---

title: Networked pest control system
abstract: A pest control device system includes a plurality of pest control devices and a data collector. The system may further include the data collector in the form of a gateway that is connected to a data management server via a computer network along with other gateways in corresponding pest control device groups. Each pest control device includes a pest sensor and a wireless communication circuit to transmit information from the corresponding sensor. The devices also configure to define a local wireless communication network that can relay the information from one to the next and ultimately to the data collector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542835&OS=09542835&RS=09542835
owner: Dow AgroSciences LLC
number: 09542835
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140721
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 213 153 entitled NETWORKED PEST CONTROL SYSTEM filed on Aug. 19 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 830 071 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 584 581 entitled NETWORKED PEST CONTROL SYSTEM filed on Sep. 8 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 026 822 which claimed the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 191 461 filed on Sep. 9 2008 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to pest control and more particularly but not exclusively relates to techniques for sensing communicating storing and evaluating data from networked pest control devices.

The detection and removal of pests from areas occupied by humans livestock crops and other pest attracting areas has long been a challenge. Pests of frequent concern include various types of insects and rodents. Subterranean termites are a particularly troublesome type of pest with the potential to cause severe damage to wooden structures. Likewise other insects such as bedbugs are problematic. Additionally rodent control is often challenging. Various schemes have been proposed to eliminate these and certain other harmful pests.

Recently advances have been made to provide for the targeted delivery of pesticide chemicals only after pests have been detected. One example is the SENTRICON TERMITE COLONY ELIMINATION SYSTEM of Dow AgroSciences that has a business address of 9330 Zionsville Road Indianapolis Ind. In this system a number of stations are installed in the ground about a dwelling to be protected. A pest control service provider periodically checks the stations which can be labor intensive.

Similarly rodent traps in food processing storage facilities pharmaceutical production facilities and the like need to be routinely checked resulting in significant labor expenditures. Accordingly there is a demand for alternative pest control device monitoring techniques. Alternatively or additionally the ability to gather more comprehensive data relating to pest behavior is sought. Thus there is a continuing demand for further advancement in the area of pest control and related sensing technologies.

One embodiment of the present invention includes a unique pest control and or monitoring technique. Other embodiments include unique methods devices and systems to control pests and or monitor pest activity. Further embodiments forms objects features advantages aspects and benefits shall become apparent from the following description and drawings.

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described embodiments and any further applications of the principles of the invention as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.

One embodiment of the present application is a system that includes a data collection point and several spaced apart pest control devices. The pest control devices each include a sensor and wireless communication circuitry. At least some of the pest control devices are structured to relay information received from one or more other of the pest control devices to the data collection point. In one form the data collection point is in communication with a remotely located data management server via a computer network. Alternatively or additionally the data collection point can be a form of gateway structured to collect information from each control device and communicate it to a remote destination.

Pest control monitoring arrangement includes a number of pest control device groups that each may be installed at a different location to monitor control one or more types of pests of interest. Each pest control device group includes a pest control data collector in a communication gateway and several pest control devices . Gateway interfaces with server via computer network and interfaces with pest control devices via wireless Local Area Network LAN . Devices each include a communication node that collectively define network . Each device includes bait in the form of a pest consumable material lure attractant or the like however in other embodiments an attractant lure or other form of bait may be absent. The depicted embodiment of device further includes pest sensor .

For a given pest control device group pest control devices may be arranged to monitor protect a designated building room storage area or region from a pest of concern such as rodents termites bedbugs other troublesome insects and various pests attracted to stored grain animal feed pharmaceuticals pharmaceutical components other biologic materials or the like. Accordingly bait and sensor are selected relative to the pest type s of interest. Nonlimiting examples of various sensor and bait types for pest control devices are described in commonly owned U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 348 890 7 262 702 7 212 129 7 212 112 6 914 529 and 6 724 312 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. These patents also describe the manner in which different areas are monitored by devices employing such sensors among other things.

Node further includes power management circuitry and controller . Circuitry includes electrical power source in the form of one or more electrochemical cells or battery . Circuitry conditions and provides electrical power to node and sensor as needed.

Controller includes memory . Controller can be an electronic circuit comprised of one or more components including digital circuitry analog circuitry or both. Controller may be a software and or firmware programmable type a hardwired dedicated state machine or a combination of these. In one embodiment controller is a programmable microcontroller solid state integrated circuit that integrally includes a processing unit and memory . Nonlimiting examples include model nos. MSP430F147 and MSP430F149 provided by Texas Instruments Incorporated. Memory can be comprised of one or more components and can be of any volatile or nonvolatile type including the solid state variety the optical media variety the magnetic variety a combination of these or such different arrangement as would occur to those skilled in the art. Further more than one processing unit can be included. When multiple processing units are present controller can be arranged to distribute processing among such units and or to provide for parallel or pipelined processing if desired. Controller functions in accordance with operating logic defined by software and or firmware programming hardware or a combination of these. In one form memory stores program instructions that are executed by one or more processing units of controller to embody at least a portion of this operating logic. Alternatively or additionally memory stores data that is manipulated by the operating logic of controller . Controller can include signal conditioners signal format converters such as analog to digital and digital to analog converters limiters clamps filters dedicated timers and the like as needed to perform various operations described in the present application. Indeed in one form controller wireless communication circuitry and power management circuitry are at least partially defined by the same integrated circuit device.

Pest sensor is electrically coupled to controller to provide a corresponding signal indicative of pest presence and or activity. In one form sensor provides an electrical input to an analog to digital converter ADC included in controller . Pest sensor is associated with bait that may be of a food or other material commonly consumed by pests of interest and or a lure attractant or the like. It should be appreciated that as used herein bait may or may not include a pesticide and may or may not be intended to be more attractive to pests of interest compared to other materials in proximity. In one arrangement pest interaction with bait triggers a change in the signal sent by sensor . Typically detection is triggered by a variation in electrical current or voltage. In one form such variation results from a change in electrical conductivity resistance of one or more elements of sensor in correspondence to pest presence. Alternatively or additionally a detection signal could be generated based on electrical capacitance magnetism an acoustic characteristic or optical change just to name a few alternatives. Commonly owned. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 348 890 7 262 702 7 111 119 7 212 112 6 914 529 and 6 724 312 describe several such sensing techniques which were previously each incorporated by reference . It should be appreciated that while one pest sensor is indicated in in other arrangements multiple pest sensors may be utilized with inputs provided to controller and or a different device. Furthermore in other alternative arrangements bait may be absent.

In one implementation pest control devices are configured to operate with a standard battery power source for at least two years communicating only a relative small amount of data routinely such as an average of six times per day with a transmission distance minimum of about 10 meters under very poor conditions and greater than 100 meters under favorable conditions. Nonetheless in other arrangements any or all of these aspects could vary. In typical termite applications pest control device takes the form of an in ground station with an electrically conductive pathway that is altered by termite consumption or displacement to trigger detection. With this arrangement pesticide may not be delivered until termite presence is verified although immediate pesticide application and or above ground monitoring may be utilized additionally or alternatively. Some rodent applications tend to favor extermination upon detection using a pesticide mechanical force and or electrocution.

In one example a form of pest control device that integrates sensor with snap type of rodent trap where like reference numerals refer to like features previously described. In this arrangement sensor more specifically includes a flexible detection member with an electrical resistance that varies depending on the degree of its mechanical deflection flexure. Trap includes a base housing that is pivotally coupled to spring . Spring is held in place by trap pin as shown in . In this configuration if a rodent applies sufficient downward pressure on bait plate pin is displaced and spring is released to pen the rodent between the spring and base housing . Correspondingly the deflection of member changes in response to the displacement of pin causing a change in its electrical resistance. Member is electrically coupled to circuitry to provide a corresponding signal indicative of the triggering of the trap and rodent detection. Circuitry resides in chamber defined by base housing . Alternatively or additionally rodent and or other pest control devices may include a pressure sensitive pad to detect presence. Further it should be appreciated that while pest presence is typically the detection goal any activity actuation of sensor may be of interest for a given pest control scheme.

Returning to circuitry further includes temperature sensor coupled to controller which without limitation could be a thermistor a thermocouple or the like that provides an analog input to an ADC unit within controller . In other embodiments a moisture sensor may be included in addition to or in lieu of temperature sensor . In still other embodiments neither of these sensor types is present. Also included in circuitry is an operator activated switch of a magnetic form comprised of a magnetically responsive component such as a hall effect device or magnetoresistor to name a couple of nonlimiting examples and an indicator both of which are also coupled to controller . Switch is arranged to respond to a magnetic field when magnetic field source is in close proximity thereto. In one form magnetic field source is provided in the form of a hand held wand . Indicator includes two Light Emitting Diodes LEDs and each of a different color. In one particular nonlimiting example one of LEDs and is red while the other of LEDs and is green. The operation of these features is further described hereinafter in connection with however further aspects to gateway are first described in connection with . In other embodiments switch may be of a mechanical variety such as a pushbutton rotary slider or toggle type a capacitive proximity type an optic type or a thermally activated type just to name a few possibilities. In one nonlimiting alternative rodent trap activation was demonstrated with a pushbutton form of switch.

Referring to gateway is further depicted where like reference numerals refer to like features previously described. Gateway includes controller with memory . Gateway further includes a wireless network interface with antenna to communicate with the wireless communication network as defined by a corresponding pest control group and modem with antenna to interface with a wireless WAN network . In one nonlimiting form controller is a general purpose laptop or personal computer running an application to define a communication gateway interface is of a local area network LAN type and modem utilizes General Packet Radio Service GPRS through the Global System for Mobile communications GSM protocol. It should be appreciated that in alternative embodiments controller interface and or modem may differ. In one such alternative in which gateway directly interfaces with internet controller is of a microcontroller type such as model no. C805F120 provided by Cygnal Technologies interface is a 25 milliWatt mW WAVENIS compatible wavecard provided by Coronis Systems and modem is of a hardwired dial up and or coaxial cable type not shown .

Having generally described the structural and functional aspects of group further details regarding its operation are next described. Initially pest control devices of a respective group are installed to protect the building area of interest which includes physically positioning each of pest control devices and establishing wireless network . depicts one mode of establishing network in flowchart form as network installation procedure where like reference numerals refer to like features previously described. Procedure can be implemented in accordance with operating logic executed by controller of at least some of the pest control devices and gateway for the respective group . Procedure logically associates each node with a corresponding gateway . During procedure each node attempts to establish a reliable communications path to the respective gateway either directly or by relaying its messages through one or more other nodes of the same group and provides the installer feedback concerning its success or failure in finding a reliable communications path. Specifically in operation a selected node is activated. For the magnetically responsive component form of switch a magnetic field from source is placed in close proximity. In response switch changes state and triggers network establishment for such selected node . In an alternative implementation an operator triggers node network installation activation by applying force to a mechanical form of switch such as pushing a momentary pushbutton switch type.

In response to node activation in operation procedure continues with operation . In operation the selected node executes a search routine to identify a reliable communication path to its corresponding gateway . This routine is typically defined by operating logic executed by controller of the selected node. In one implementation this routine is at least partially provided in the form of firmware instructions stored in memory and uses a SEARCH REQUEST function included in the Service Discovery Protocol SDP code library. This function can operate with a variety of criteria for the requested search including a Class of Device COD code identifying the specific gateway to which connection is desired quality of service QoS criteria based on signal strength or the like and criteria controlling the preferred method of making the connection either directly to gateway or through one or more other nodes of its pest control device group . As establishment of a communication pathway is attempted indicator provides an output reflecting this status. In one form this output includes LEDs and both blinking at approximately a 10 Hertz Hz rate however other outputs and or no output may be provided in correspondence to operation in other embodiments.

Operation first attempts to find a direct communications path with the corresponding gateway provided is meets specified quality of service QoS criteria such as signal strength. If a direct path meeting the search criteria is not found then operation attempts to find a communications path to gateway through other nearby nodes that have already gone through the network installation procedure if any . The criteria for these indirect communication paths can be different than those for direct connections and take into account in addition to signal strength how many hops are required and or how many other devices might already be routed through a given node operating as a repeater. In some implementations a limit may be set on the number of communication hops required to reach the corresponding gateway a limit may be set on the number of relaying repeating nodes involved in a given communication pathway and or a limit may be set on how may nodes depend on a specific node to relay communication.

Procedure continues with conditional that tests whether the desired communication path has been established. If the test of conditional is affirmative yes data designating the communication path is stored and a success code is returned reflecting that a direct or indirect path meeting the search criteria has been found. Further using the identified communication path the selected node communicates a unique identifier such as a unique multibit identification code to its corresponding gateway of the same group . Procedure continues with operation to provide an output indicating success with indicator . In one form this output includes illuminating one of LEDs or such as a green LED for a specified period of time such as 10 seconds for example . From operation procedure continues with conditional to determine if there are any more nodes to install. If not then procedure halts. If there are further nodes to install procedure returns to operation to select and activate the next node for network installation.

On the other hand if all attempts to find a communications path meeting the criteria are not successful operation returns a failure code and the test of conditional is negative no . From the negative branch of conditional operation is performed in which indicator provides an operator output reflecting this negative failure status. In one form this output includes illuminating one of LEDs or different than for operation such as a red LED for a specified period of time such as 10 seconds for example .

Procedure proceeds from operation to operation . In operation the operator installs one or more other nodes to serve as repeaters and or repositions the selected node to provide better conditions for network establishment. It should be appreciated that the successful installation of any other node during operation includes the repetition of operations and and conditionals and for each and likewise any that were not successful would result in execution of operations conditional . After operation conditional is reached. Conditional tests whether the node that failed initialization should be reactivated for another attempt. Ordinarily this test would be affirmative yes causing procedure to return to operation to reactivate it however under certain circumstances it may be determined to abort installation of a given node . Such circumstances may include several failed attempts to install or the successful installation of the desired number and or arrangement of nodes already such that the failed node need not be installed. In this case the test of conditional is negative no and procedure halts.

Once network is established each pest control device and gateway perform certain operations on a routine basis. In one embodiment each node participating in network has a low power consumption sleep mode and at least one awake mode. For one form the sleep mode is performed based on an internal sleep timer provided by controller that allows the node to significantly reduce its power consumption during idle periods and accordingly enables longer service life. For such a sleep mode the transceiver and or other peripherals are typically turned off to conserve power.

After a designated time period has passed during sleep mode a wake up is triggered. In one form a sleep timer is programmed to wake up controller every 100 milliseconds 10 times per second and the operating logic as defined at least in part by controller firmware is divided into time based tasks some of which are executed every wakeup period 100 milliseconds and others that are executed every tenth wakeup 1 second .

For this arrangement the 100 millisecond tasks include sensor signal measurements and evaluation of such signals for possible action. In one particular variation node includes an internal multi channel 12 bit A D converter for measuring analog signals from external sources over three different channels. One channel is used for pest sensor input a second channel is used for temperature sensor input and a third channel is connected to battery to report on its status. The resulting digital values are stored in memory and are compared against designated limits for LOW FAULT LOW ALARM LOW WARNING HIGH WARNING HIGH ALARM and HIGH FAULT conditions. If any FAULT WARNING or ALARM condition is detected an event message is provided for transmission to gateway indicating the affected channel source condition FAULT WARNING or ALARM and the measured value. Any or all of these condition tests may be optionally disabled. Hysteresis can be applied to the condition tests to prevent multiple event messages from being prepared and transmitted during the pendency of the condition. Further pest sensor input may be processed as needed to reduce the likelihood of an undesired outcome due to noise activity of a nontargeted pest in the vicinity of the sensor or slow gradual changes with temperature. These type of adjustments may be particularly desirable for a flexible resistance type sensor like that is associated with trap .

In one implementation directed specifically to a flex varying electrical resistance rodent sensor as provided with trap the rodent sensor signal value is exponentially smoothed using smoothing constants of 1 32 and 31 32 in accordance with equation 1 as follows NewSmoothedValue 1 32 NewSample 31 32 OldSmoothedValue 1 The operating logic computes the absolute value of the difference of the NewSample and OldSmoothedValue according to equation 2 as follows DIFF ABS NewSample OldSmoothedValue 2 DIFF is then compared against a programmable threshold value. If DIFF exceeds the threshold value the sensor is determined to be active and a hit is registered by incrementing the value of a HIT COUNTER maintained by the operating logic. If DIFF does not exceed the threshold value the HIT COUNTER is decremented until it reaches a terminal value of zero. Further for this implementation operating logic of controller maintains a 6.4 second sliding time aperture over which the value of HIT COUNTER is examined. If HIT COUNTER exceeds a programmable threshold any time within this sliding 6.4 second interval the operating logic interprets the condition as a rodent hit and it prepares an event message for transmission indicating the active condition. By adjusting the programmable thresholds for DIFF and HIT COUNTER terminal values this approach adjusts sensitivity of the rodent sensor reducing false alarms and ensuring that true active conditions are detected and acted upon.

In addition to sensor signal processing the 100 millisecond wake up can also be used to scan for switch activation and to provide for a blinking pattern of LED and or as desired.

A previously indicated this embodiment includes another wake up mode for less frequently performed tasks. These tasks may include management of transceiver and processing of inbound and outbound messages over the wireless communication path to gateway . Accordingly controller directs that receiver listen for any possible transmissions from gateway or other nodes within communications range. Gateway either directly or by routing its message through other nodes may request status information of the subject node by issuing a POLL REQUEST. If a valid POLL REQUEST is received controller prepares and sends a response packet including information about the operating status and sensor condition of the subject node via transmitter . Such tasks further include a determination of whether the subject node is being asked by a neighboring node to relay a message according to routes established during installation of network . If such a request is made controller prepares and transmits the relay message via transceiver . In addition on this less frequent basis any event messages prepared during the more frequently performed tasks are sent via transmitter and network maintenance repair operations may be performed as further described hereinafter.

The operating logic of node further includes a technique to re form communications paths that become unreliable or unusable. To the extent needed such self healing may be performed on a less frequent basis every second for example . Self healing may occur due to the removal or failure of a relaying node in an established path or the introduction of an obstruction. In one implementation node determines the need to self heal its communication path by maintaining a timer that is reset upon the receipt of a valid POLL REQUEST message from the corresponding gateway . The value of this timer is tested against a threshold value. If the timer reaches this threshold the subject node communication path is deemed to be lost and a re installation process is performed. This reinstallation is like that described in connection with procedure of starting with operation except that operator activation of switch is not necessary to perform path re establishment and reinstallation may be repeated a given number of times before declaring failure. In one example the subject node retries installation up to 3 more times at an interval equal to the programmable threshold value for the POLL REQUEST timer before declaring a failure.

For scheduled maintenance actions an operator activated switch can be used to cause the subject node to prepare and transmit a message to gateway indicating that it is being removed from service. In response the gateway removes the node s unique ID from its database of active nodes to halt subsequent polling. It should be appreciated that switch could be used to signal removal if activated after successful addition to network is indicated and or by repeated actuation such that repeated actuation within a given time period toggles between a network install and node removal or the like. Alternatively a additional switch or other activation device may be utilized not shown . Further it should be appreciated that in other embodiments node may include more or fewer waking task modes with or without different frequencies durations or the like may not have distinct sleep and wake modes may alternatively or additionally be responsive to periodic or aperiodic polling inputs and or interrupt type triggers to perform at least some tasks and or may perform more fewer or different tasks as required. Additionally or alternatively network may be at least partly predefined rather than node determined may not include some or all of operator indicators may not be self healing and or may not provide for node removal.

In one alternative certain nodes are transmit only types that send sensor signals to other nodes capable of receiving and transmitting. Such other nodes may be dedicated communication routers with different sensing functionality than the transmit only nodes such as less no sensing capability . For this alternative these routers form a communication backbone between the remaining nodes and gateway .

Having described the operation of nodes in greater detail the complimentary operations of gateway for each group are next set forth. Gateway serves as a data collector in which status and event information from communicating nodes is gathered. Gateway communicates this information to centrally located data management server hosting database . Server provides for data visualization analysis reporting and notification applications as further described in connection with . For the depicted embodiment communications between gateway and nodes of a given group take place via a wireless local area network and between gateway and server via a wireless wide area network WAN using Internet Protocol IP over General Packet Radio Service GPRS . Alternatively hardwired telephone and or fiber or coaxial cable connection could be used to interface gateway to a computer network connection with server and or other protocols and communication subsystems may be utilized.

Gateway communications may be of a routine periodically scheduled type or of an event condition driven type. Additionally customer or administrator initiated queries or updates may be delivered to nodes . In one implementation downlink communications from server to gateway utilize User Datagram Protocol UDP and uplink communications from gateway to server utilize File Transfer Protocol FTP . Further this nonlimiting implementation provides operating logic for gateway as a collection of software tasks written in C under the Microsoft Windows XP multithreading environment provided by Windows XP and the NET Framework. A description of several exemplary tasks for this implementation are described as follows 

Referring to the back end data management server is further depicted in diagrammatic form. Server provides various virtual logical components to allow sensor and node information from geographically disbursed gateways to be aggregated into database . Server has the ability to communicate with all remote pest control device groups evaluate resulting data and take corresponding actions using an Application Service Provider ASP model. Among other things server collects the information from the various sites groups aggregates and processes this information and determines what information needs to be forwarded to a customer. In addition server facilitates a data archive notification and reporting process. Selected server functional components as defined by software or other operating logic executed by server are listed as follows 

Once an on site technician installs all the nodes for a given gateway the site installation and configuration data is received by server from the gateway . The data is then parsed at server and stored in database . If a change to the configuration is necessary the stored configuration data is modified and sent to the gateway . Gateway will then retrieve this data and compare the modifications to implement any changes. Server regularly receives event and sensor data from the gateway of each group and stores the values in the database. As new events take place at sensors the corresponding data is sent to server that performs notification services via module to those recipients that have subscribed to the information. On a periodic basis such as once a week reports on trap activity and battery levels are also dispatched to recipients utilizing reporting services module .

Once sensor and node information is uploaded to server it is available to the customer. Several methods are available for the customer to retrieve this information depending on specified criteria subscription level and the nature of subsequent management action. Clients see embody several customer interface options.

In one form a password protected web portal is provided to customers where they may log in to observe their corresponding sites groups generate reports with reporting services module and observe the current status or summaries of recent events through a dashboard type of view. For those sensors which by either its nature say a moisture sensor or customer interest say a rodent station in food processing facility require that event notification be nearly instantaneous customers may choose to have notifications sent via e mail text message fax or phone message via clients and or for example . This alarm process can be managed interactively by responding to a server generated email or SMS communication or by logging into the secure web portal. In contrast to such event driven communications for sensors where the information is more routine say exterior rodent termite bait stations customers may choose to have summary reports delivered through spreadsheet reports or physical mailings on a scheduled basis. In one form customer reports of site activity are customized to include customer requested information on a requested schedule. Parameters governing how system reacts to collected sensor information can be selected and set by the customers through a web interface. Such parameters include the time frame for notifications of a given sensor type the delivery mechanism of any alerts the scheduling of site status reports etc. These may be updated and changed at any time by the customer. If an application is such that and action may be taken without direct human presence intervention such as flipping a switch the system is capable of initiating such action as specified by customer need. For business systems that rely on the site data for billing and or supervisory information the data can be presented in a transport that allows integration into a customer business system.

Many further embodiments of the present application are envisioned. For example one further embodiment includes operating a pest control system including a plurality of pest control devices and a data collector the pest control devices each including a respective pest attractant a respective sensor and a respective wireless communication circuit wirelessly transmitting sensor information from the respective sensor of a first one of the pest control devices to a second one of the pest control devices and wirelessly relaying the sensor information from the second one of the pest control devices to the data collector.

A further embodiment includes a pest control system with a plurality of pest control devices and a data collector. The pest control devices each include a respective sensor and a respective wireless communication circuit. The system further includes means for wirelessly transmitting sensor information from the respective sensor of the first one of the pest control devices to a second one of the pest control devices and means for wirelessly providing the sensor information from the second one of the pest control devices to the data collector.

Another embodiment comprises providing a pest control system including a data collector and several pest control devices that each include a respective sensor and a respective wireless communication circuit activating a network installation mode of operation of a selected one of the pest control devices attempting to establish a wireless communication link with a pest control system communication network during the network installation mode providing a first type of output to an operator if the wireless communication link is established and providing a second type of output to the operator if the wireless communication link is not established.

Still another embodiment includes a pest control system with a data collector and several pest control devices that each include a respective sensor and a respective wireless communication circuit. Also included are means for applying the magnetic field proximate to a selected one of the pest control devices means for attempting to establish a wireless communication link with a pest control system communication network in response to the magnetic field means for providing a first type of output to an operator if the wireless communication link is established and means for providing a second type of output to the operator if the wireless communication link is not established.

Yet a further embodiment is directed to a pest control device that includes a pest sensor operable to provide one or more signals representative of pest detection and circuitry with a wireless communication transceiver coupled to the pest sensor to transmit information corresponding to the pest detection. This circuitry further includes a component responsive to a magnetic field proximate to the pest control device to operate the transceiver in an installation mode and a controller to execute operating logic to establish a wireless communication link with one or more devices during the installation mode. Also included is an indicator coupled to the circuitry to provide a first operator output indicative of establishment of the wireless communication link if the attempt succeeds and the second operator output indicative of failure to establish the wireless communication link.

A further embodiment includes the first pest control device group including a plurality of wireless communication nodes that are each provided with a corresponding pest sensor and a first gateway to receive sensor data from the corresponding sensor of each of the wireless communication nodes. One or more of the wireless communication nodes includes the respective controller operating logic to define wireless communication network between the wireless communication nodes. The wireless communication network includes a first subset of the node to relay sensor information to the first gateway from a second subset of the node.

Any theory mechanism of operation proof or finding stated herein is meant to further enhance understanding of the present application and is not intended to make the present application in any way dependent upon such theory mechanism of operation proof or finding. It should be understood that any use of the word preferable preferably or preferred in the description above indicates that the feature so described may be more desirable it nonetheless may not be necessary and embodiments lacking the same may be contemplated as within the scope of the invention that scope being defined by the claims that follow. In reading the claims it is intended that when words such as a an at least one at least a portion are used there is no intention to limit the claim to only one item unless specifically stated to the contrary in the claim. Further when the language at least a portion and or a portion is used the item may include a portion and or the entire item unless specifically stated to the contrary. While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character it being understood that only the selected embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes modifications and equivalents that come within the spirit of the invention as defined herein or by any of the following claims are desired to be protected.

