---

title: Systems and methods providing parameters for modifying a font
abstract: Media devices display content with fonts that contain sets of glyphs such as letters. Described herein are systems, devices, and methods for providing parameters for modifying a font. The modification of the font may increase readability for users of the media devices. The parameters may be determined based on at least one of an analysis of the content or an analysis of existing fonts and modifications already made to the existing fonts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146907&OS=09146907&RS=09146907
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09146907
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140319
---
Media devices may display different fonts including glyphs having certain styles and sizes. The glyphs may be designed having certain features such as heights widths slants weights and so forth. For some users of the media devices e.g. users having dyslexia low vision and so forth certain glyphs may result in poor readability and legibility. Various factors such as the design features and the arrangement of the glyphs may decrease readability and legibility of text.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Media devices may display different fonts that include glyphs displayed with certain styles and sizes. The glyphs may be designed having certain features such as heights widths slants weights and so forth. For some users of the media devices e.g. users having dyslexia certain glyphs may result in poor readability and legibility. For example certain letters may look similar such as the letter j and the letter i or the letter h and the letter n . The position of glyphs relative to one another may also decrease readability. For example some users may confuse the letters rn as an m . This disclosure describes systems and methods for modifying glyphs to increase readability and legibility.

The system may include one or more servers communicatively connected to one or more media devices. The media devices may include televisions set top boxes tablet computers personal computers gaming consoles in vehicle entertainment systems portable media players and so forth. The media devices may be configured to present content that may include font data electronic book data audio data video data application data game data and so forth.

The server may be configured to access content. In one example the server accesses the content once a publisher uploads an electronic book to the server. The font data of the electronic book may include glyphs expressed as signs symbols phonemes numbers or letters. The glyphs may have shapes and may be positioned at distances relative to one another. The glyphs may comprise various scripts. For example the glyphs may comprise at least one of Arabic Chinese Cyrillic Devanagari Greek Hebrew Japanese Korean Latin Malay Tamil Telugu Thai or Urdu script.

The server may generate parameter data comprising parameters used to modify the glyphs of the content. The parameter data may include one or more parameters stored in a parameter table. The media device may use one or more parameters to modify one or more glyphs.

A parameter datastore may be configured to store different parameter data used with different content. The parameter datastore may comprise a data structure which is stored on one or more memory devices. The server may or may not include the parameter datastore.

The server may be configured to generate the parameter data by analyzing base content. The base content may comprise text data such as an electronic book. The text of the electronic book may be described as base glyphs expressed as signs symbols or letters. The server may receive the base content data in response to a publisher uploading the electronic book to the server. In some implementations the base content data may comprise other data such as audio data video data application data game data and so forth. A base content datastore may be configured to store different base content data. The base content datastore may comprise a data structure which is stored on one or more memory devices. The server may or may not include the base content datastore.

The base content data may include base font data and customized font data. The base font data may comprise information causing the base glyphs to be displayed with a first font and the customized font data may comprise information causing the base glyphs to be displayed with a customized font. The customized font may be designed by a font designer. In one example for a particular base content data the base font data may cause the letter O to be displayed having a first width and the customized font data may cause the letter O to be displayed having a second width. In another example the base font data may cause a first letter to be positioned at a first distance from a second letter and the customized font data may cause the first letter to be positioned at a second larger distance from the second letter.

The server may generate the parameter data by analyzing the base content data. Analyzing the base content data may include determining the differences between the base glyphs of the base font content and the glyphs of the customized font data. A comparison of these glyphs may indicate various differences such as differences in the outline of a glyph differences in the color of the glyphs differences in the orientation of the glyphs and so forth. The parameter data may comprise information that when applied to content causes the content to change. For example the application of first parameter data may cause the letter j to be displayed at an angle when compared with the display of the letter j when the first parameter data is not applied. For some users displaying the letter j at an angle may improve readability because it may be easier for the users to distinguish the letter j at an angle from the letter i .

The server may be configured to generate processed content. The processed content may comprise a particular content e.g. a particular electronic book and particular parameter data. The generation of the processed content may include selecting certain parameter data from the parameter datastore. The selection of the parameter data may be based on a comparison of a particular piece of content with the base content data stored in the base content datastore. In one example the server selects first parameter data in response to a determination that the glyphs of a particular content match or substantially match a set of base glyphs of a particular base content. For example the outline of one or more content glyphs of the content may match the outline of one or more base glyphs of the base content data.

Once the processed content is generated for a particular content the server may store the processed content. In one example the server stores the processed content in a datastore configured to store different processed content. The server may physically incorporate the database or the database may be externally placed. In one example the server provides a particular processed content to the media device in response to receiving from the media device a request for a particular electronic book.

The server may be configured to provide the processed content to one or more media devices. The server may provide the processed content to a particular media device in response to receiving a request from the media device.

The media device is configured to present content. Once the media device receives the processed content the media device may present the content or the modified content. The media device may generate modified content by applying the parameter data to the content. The application of the parameters to the content may cause the presentation of the content to change in various ways. For example the outline of glyphs may change the colors of the glyphs may change the orientation of the glyphs may change and so forth.

Modifying features of fonts may improve the reading experience for users such as dyslexic readers. By analyzing the content and generating parameter data for the content users of the media devices may view modified content which may improve readability of the content.

The media devices may include a variety of devices such as a mobile digital device a smartphone a tablet computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a television an electronic book eBook reader a gaming console a set top box a media player an in vehicle communication system a wearable computing device and so forth. The media device includes or is communicatively coupled to one or more display output devices suitable for presenting content such as an electronic book.

The media device may be coupled to a remote control using a communication link. The remote control may serve as an input device or input output device for the media device . For example the remote control may include one or more of a touch sensor button accelerometer gyroscope camera microphone speaker haptic output device and so forth. The communication link may be optical radio frequency acoustic and so forth. In one implementation the communication link may use a personal area network interface such as one compliant with the Bluetooth specification. In some implementations the remote control may comprise another device such as a smartphone tablet computer and so forth which is communicatively coupled to the media device .

A user is depicted with the media device . While a single user and a single media device are shown more than one user may consume the content at a given time such as where multiple users are reading an electronic document together.

The server may be communicatively connected with the media device using a network . The network may include a variety of networks such as a local network a wide area network WAN broadcast network a personal area network a wired and wireless local area network LAN and so forth. In some implementations the network includes at least one of Ethernet Wi Fi as promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance 3G and 4G Bluetooth as promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so forth. In some implementations the devices and systems described herein are configured to directly connect to each other. The system may include additional servers not shown which communicate with one or more media devices .

The content may comprise electronic book data. The content may include font data that includes glyphs expressed as signs symbols or letters. In the example depicted in the content includes four glyphs that spell the word jump. The word jump may be one word from an electronic book including a relatively large amount of words. The server may be configured to receive electronic books from publishers by enabling publishers to upload the electronics books. In some implementations the content includes other data such as at least one of audio data video data application data game data and so forth.

The server may include a parameter generation module configured to generate parameter data . The parameter data may comprise parameters that are used by the media device to modify the presentation of the content . As described in more detail below with regard to the parameter data may include a parameter table having multiple parameters used to modify one or more glyphs . The parameter data . . . P may be stored in a parameter datastore . As used in this disclosure letters in parenthesis such as P indicate an integer value. The parameter datastore may comprise a data structure which is stored on one or more memory devices. The parameter datastore may be physically incorporated with the server or externally placed.

The server may include a base content datastore configured to store base content . . . B . The base content may comprise electronic book data audio data video data application data game data and so forth. In one example the base content comprises an electronic book. The text of the electronic book may be described as glyphs expressed as signs symbols or letters. The base content may be received in response to a publisher uploading electronic books.

The glyphs included in the base content may be displayed using different fonts. For example the base content may include base font data comprising information causing the glyphs to be expressed using a first font and customized font data comprising information causing the glyphs to be expressed using a second font. For example for width of a glyph O the base font data may cause a lower portion of the glyph O to have a first thickness and the customized font data may cause the lower portion of width of the glyph O to have a second larger thickness.

In the example depicted in the base font data includes three base glyphs that spell the word jam . The word jam may be one word from an electronic book including a relatively large amount of words. The customized font data includes glyphs that include at least one customized glyph . In this example the customized glyph is depicted as the letter j . When compared with the letter j of the base glyphs the customized glyph is depicted as being slanted and made bold. In this example the letter j may have been customized by a font designer to emphasize the difference between the letter j and the letter i . The font designer may customize the letter j because some users e.g. users with dyslexia may have difficultly interpreting the difference between the letter j and the letter i .

While the customization of the base glyph described above included rotating and bolding the glyph the base glyphs may be customized in various other ways. For example a comparison of the base glyphs and the customized glyphs may indicate various changes in the outline of a glyph changes in the spacing between the glyphs changes in the color of the glyphs and so forth.

The parameter generation module may generate the parameter data by analyzing the base content . Analyzing the base content may include comparing the base glyphs with the customized glyphs . For example an analysis of the base content may indicate that the letter j has been customized such that each occurrence of the letter j is displayed having a rotation and having a bold font when compared to the letter j of the base glyphs . The parameter data may comprise information that when applied to the letter j causes each j to be rotated and displayed using bold font.

The server may include a content analysis module configured to generate processed content . The processed content may comprise the content and one or more parameter data . As described in more detail below the media device may use the processed content to generate modified content .

The generation of the processed content may include selecting one or more of the parameter data . . . P . The selection of the parameter data may be based on a comparison of the content with the base content . . . B . In one example the content analysis module selects the parameter data in response to a determination that the glyphs of the content match or substantially match a set of base glyphs of a particular base content . For example the outline of a glyph may match the outline of a base glyph .

Once the processed content is generated for a particular content the server may store the processed content in for example a database configured to store different processed content . The server may physically incorporate the database or the database may be externally placed.

The server may provide the processed content to one or more media devices using the network . In one example the server provides the processed content to the media device in response to receiving from the media device a request for a particular electronic book. The media device may include a user interface module configured to provide a user interface to the user or to the media device . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the users . In another implementation the user interface may comprise an application programming interface API which enables communication such as sending requests for content from the media device to the server .

The media device may include a presentation module configured to present content or the modified content on or in conjunction with the media device . The presentation module may be configured to receive the processed content from an external source device such as the server another media device and so forth. The presentation module may support digital rights management presentation of encrypted content and so forth. The presentation module may be configured to work in conjunction with the user interface module to allow the user to control presentation of the content or the modified content .

The presentation module may be configured to generate the modified content . The modified content may comprise modified electronic book data. The text of the electronic book data may include one or more modified glyphs expressed as signs symbols or letters. In some implementations the modified content includes other data such as audio data video data application data game data and so forth.

In the example depicted in the modified content includes at least one modified glyph . In this example the modified glyph is depicted as the letter j . When compared with the letter j of the glyphs of the content the modified glyph is depicted as being rotated and having a bold font applied.

In some implementations the presentation module may generate the modified content by applying the parameter data to the content . Continuing with the example as discussed above the parameter data may comprise information which when applied to the content causes each j glyph to be rotated and made bold. As depicted in the glyph j depicted in the word jam has been rotated and made bold.

The user interface module may enable the user to select whether to cause the media device to display the glyphs of the content or display the modified glyphs . While the modified glyph is depicted as the letter j being rotated and made bold the modified glyphs may be modified in various other ways. For example the application of the parameter data to the content may cause the glyphs of the content to displayed such that the outline of the glyphs is changed the spacing between the glyphs is changed the color of the glyphs is changed and so forth.

The base font data includes base glyphs . The base glyphs have a first font. The base font data may include other data such as printer font information used by one or more computing devices when printing the base glyphs .

The customized font data includes customized glyphs . When compared to the base glyphs the customized glyphs are different. For example the letters p h d and b are more darkened and are larger when compared to the base glyphs . In addition the first letter of each sentence is more darkened and larger when compared to the base glyphs . The customized font data may include other data such as printer font information used by one or more computing devices when printing the customized glyphs .

The parameter data includes a parameter table that stores data that may be visualized as being organized in columns and rows. The parameter table includes at least the following two field names description and parameters . The description describes the glyphs that the parameters modify. For example the parameters of the first row i.e. and may be applied to the letter h causing some type of modification to the letter h . As described above the application of the parameters may cause various changes such as a change in the shape of a glyph a change in the orientation a change in the spacing between glyphs and so forth. The second row of the parameter table includes the description j slant . This description may indicate that the application of the parameters 0 and 2 may modify the angle or orientation of the letter j . The fourth row of the parameter table includes the description Fo kerning . This description may indicate that the application of the parameters 3 and 2 may modify the spacing between the glyphs F and o . The parameters shown in the parameter table may be described as values. Parameters or values may be expressed as a dimensionless scaled number such as between 1 and 1000.

The parameter data includes at least one parameter used to modify a particular glyph or set of glyphs . For example as depicted in the first row of the parameter table a first parameter having a value of 1 and a second parameter having a value of 5 may be used by the media device to modify the glyph that includes h . The first parameter may be used to extend the line portion of the h and the second parameter may be used to increase the width or thickness of the h . The second row of the parameter table depicts a parameter having a value of 0 and a parameter having a value of 2 . The media device may apply these parameters to the glyph that includes the letter j for modification.

The content includes glyphs . The content may include other data such as video data audio data or printer font information used by one or more computing devices when printing the glyphs . The modified content includes modified glyphs . When compared to the glyphs the modified glyphs are different. For example the letters p h d and b are more darkened and are larger when compared to the base glyphs . In addition the first letter of each sentence is more darkened and larger when compared to the base glyphs . The modified content may include other data such as printer font information used by one or more computing devices when printing the modified glyphs .

The presentation module may apply the parameters to the glyphs to generate the modified glyphs . While in this example parameters from the parameter data are applied to the glyphs of the content in other implementations more than one parameter data e.g. parameter data may be applied to the glyphs to generate the modified glyphs .

The server may include at least one hardware processor or processor configured to execute stored instructions. The at least one hardware processor may comprise one or more cores.

The server includes at least one I O interface which enables portions of the server e.g. the hardware processor to communicate with other devices. The I O interface may be configured to implement various protocols such as inter integrated circuit I2C serial peripheral interface bus SPI Universal Serial Bus USB RS 232 HDMI TOSLINK Bluetooth and so forth. The at least one I O interface may be operatively connected to at least one I O device . In some implementations certain I O devices are physically incorporated with the server or externally placed.

The at least one I O interface may be operatively connected to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a keyboard a touch sensor and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display printer and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the server or may be externally placed and communicatively coupled thereto.

The server may include at least one communication interface . The communication interface may be configured to provide communications between the server and other devices such as the media device routers access points other servers and so forth. The communication interface may include an Ethernet interface which connects to the network .

The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

As illustrated in the server may include at least one memory or memory device . The memory may include at least one non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may include at least one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium or a mechanical computer storage medium. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module may be configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interface the I O devices the communication interface and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the hardware processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules which may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

The memory may include a user interface module configured to provide a user interface to the user or to the media device . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the users . In another implementation the user interface may comprise an application programming interface API which enables communication such as sending requests for content from the media device to the server .

As described above the parameter generation module may be configured to generate the parameter data . The parameter generation module may generate the parameter data based on an analysis of base content . The parameter data may be generated based on a comparison of multiple sets of base content . For example a first base content may include first base font data and first customized font data and a second base content may include second base font data and second customized font data . The parameter generation module may determine first differences between the first base font data and the first customized font data and second differences between the second base font data and the second customized font data . The differences may include various differences such as differences in outlines between the glyphs differences in color between the glyphs differences in spacing between the glyphs and so forth. Based on the first differences and the second differences the parameter generation module may generate parameter data that when applied to the glyphs of the content may cause the same or similar changes to the glyphs of the content .

As described above the content analysis module may generate the processed content . The generation of the processed content may include combining the content with one or more selections of the parameter data . . . P . The selection of the parameter data may be based on a comparison of the content with the base content . . . B . In one example the content analysis module selects the parameter data in response to a determination that the glyphs of the content match or substantially match a set of base glyphs of a particular base content . For example the outline of a glyph may match the outline of a base glyph . Once a match has been determined the content analysis module may query the parameter datastore for the parameter data that is associated with or has been generated based on the base font data that has been determined to match or substantially match.

The server may include a communication module configured to establish and support communications with the media device or other devices. For example the communication module may execute instructions which support transmission of data across a data network using the transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP .

A delivery module may be configured to provide the processed content to one or more of the media devices . Providing the processed content may be initiated by a request from the media device by the server or by another device. In some implementations the delivery module is configured to provide the content and the parameter data separately.

The memory may include other modules . For example an authentication module may be configured to authorize delivery of the content to a particular media device .

In some implementations the memory includes a datastore for storing information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion thereof may be distributed across at least one other device such as a server a network storage device and so forth. As illustrated in the datastore may include at least one of the content the parameter datastore the base content datastore the processed content demographic data configuration data or alert data . The datastore may include the other data which may include information such as administrator preferences account information associated with the user and so forth.

The demographic data may include data which may indicate at least one of the age of the user the address of the user the gender of the user the ethnicity of the user the nationality of the user or the knowledge of languages of the user . In some implementations the content analysis module uses the demographic data as an input to select one or more parameter data . For example first parameter data may have been generated for children. If the user is a child the content analysis module may select the first parameter data and provide the first parameter data to the media device .

The configuration data may comprise information about a user selection. For example the user may operate with the user interface module and enter a request for one or more glyphs to be modified or to not be modified. The parameter data that is applied to the content may cause the first letter of each sentence to be displayed in bold. However the user may dislike this application and send a request to the server indicating that the user prefers for this application to end. The server may then provide different parameter data to the media device resulting in the termination of the application of parameters for purposes of bolding the first letter of each sentence.

The alert data may comprise information about the application of the parameter data to the glyphs . For example the alert data may indicate that the application of the parameter data to one or more glyphs results in an increase in surface area of the glyphs at or above a threshold level. The alert data is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The media device includes at least one I O interface which enables portions of the media device e.g. the hardware processor to communicate with other devices. The I O interface may be configured to implement various protocols such as I2C SPI USB RS 232 HDMI TOSLINK Bluetooth and so forth. The at least one I O interface may be operatively connected to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a keyboard a touch sensor and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display printer and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the media device or may be externally placed and communicatively coupled thereto.

The media device may also include at least one communication interface . The at least one communication interface may be configured to provide communications between the media device and other devices such as the server routers access points other servers and so forth. The communication interfaces may include personal area networks wireless local area networks wireless wide area networks and so forth. The media device may communicate with the remote control using one or more of the communication interfaces . For example the media device may communicate with the remote control using a Bluetooth personal area network.

The media device may also include one or more busses other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the media device .

As illustrated in the media device may include at least one memory or memory device . The memory may include at least one non transitory CRSM. The CRSM may include at least one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium or a mechanical computer storage medium. The memory may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the media device .

The memory may include at least one OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces the device interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the hardware processor . The memory may also store at least one of the following modules which may be executed as foreground applications background tasks daemons and so forth.

The memory may include the user interface module configured to provide the user interface to the user using the I O devices and accept inputs received from the user input I O devices . The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements.

As discussed above the memory may include the presentation module . The presentation module may be configured to present the content or the modified content on or in conjunction with a display device of the media device . The presentation module may be configured to generate the modified content . The presentation module may generate the modified content by applying the parameter data to the content . As described above the application of the parameter data to the content may cause various modifications to the display of the content . For example the modifications may include at least one of changes in the outline of a glyph changes in the spacing between glyphs changes in the color of the glyphs and so forth.

The memory may include an alert module configured to generate the alert data . As discussed above with regard to the alert data may comprise information about the application of the parameter data to the glyphs . In one example the alert data indicates that the application of the parameter data to one or more glyphs results in an increase in surface area of the glyphs at or above a threshold level. In another example the alert data indicates that the distance between two glyphs has increased at or above a threshold amount.

The memory may include other modules . For example a digital rights management module may work in conjunction with the presentation module to facilitate access to content .

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more of the processed content the modified content or the alert data . As depicted in the processed content includes content and parameter data . The parameter data may comprise one or more of the parameter data . . . P shown in . Other data may also be stored such as user preferences account login information and so forth.

In this example the parameter generation module generates the parameter data . . . P using the base content . . . B as inputs. As discussed above with regard to the parameter generation module may generate the parameter data by comparing the base font data with the customized font data . In some implementations the parameter generation module generates the parameter data . . . P using the content as an input. For example the parameter generation module may compare the glyphs with one another and determine that one or more glyphs are too similar to one or more other glyphs . The parameter generation module may compare the glyphs by overlaying a first glyph on a second glyph . For example when the letter n is overlaid on the letter h the parameter generation module may determine that the difference between the letter n and the letter h is at or below a threshold.

As described above with regard to the content analysis module may select certain parameter data from the parameter datastore based on a comparison of at least a portion of the glyphs of the content with the base glyphs of the base content . The comparison may result in a determination that one or more of the glyphs of the content are the same or substantially similar to one another. In response to this determination the content analysis module may select the parameter data that is associated with or is generated based on the base content . One or more parameter data may be associated with or generated based on a given base content . The content analysis module may generate the processed content which may comprise the content and the selected parameter data .

In the server provides the processed content to the media device . In some implementations the server provides the content and the selected parameter to the media device separately.

The presentation module generates the modified content using the processed content as an input. The presentation module may generate the modified content in response to a request from the user .

Under the first modification the presentation module accesses the processed content . The processed content includes the content and the parameter data . The parameter data may comprise at least one of parameter data . . . P . The content includes the glyph depicted as the letter O having more than one portion. The glyph has a first portion and a second portion . The portions may be visualized as a top half of the glyph and a bottom half of the glyph . The presentation module may apply the parameter data such that one or more portions of the glyph are modified. For example the modified glyph depicted in has a modified second portion while the first portion remains unmodified when compared to the first portion of the glyph . In this example the application of the parameter data to the glyph causes an increase in the width of the bottom portion of the glyphs of the content .

Under the second modification the presentation module accesses the processed content which includes the content and the parameter data . In this example the content includes the glyph which are depicted as the letters AV . The presentation module generates the modified content by applying the parameter data to the content . The modified content includes the modified glyphs . In this example the application of the parameter data to the content causes one or more spaces between one or more glyphs to be decreased. For the glyphs of the content the distance between the letters A and V is depicted as distance A. For the modified glyphs of the modified content the distance between the letters A and V is depicted as distance B. By decreasing the distance between certain letters readability may be improved for some users .

The parameter generation module accesses the base content datastore . In this example the parameter generation module compares the base glyph with the customized glyph of the base content . In other examples to generate the parameter data the parameter generation module may analyze or compare base glyphs with customized glyphs of more than one base content such as based content and so forth.

In this example the base glyph is illustrated as the letter d having a line portion with a length C. The customized glyph is illustrated as the letter d having a line portion with a length D. As depicted the length D is greater the than the length C. This increase in length may be the result in a design feature conducted by a font designer. The parameter generation module may determine the difference between the lengths of length C and length D. The difference may be represented as a value or a number. The parameter data may comprise information that when applied to the glyphs of the content may increase the length of a portion of the glyphs by the value that represents the difference determined by the parameter generation module .

Under the first generation the parameter generation module accesses the content . In this example the content includes the glyph depicted as the letter O . The glyph includes a plurality of points . The plurality of points may be used by the media device to display content . In some implementations the font of the content may comprise a vector font which uses the points such that the glyphs of the content are scalable when compared to other types of font such as bitmap font.

The plurality of points are positioned at distances from one another. The parameter generation module may generate parameter data in response to a determination that certain points are positioned at certain distances from one another. For example the parameter generation module may generate parameter data in response to a determination that the distance between point and is less than or equal to a threshold distance. The parameter data may comprise information that when applied by the media device causes the distance between certain points to increase or decrease. When the distance between points are increased or decreased the shape of the glyph may be modified. Such a modification may result in increased readability for some users .

Under the second generation the parameter generation module accesses content which include glyphs and . The glyph comprises the letter n and the glyph comprises the letter h . In this example the parameter generation module analyzes the glyphs and by overlaying the glyph on the glyph . By overlaying the glyph on the glyph the parameter generation module may determine when the glyphs and may be too similar. Similar glyphs may decrease readability for some users . In some implementations the parameter generation module determines that a first glyph is too similar to another glyph in response to a determination that a threshold amount of surface area of the first glyph overlays the surface area of the second glyph and exceeds the threshold amount. In overlaid glyphs are depicted. The overlaid glyphs comprise the glyph overlaid on the glyph . As shown all of the surface area of the glyph overlays the surface area of the glyph . As a result the parameter generation module may generate parameter data which when applied to at least one of the glyph or the glyph changes the shape of the glyph or such that a threshold amount of the surface area of the glyphs does not overlap the surface area of the second glyph .

At block the server generates parameter data that includes a parameter used to modify content . In this example the parameter is generated based on a comparison of the base font data and the customized font data . In other examples the parameter may be generated based on an analysis of the content such as the examples depicted with regard to .

At block the server generates processed content that includes the content and the parameter data . The generation of the processed content may include selecting one or more parameter data from the parameter datastore . The selection may be based on a comparison of the glyphs of the content with the base glyphs stored in the base content datastore . For example the server may determine that the glyphs match or substantially match the base glyphs of first base content . Thereafter the server may select parameter data that is associated with the first base content . The parameter data that is associated with the first base content may include at least one of parameter data or P .

At block the server provides the processed content to the media device . In some implementations the server provides the content separate from the parameter data of the processed content .

At block the media device displays at least a portion of the content . At block the media device determines to modify at least one glyph of the content . The media device may determine to modify the at least one glyph of the content in response to receiving input data representing a request from the user to modify the content . In some implementations the content is not displayed but instead the modified glyphs are displayed. In these implementations the user is not given the option to change the display of the content and instead the media device automatically makes the changes.

At block the media device generates modified content that includes at least one modified glyph . The generation of the modified glyph may include applying the parameter data to the at least one glyph of the content . At block the media device displays the at least one modified glyph .

At block the server accesses content that includes a plurality of glyphs including a first glyph having a shape and a position relative to a second glyph . In one example the content includes an electronic book having many words including the word widget the first glyph may comprise the letter w and the second glyph may comprise the letter i . The letter w has a shape that includes four lines having a designated width. The letter w is also positioned at a distance from the letter i .

At block the server accesses parameter data including a parameter used to modify the position or the shape of the first glyph . The parameter is generated based on a comparison of other glyphs. The other glyphs may comprise base glyphs and customized glyphs . In one example the server accesses the parameter datastore that is configured to store a plurality of parameter data including the parameter data . . . P .

At block the server generates processed content that includes the content and the parameter data . The generation of the processed content may include selecting one or more parameter data from the parameter datastore . The selection may be based on a comparison of the glyphs of the content with the base glyphs stored in the base content datastore . For example the server may determine that the glyphs match or substantially match the base glyphs of first base content . Thereafter the server may select parameter data that is associated with the first base content . The parameter data that is associated with the first base content may include at least one of parameter data or P .

At block the server provides the processed content to the media device . The media device applies the parameter to the first glyph such that the position or the shape of the first glyph is modified.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

