---

title: Method, apparatus and system for management of information content for enhanced accessibility over wireless communication networks
abstract: A method comprises providing an interface permitting a first user to control activation of a mobile information channel through which the first user can share access to content with a plurality of additional users, activating the mobile information channel responsive to input received from the first user via the interface, inserting content provided by the first user into the mobile information channel, receiving additional content relating to the mobile information channel from one or more of said additional users via one or more respective mobile devices associated with at least one wireless network, inserting at least a portion of the additional content into the mobile information channel, and integrating into the mobile information channel information associated with at least one wireless networking functionality of said at least one wireless network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619578&OS=09619578&RS=09619578
owner: Engagelogic Corporation
number: 09619578
owner_city: Smithtown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140707
---
The present application is continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 175 768 filed Feb. 7 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 364 950 filed Feb. 2 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 027 519 filed Feb. 15 2011 and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 135 801 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 548 928 filed Aug. 27 2009 and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 908 342 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 464 526 filed Jun. 18 2003 and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 599 983 which claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 389 430 filed Jun. 18 2002 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to network based communication systems and more particularly to techniques for information content management in such systems.

One of the most rapidly expanding aspects of wireless networking involves the accessing of information content over wireless networks via web enabled mobile devices. Examples of such devices include mobile telephones personal digital assistants PDAs palmtop computers etc. As is well known these and other web enabled devices not only provide access to the Internet but can also be used to support other types of wireless networking functionality such as messaging distributed collaboration and location based services.

An important challenge in this context relates to facilitating the process of creating publishing distributing or otherwise managing information content so as to provide optimal presentation consistent with the limited display space and navigational capabilities of typical mobile devices. Many users for example may wish to make specific personalized information content available via mobile devices to their friends colleagues subscribers or other entities. However conventional techniques have been unable to meet this need in a satisfactory manner. By way of example conventional techniques such as web site authoring tools and web logging blogging are not optimized for use in the generation of information content for shared access via mobile devices.

These and other conventional techniques suffer from a number of significant drawbacks including a failure to provide suitable integration of messaging collaboration location based services or other wireless networking functionality with the generation of shared information content. As a result it is generally not possible for different mobile device users to link to and take further action on a persistent version of a given set of shared information content. The conventional techniques thus fail to provide a mechanism that facilitates uniform action driven content access and associated user interaction via wireless networks. Also such techniques generally require a significant amount of programming knowledge for their proper use and are therefore not suitable for relatively unsophisticated users.

Accordingly a need exists for improved techniques for managing information content in a manner that overcomes one or more of the drawbacks of the conventional techniques described above.

The present invention in an illustrative embodiment thereof provides techniques for efficient generation and management of mobile sites that are advantageously integrated with wireless networking functionality of a wireless network in a network based communication system.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a method comprises providing an interface permitting a first user to control activation of a mobile information channel through which the first user can share access to content with a plurality of additional users activating the mobile information channel responsive to input received from the first user via the interface inserting content provided by the first user into the mobile information channel receiving additional content relating to the mobile information channel from one or more of said additional users via one or more respective mobile devices associated with at least one wireless network inserting at least a portion of the additional content into the mobile information channel and integrating into the mobile information channel information associated with at least one wireless networking functionality of said at least one wireless network.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention an apparatus comprises a processing element comprising a processor coupled to a memory. The processing element provides at least a portion of an interface permitting a first user to control activation of a mobile information channel through which the first user can share access to content with a plurality of additional users. The processing element is configured to activate the mobile information channel responsive to input received from the first user via the interface insert content provided by the first user into the mobile information channel receive additional content relating to the mobile information channel from one or more of said additional users via one or more respective mobile devices associated with at least one wireless network insert at least a portion of the additional content into the mobile information channel and integrate into the mobile information channel information associated with at least one wireless networking functionality of said at least one wireless network.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a network based communication system comprises a plurality of servers configured to communicate over a network. At least one of the servers provides at least a portion of an interface permitting a first user to control activation of a mobile information channel through which the first user can share access to content with a plurality of additional users. Said at least one server is configured to activate the mobile information channel responsive to input received from the first user via the interface insert content provided by the first user into the mobile information channel receive additional content relating to the mobile information channel from one or more of said additional users via one or more respective mobile devices associated with at least one wireless network insert at least a portion of the additional content into the mobile information channel and integrate into the mobile information channel information associated with at least one wireless networking functionality of said at least one wireless network.

The present invention will be illustrated herein in the context of an exemplary network based communication system and associated system elements and processes. It is to be appreciated however that the particular arrangements shown and described herein are presented by way of illustrative example only and should therefore not be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention to any particular embodiment or group of embodiments. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the described techniques are more generally applicable to any wireless communication application in which it is desirable to provide improved integration of information content management with wireless network functionality.

The term user is intended to include without limitation an individual a group of individuals a business an organization or any other entity capable of deriving benefit from use of at least a portion of the system . Actions described herein as being performed by or otherwise associated with a user may be performed by or otherwise associated with an individual or other entity a corresponding device or both the entity and the device.

The network configuration of system illustratively comprises wireless network and Internet . However the invention does not require this particular network arrangement. A network suitable for use with the invention may include any type of data communication network including the Internet an intranet an extranet a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wired local area network LAN an IEEE 802.11 or Wi Fi wireless LAN a satellite communications network a virtual private network VPN a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network based on third generation 3G wideband code division multiple access CDMA or other standard as well as portions or combinations of these and other networks.

It is also to be appreciated that the invention is not limited with regard to the particular communication protocols that may be utilized in communicating information within the system of . Examples of communication protocols utilizable in conjunction with the invention include Internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP real time protocol RTP short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS wireless application protocol WAP session initiation protocol SIP etc.

The mobile devices can collectively comprise a wide variety of different devices configurable for communication over the network . The term mobile device as used herein is intended to include without limitation any type of portable information processing device capable of being configured for communication over a network. Examples of mobile devices utilizable in system of include a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a palmtop computer a hand held computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a global positioning system GPS receiver or other GPS based navigational device an MP3 player or other type of audio player a pager a watch or other timepiece a camera a portable game player etc.

The servers may comprise by way of example network computers or other types of computers or processing elements capable of being configured for the maintenance storage delivery or other processing of information received or deliverable over the Internet or other type of network.

Although not specifically denoted as such in the figure one or more of the user terminals may each comprise a mobile device. Also a given one of the user terminals may comprise a non mobile device including by way of example a desktop personal computer a workstation a minicomputer a mainframe computer a television a set top box a kiosk etc.

The memory of processing element stores one or more software programs which are executed by the processor in providing at least a portion of the system functionality described herein as being associated with the corresponding mobile device server or user terminal. One skilled in the art would understand that memory is an example of a computer readable storage medium.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention the system in the illustrative embodiment provides at least one content management site accessible to a system user. The user may be a user associated with one of the mobile devices or any other system user. The content management site may be supported by one or more of the servers and may be accessed by the user over Internet via one of the user terminals . The content management site permits the user to enter information in accordance with a specified format comprising a plurality of selectable mobile information channels each corresponding to an information category. The mobile information channels are also referred to as M channels herein and will be described in greater detail. below. The entered information is processed to generate a mobile web site comprising information content that is accessible via one or more of the mobile devices over the wireless network of the system . The information content of the mobile site is preferably configured such that a persistent version thereof is accessible via the one or more mobile devices over the wireless network .

The content management site can also be accessed via one of the mobile devices and used to create a mobile site also accessible via that mobile device and one or more other mobile devices.

The system can support any desired number of content management sites and any desired number of mobile sites that are generated and managed via the content management sites. For example a given content management site can be associated with a particular business or other entity and can be used to generate a plurality of mobile sites for various users associated with that business or other entity. An operator of the content management site can offer mobile site building and other content management services to such entities for a fee. The operator may also provide customization services so that a given entity can create mobile sites that bear corresponding corporate trademarks logos or other symbols or that are customized in other ways.

In the illustrative embodiment the content management sites and the mobile sites may each be implemented as a corresponding web site accessible over the Internet although this is not a requirement of the invention. Other embodiments may implement one or more of the content management sites or one or more of the mobile sites as intranet sites extranet sites or other information sources accessible via these or other types of networks.

Advantageously the information content of a given mobile site generated in the system may be configured so as to integrate therewith information associated with at least one wireless networking functionality of the wireless network . This information may be determinable based at least in part on one or more parameters associated with the above noted mobile information channels or M channels. Examples of such information include information specifying at least one messaging action implementable over the wireless network information specifying at least one collaboration action implementable over the wireless network and information specifying at least one location based service action implementable over the wireless network. Other types of information associated with wireless networking functionalities may also or alternatively be used.

Accessibility to a given mobile site may be controlled so as to permit one or more third parties to view at least a portion of the mobile site without any such parties being registered users of the content management or mobile site portions of the system.

A given content management site may be provided for example by a service provider or other entity operating the wireless network and a user thereof may be a subscriber of that entity. More particularly the content management site may include identifying information indicating association of the site with the entity operating the wireless network and may be made accessible only to subscribers of the wireless network.

As another example a given content management site used for generation and management of a mobile site may be provided to the user contingent upon purchase of specified goods or services associated with the wireless network .

A given mobile site in accordance with the invention can be generated for a group comprising multiple members having a common interest. For example a mobile site may be generated for a family a group of friends a club a sports team a business a sales force a civic group a fan group a political party a campaign a charity or any other type of multi member organization. Such a site may be used for efficient dissemination of relevant information to group members via the wireless network . For example the site can be used to generate messages using instant messaging IM SMS MMS pages emails voice over IP VoIP calls cellular telephone calls or any other suitable messaging format that are sent to organization members over the wireless network. Such a message from a given member of the organization can direct other members to access the mobile site to obtain additional information regarding events news cancellations reschedulings updates polls special requests etc. Organization members can easily and efficiently post information and generate messages to other members so as to facilitate collaboration and other types of interaction.

A given mobile site also by way of example may be associated with an event and information identifying the event and its associated mobile site may be transmitted via the wireless network to mobile devices of one or more users that are determined to be likely to have an interest in the subject matter of the event. The event may be a movie a concert a sporting event a political rally a contest a promotion particular goods or services being offered for sale by a vendor at certain prices or on certain conditions etc. Such interested users may be determined for example by comparing generalized demographic data associated with the event with personal demographic data previously stored for the system users or utilizing other marketing data based techniques. A mobile site of this type is especially useful for implementing follow up marketing actions user registration etc.

As another example a given mobile site may be associated with a particular geographic location. More specifically the given mobile site may be generated for a waypoint specified by particular latitude and longitude coordinates representing a geographic location utilized in the activity of geocaching or other location based activity. In generating such a mobile site utilizing the techniques of the invention a user could enter information such as a title a location specified by latitude longitude elevation or other location identifying information a difficulty level a terrain quality one or more hints a map or other types of information. Along with typical items found in a conventional geocache such as trinkets and a log a password could be included that provides access to a corresponding mobile site which can be utilized by other users to validate that they have found the geocache. Contests or promotions could also be organized to provide specified rewards to a first user to reach a given geocache. The first user to reach the geocache can be identified by determining the first user to log into the geocache mobile site using the appropriate password. Visitors to the mobile site may be provided with an ability to leave a note or other message describing aspects of their journey what items they took from the geocache what items they placed in the geocache etc. Mobile sites corresponding to geocaches may be searched for by zip code state country keyword waypoints GPS coordinates etc. A mobile device with built in GPS capability may be used to facilitate interaction with mobile sites corresponding to geocaches or other geographic locations. Mobile sites corresponding to these and other geographic locations can be accessed for instance using a GPS based automotive navigation device or other types of user devices.

As an additional example a given mobile site may be associated with a game. More specifically a mobile site may be generated for a game and accessed from a web enabled gaming device or other type of user device. The mobile site could provide information such as tips tricks player profiles and player locations and could also be used to support collaboration or other types of communication between players. Players may also be permitted to access the mobile site from non gaming user devices to participate in game related activities that could lead to increasing their health points skill level number of lives hit points magic level equipment apparatus gear etc.

As a further example a given mobile site may be associated with a user of IM SMS MMS email or other type of messaging service. More specifically a mobile site may be generated for a particular user so that other users exchanging messages with the particular user are provided with access to persistent information content that facilitates their interaction with the particular user. Such an arrangement is particularly useful as the volume of wireless spam is continually increasing and users require an island in the storm at which they can interact in a controlled private collaborative workspace. Additionally when a user accesses an email or other type of message using a mobile device that user can be directed to a mobile site for follow up marketing actions or other activities.

As another example a given mobile site may be associated with a television program movie music artist or other entertainment related entity. More specifically a mobile site may be generated for a broadcast program and accessed by a user from a set top box while the user is watching that program. Interaction activities involving provided content could then take place between viewers the network and advertisers.

As yet another example a given mobile site may be associated with a particular product via product name bar code radio frequency identification RFID or other type of product identifying information. Such a mobile site could be configured to provide for its associated product additional information of interest to product users customer service access ordering or purchase support etc.

Of course the foregoing are merely examples of mobile sites that may be generated and managed using the techniques of the invention. Numerous other types of mobile sites may be used in implementing the present invention.

The term mobile site as used herein is intended to include without limitation a web site a collaborative workspace a data mailbox a collaborative community an Internet storefront one or more M channels and or an associated data set or other similar element s as well as portions or combinations thereof.

The above noted M channels will now be described in greater detail. As mentioned previously M channels are utilized at the content management site of the illustrative embodiment to facilitate the generation of mobile sites and the management of associated content. More specifically the M channels allow unsophisticated users to easily and efficiently author message data or other types of information content to be made accessible via a collaborative workspace a data mailbox a collaborative community or other type of mobile site or portion thereof generated or otherwise managed in the system . Features such as task action event location delivery or collaborative enabling of specified M channel content may be specified along with access methods automatic generation of wirelessly accessible navigation menus content presentation views etc.

The particular configuration of the M channels and the content integration options associated therewith may vary from implementation to implementation depending upon factors such as the particular wireless networking functionalities available in the system.

Examples of M channels suitable for use in the illustrative embodiment include channels denoted herein as mobile ID business card also referred to as a contact M channel announcements chat events guest book diary journal bookmarks links discussion forum survey poll newsletter zine notes email address book contribute donate mobile volunteer management company directory in out board field reports feedback form builder live data in out syndication mobile document library products catalog shopping cart services catalog shopping cart appointments task list assignments promotions offers coupons sweepstakes contests photo blog etc. Numerous other information categories may be represented by corresponding mobile information channels at a content management site in accordance with the invention.

Additional details regarding the operation of exemplary M channels in accordance with the invention will be described below in conjunction with certain of the site pages of as well as in conjunction with the operational flow diagrams of .

As indicated previously the content management aspects of the system can be implemented at least in part utilizing software associated with processing elements of the system. A more particular example of one possible arrangement of such elements will now be described in conjunction with . Of course this is simply one possible arrangement and a wide variety of other arrangements suitable for implementing the techniques of the invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Referring now to a set of processing elements in the system includes a plurality of suites each suite comprising a particular arrangement of hardware software and or firmware elements implemented using one or more of the mobile devices servers and user terminals of the system . More specifically the set of processing elements comprises a display suite associated with a display server a management and processing suite associated with an interaction server a data integration suite associated with a data integration server and a services integration suite associated with a services integration server . Each of the servers and may comprise one or more of the servers or other elements shown in or suitable portions or combinations thereof.

Communications between the suites and may be carried out using conventional connections established over wireless network or Internet or using other communication channels or transport media of a type known in the art.

In the display suite a number of example user devices including mobile phone smart phone pocket PC Palm device iMode phone personal computer set top box game and or camera and other wireless devices interact with the display server . The display server interacts with elements of one or more of the other suites in controlling the presentation of particular screens on the various user devices. Certain of the user devices in suite may be viewed as representative examples of mobile devices while others may be viewed as representative examples of user terminals .

The management and processing suite includes a management and M channel engine a personalization and rules engine an authoring and publishing engine a presentation engine and a distribution delivery and service engine . The interaction server controls the interface between these engines and the display server of the display suite . The management and processing suite in this example provides the above noted content management site s utilized to generate and otherwise manage mobile sites in accordance with the techniques of the invention.

The data integration suite includes extensible markup language XML and or rich site summary RSS feeds database and or file syndication services device captured data web services and other data sources . The data integration server controls the interface between these data sources and the interaction server of the management and processing suite .

Other XML related protocols that may be utilized in conjunction with the invention include for example remote procedure call RPC outline processor markup language OPML and simple object access protocol SOAP .

The services integration suite includes an MMS center an SMS center email systems billing systems voice systems and other systems each of which may be viewed as representative of a particular type of wireless networking functionality accessible to the mobile devices via the wireless network . The services integration server controls the integration of information associated with these wireless networking functionalities with the content of the mobile site generated via the content management site.

It is to be appreciated that certain aspects of the content management site may be made accessible via one or more of the mobile sites and vice versa. The notation Winksite may therefore also be used to denote a content management site or portion thereof or a hybrid site comprising aspects of both a content management site and one or more mobile sites.

Additional schematic diagrams of web pages associated with the example content management site or a corresponding mobile site will be described in conjunction with . Related screenshots of the web pages associated with the content management site will be described with reference to . It should again be emphasized however that the arrangements shown are presented by way of illustrative example and should therefore not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way.

The content management site may be viewed as being part of a mobile communications publishing platform provided by the system of . This platform integrates aspects of wireless network functionality with mobile site content generation thereby facilitating user interaction via the mobile devices . The content management site in the illustrative embodiment is designed to generate and otherwise manage dynamic time sensitive task oriented mobile sites including wireless collaborative workspaces and communities. The content management site allows content such as data media multimedia messages news features events polls competitions and advertising to be rapidly created entered into the system and then subsequently syndicated distributed shared collaborated with or acted upon by users of mobile devices.

By utilizing the content management site system users can create one or more personal or business mobile sites with various sets of features and then share such sites via the mobile Internet or other wireless network with friends family colleagues or other groups of any type. The content management site makes it simple for unsophisticated users to upload enter create syndicate distribute or otherwise manage content that is important to them in a manner that allows such content to be accessed shared and acted upon from a mobile device.

Referring now to a home page of the content management site provides a user interface comprising a series of display regions denoted by blocks through each associated with a corresponding user activatable control mechanism. These control mechanisms may be implemented as a plurality of hypertext links each of which when activated instantiates a subordinate user interface comprising one or more other pages of data associated with the content management site. The home page and other pages referred to herein may be configured using hypertext markup language HTML XML or other any suitable web page formatting language as well as combinations of such languages.

Access to the home page may be provided to all system users regardless of whether or not those users have previously registered with the system. A given user accesses the home page by entering a corresponding uniform resource locator URL in a web browser of their associated user device. Although not specifically shown in the figure introductory instructional or other explanatory text as well as graphics and various forms of advertising including so called click through or banner advertising may be included on the home page .

A registration process is preferably provided in order to allow users to establish an account with the system. Such a process can be initiated by activation of the hyperlink associated with block . Previously registered users can login to their accounts by activating the hyperlink associated with block . Details of the registration and login processes associated with respective blocks and will be described below in conjunction with the respective flow diagrams of .

Access to certain system features associated with certain blocks such as blocks through may be limited to registered users. Registered users may also be referred to herein as members. 

The text and graphics of the home page although initially the same for both registered and unregistered users may be periodically updated or otherwise customized to display account information or other information that is unique to a registered user upon login of such a user.

Block in represents a display region containing a link to an optional logoff process. The logoff process enables a registered user who has previously logged in to activate a control so as to redirect his or her browser to the non customized version of home page . This feature is useful for example in a situation in which multiple users share the same personal computer or other terminal. More specifically a given registered user who has logged in may without turning off the computer or closing its Internet connection and even without closing the browser or pointing it to another URL conceal and prevent further access to his or her account information while also enabling another registered or unregistered user to access the home page .

An example of a preference feature that may be made available only to registered users is an address book feature. This feature can be accessed by activating the link associated with block in . Such a feature allows the names email addresses mobile telephone numbers and other contact information of potential message recipients to be recorded and then easily selected when a message is to be sent.

A given registered user may be permitted to elect to share his or her address book information or other types of user information with other users. Such sharing can be implemented by activating a link not shown to a page where the user may provide identifying information about the other individual s with whom he or she proposes to share information. The site software may be configured such that if any of the other individuals are registered users an email message is sent to those individuals. The email message may contain a link to the URL of a page at which the individuals will be given the option of accepting or declining the information sharing proposal.

If any of the other individuals are not registered users then an attempt may be made to obtain an email address for each of those other non registered users. For any such non registered users for which an email address is obtained an email message may be sent containing a link along with appropriate explanatory text to the site registration process to be described in conjunction with . After completing the registration process the individual will be given the option of accepting or declining the information sharing proposal.

A given registered user may also be permitted to designate one or more other users selected for example from among those listed in a directory or contact list with whom the given user would like to interact. Any such other users may be notified in the manner indicated above and provided with an opportunity to accept or deny the proposed interaction.

Another preference feature that may be provided to registered users is an ability to designate one or more of the mobile sites available in the directory of the content management site as favorite mobile sites. This can substantially reduce the number of screens or pages that need be reviewed in order to select a particular mobile site to visit. However it should be understood that registered users who have designated certain mobile sites as favorite mobile sites are not thereafter limited to making their selections only from among those favorites. Each such user may still choose to review and select from all of the available mobile sites within the directory.

Yet another preference feature that may be made available to registered users is an ability to post one or more messages on a community bulletin board that is accessible to both registered and non registered users. This feature allows non registered users to become aware of the messages posted by registered users thereby encouraging further registrations and increasing use of the site.

Registered users may also be permitted to track the activity of their associated mobile sites by creating selecting or otherwise designating an avatar whose health personality responses behavior or other characteristics reflects in some manner the level of activity associated with the sites. Such an avatar may be used to provide an at a glance representation of the popularity usage traffic patterns or other characteristic s of a corresponding mobile site.

It is also possible to provide different levels of service for different registered users. For example certain registered users may be permitted to elect to upgrade their registration to one or more preferred levels of service. The various levels of service may be designated using different colors or other sets of designations such as copper silver gold and platinum or individual individual plus business and business plus. As their registration level increases the corresponding registered users will receive additional benefits such as increased storage space bandwidth or publishing features and options.

A variety of other techniques may be used to encourage user registration. For example demographic data or other types of marketing data may be used to identify particular groups likely to benefit from registration and particular mobile sites can be pre created and made available to such groups on a trial basis upon registration or upon satisfaction of other conditions. The mobile site addresses for all of the members of each group will preferably reflect in some common way one or more unique characteristics of the group.

Referring now to these figures show a mobile site home M home page and a Winksite page respectively of an example mobile site in the illustrative embodiment of the invention. The pages and provide user interfaces comprising series of display regions denoted by blocks through and through respectively with each of the blocks being associated with a corresponding user activatable hypertext link or other control mechanism. The mobile site home page may be accessed for example by entering a corresponding URL of the mobile site into a browser at one of the mobile devices . The Winksite page may be accessed for example by activating the link associated with block of and completing an associated login process.

As noted above are screenshots of illustrative site pages associated with a content management site in the system of . These screenshots will now be described in greater detail.

With reference to an example of a home page of the content management site is shown. This home page screenshot may be viewed as corresponding generally to the home page schematically shown in . The home page in this example includes among other elements elements through arranged as shown. A web site logo can be included along with site branding and promotional copy associated with an entity providing the content management site. A login section includes fields and for entering respective user name and password information along with a Start in selector and a login button . The home page further includes links and banner advertisements explanatory text a feedback entry field and a user information submission field .

A given registered user after initial registration may access his or her registration information directly on an as needed basis in order to make changes therein as appropriate. For example a registered user may wish to change his or her password or username or to provide updated address or contact information. The account information link in the set of account setting links instantiates a subordinate user interface comprising a site page that may be configured as shown in . Other links in the set of account setting links similarly provide access to pages allowing entry or revision of information associated with a user M card profile interests offers etc.

With reference initially to the page as shown corresponds to an M channel for which the user has not yet entered any content. The page includes a button which permits a user to add an item of content to the M channel and explanatory text which indicates that the user currently has no content in the channel and describes the manner in which the user can add content items to the channel.

The content management site of the system in the illustrative embodiment thus allows a user to manage content for access via the mobile devices by interaction with one or more specified M channels. As indicated above a user selects a particular M channel by activating the corresponding link in . This action instantiates a subordinate user interface to the selected M Channel represented by the page shown in . The user then activates the add button of which instantiates a subordinate user interface to an authoring wizard associated with that M channel represented by the page shown in .

The operation of certain aspects of the system of will now be described with reference to the flow diagrams of .

In step the user reviews legal information pertaining to the use of the content management site and its terms of service. Step determines whether the user is of the requisite age to use the site step determines if the user accepts specified terms and conditions step determines if the submitted information will be accepted or declined and step determines if valid information has been submitted. A negative determination in any of steps and results in the process returning to step to allow the user to make at least one more registration attempt. A negative determination in step terminates the registration process and returns the user to the home page HP from which the registration process was initiated as indicated at .

After positive determinations in steps and a database entry is created for the user in step a user URL and redirect file are created in step a welcoming email is sent to the user in step and the registration is completed in step . At this point a user may be permitted to build a mobile site as indicated by the transition to the site building indicator B .

Referring now to an example login process L accessible via the content management site is shown. A user enters a login page at step and is requested at step to confirm that he or she is a member i.e. that he or she is already registered with the system. If the user is not registered a link to the registration process R described previously and depicted in is activated. Otherwise step determines if the user has forgotten his or her password. If this is the case steps through are executed to prompt the user to enter a user name and or other identifying information and to click a send button such that an email containing the forgotten password is then sent to the user after which the process returns to step . A negative determination in step results in execution of steps through prompting the user to enter a user name and password to select an area of the content management site to start in and to click a button to submit the login information. Step determines if the submitted login information is correct. If it is the process ends and the user can be directed for example to the home page HP the directory D the start page SP or to any other desired page of the site. The resulting presented page is preferably customized to include information specific to the user such as the information shown generally at in .

If the login information entered by the user is incorrect the process may return to step so that correct or more current login information may be submitted. While in some embodiments of the invention these verification steps could be repeated indefinitely it is preferable to place a limit on the number of times that the system will continue to attempt such verification without success after which the login process will end and no further submissions of login information will be accepted from that user until some specified remedial action takes place. Similar restrictions may be placed on repetition of the registration process previously described in conjunction with .

Step determines if the submitted information is to be saved or canceled. The latter results in the process being directed to the home page HP the start page SP or other specified page of the content management site. If the submitted information is to be saved step determines if the submitted information is valid. If the submitted information is not valid the process returns to step to allow the user at least one additional attempt to create the mobile site. A positive determination in step results in the execution of content and or data device formatting step database entry creation step and site URL and redirect file creation step . The URL is used to access the mobile site that is created as a result of the process.

Step represents the start of an M channel selection wizard. From the M channel selection wizard step the user can choose a template task and or goal in step choose appropriate fields in step and select desired options in step . At this point the process generates the appropriate rules for the display engine in step and then activates or otherwise generates one or more M channels for the mobile site in step . The result is a site specific M channel list as indicated in step an example of which was previously described in conjunction with the screenshot of . Supplementary to this portion of the process the user is also provided with an opportunity in steps and of to add additional M channels options external services and the like to the mobile site. Any such added elements are taken into account in generating the site specific M channel list in step . At the completion of step the process returns to the main menu MM from which the M channel wizard step can again be initiated to further modify the previously created mobile site.

Turning now to an example process for content authoring at the content management site is shown. The user in step selects a particular M channel for which the content is to be authored. Step generates an M channel content list and step allows the status of the various content items to be changed from published to unpublished and vice versa. Steps and allow content items on the M channel content list to be erased. From the M channel content list generated in step an item authoring wizard may be initiated in step . This wizard facilitates the authoring of a content item by prompting the user to enter date and time in step to enter a title in step to enter message content data template or both in step to select or upload media in step to select distribution delivery and service options in step and to select publishing options in step .

Selectable or uploadable media may include for example an XML RSS feed a database entry a syndication item a document a video a photo a graphic a music file etc. Distribution delivery and service options may include for example a distribution list based on group s or individual s SMS delivery MMS delivery email delivery WAP availability syndication availability particular content to be combined or otherwise integrated with the content item upon delivery etc. The publishing options may specify launch date expiration date private public group specific etc.

Step determines if a save button or a cancel button has been activated. Activation of the cancel button returns the process to the M channel content list in step . Activation of the save button causes formatting of the message content and or data device in step . Step determines if media has been selected for upload. If so the selected media is uploaded in step . In any case step then determines if distribution delivery and service options have been set. A positive determination results in the setting of the distribution delivery and service options in step . The process then proceeds to step in which the generated content item and its associated settings are saved preferably by storage in a database or other memory or storage device of the system as indicated at . The process then returns to the M channel content list in step .

Step initiates a distribution delivery and service engine which sends the content item out to a rules based display engine in step which then driven by the options previously selected in steps and handles the presentation of the content in a manner appropriate to the mobile devices on which it is to be viewed. The distribution delivery and service engine may also take into account one or more external services as indicated. The display engine further provides appropriate interaction mechanisms consistent with the content and its associated options. In addition alerts and or other messages can be sent out in step based on options selected in step for notifying the recipient s that the content item is now available for access via the mobile site. The M channel content list and more specifically the item view associated with the particular content item are updated as appropriate in steps and .

It is also possible from the directory step to initiate a site search in step which may include specifying in steps and the respective beginning containing or ending parameters of the desired site. This leads to a site results list in step that can be used to retrieve one or more user mobile sites in step . Other mobile site directory functions include generation of a site list in step leading to user selection of a letter and or a number in step generation of site categories in step leading to user selection of a category in step and generation of keywords in step leading to user entry of a particular keyword or keywords in step . Each of these functions results in generation of a site results list in step from which a user mobile site can be accessed in step .

It is to be appreciated that the processes and their associated steps as described in conjunction with the operational flow diagrams of are merely exemplary and the invention does not require the particular steps shown or their particular order of execution.

The above described illustrative embodiment of the invention provides a number of significant advantages relative to conventional techniques.

For example the system as described herein is advantageous in that it can be used to allow content providers to cost effectively publish distribute and generate revenue from a mobile content service.

Also the system provides a platform for the development of a wide variety of personalized content applications for users of mobile devices thereby allowing wireless network service providers not only to increase their subscriber base but also to reduce turnover in their subscriber base.

Furthermore the invention allows users to more efficiently communicate collaborate and otherwise interact with their friends or colleagues instantly and seamlessly within a single system that provides a mobile web site integrating existing wireless networking functionalities such as IM SMS MMS location based services or email with personally authored content.

Yet another advantage of the system described in conjunction with the illustrative embodiment is that it does not require users to download and install any particular client side software. The generation of a given mobile site and the management of the content associated therewith is driven in the illustrative embodiment from the content management site at the server side of the system accessible via a standard browser. The system is configured to operate independently of the user device operating system or other user device configuration parameters such that a given user may author create publish send convey share receive respond to subscribe to collaborate with track transact maintain and manage personalized messaging content from any type of user device running any operating system.

It should again be emphasized that the illustrative embodiment as described above is presented by way of example only and should not be construed as limiting in any way. Numerous alternative embodiments within the scope of the appended claims will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

