---

title: Content surfacing based on geo-social factors
abstract: In one embodiment, a geo-social networking system determines a user's current location, calculates a novelty score for the location representing the user's degree of familiarity, and surfaces content within a geographic and temporal radius based on the novelty score for display to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09300741&OS=09300741&RS=09300741
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09300741
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 275 060 filed 17 Oct. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a geo social networking service and more particularly to surfacing content to a device based on geo social factors.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position tracking can allow a geo social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests. For example users can check in to a place using a mobile client application by providing a name of a place or selecting a place from a pre established list of places . The geo social networking system among other things can record information about the user s presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the geo social networking system.

Particular embodiments relate to a geo social networking system that includes features directed to automatically surfacing content related to the current location of a client device based on various geo social factors. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the user s profile page.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can generally model the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

A social networking system may support a variety of applications such as photo sharing on line calendars and events. For example the social networking system may also include media sharing capabilities. For example the social networking system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user s profile such as in a wall post or in a photo album both of which may be accessible to other users of the social networking system. Social networking system may also allow users to configure events. For example a first user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event location of the event and other users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and respond such as by accepting the invitation or declining it . Furthermore social networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to events the calendar entries may include times dates locations and identities of other users.

The social networking system may also support a privacy model. A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user and or select settings that apply globally or to categories or types of user profile information. A privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 863 181 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 584 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. An entry including a comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 858 817 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes an example geo social networking system that can be used in connection with various embodiments of the present invention. The check in activity may also be displayed on a user profile page and in news feeds provided to users of the social networking system.

Still further a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a user may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device and send the location data to social networking system. In this manner the social networking system may track the user s location and provide various recommendations to the user related to places that are proximal to the user s path or that are frequented by the user. In one implementation a user may opt in to this recommendation service which causes the client application to periodically post location data of the user to the social networking system.

Still further particular embodiments allow the social networking system to surface various pieces of content based on the current location of a device associated with a particular user or member of the social network aggregate amount of time spent by the user in the current location and the distance between the previously determined location and the current location of the device. Based on these factors the social networking system may determine the novelty of the current location to the user of the client device and cast a wider or narrower net geographically and temporally for surfaced content. For example if a user is in a location where he or she has spent little to no time the social networking system may surface content from the entire region state or country of the location. Furthermore if the user has spent little or no time in a particular location content may be surfaced from any date in the past. However if the user has spent a significant amount of time in a particular location the social networking system determines that the location is not novel to the user and surfaces content only related to a small geographic radius and posted to the social network in the last few days.

Content may be anything existing on the social network related to the location including without limitation photos videos stories check ins comments reviews news entries links events audio deals promotions ads and the like. In particular embodiments the content replaces the home screen background screen lock screen or other default screens of the user s mobile device. In particular embodiments the content is generated as a custom news feed for the location.

In particular embodiments content matching the search radius is ranked based on social relevancy and displayed to the user in order of descending social relevancy. Multiple factors may be taken into account when determining social relevancy including without limitation the relationship between the user and the user who generated the content the amount of engagement of the content and whether the content was uploaded by a friend of another user of the social network who is in the same location as the user.

Thus this disclosure provides users of client devices a manner of physically exploring the social graph by surfacing relevant content based on geo social factors.

In particular embodiments location database may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information such as the user that initially created the place reviews comments check in activity data and the like . Places may be created by administrators of the system and or created by users of the system. For example a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database . As discussed above a created place may correspond to a hub node which an administrator can claim for purposes of augmenting the information about the place and for creating ads or other offers to be delivered to users. In particular embodiments system front end may construct and serve a web page of a place as requested by a user. In some embodiments a web page of a place may include selectable components for a user to like the place or check in to the place. In particular embodiments location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of a user associated with a check in. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular Wi Fi and or GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments location database may store a geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. For example a geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station . For example a geographic location of a place with a large area e.g. Yosemite National Park can be a shape e.g. a circle or a polygon approximating the boundary of the place and or a centroid of the shape. For example additional information of a place can be business hours photos or user reviews of the place. In particular embodiments location database may store a user s location data. For example a user can create a place e.g. a new restaurant or coffee shop and the social networking system can store the created place in location database . For example location database may store a user s check in activities. For example location database may store a user s geographic location provided by the user s GPS equipped mobile device. In particular embodiments the social networking system may calculate one or more routes of a user based on the user s user profile information check in activities and or geographic location data reported by a client application see above and store the one or more routes in location database . For example the social networking system can calculate a commute route of a user between the user s home and work as described in the user s user profile information stored in user profile database by using a mapping service application such as Google Maps or by using geographic location data points from the user s GPS equipped mobile phone while the user is driving to work.

At Step the content surfacing process determines a novelty score for the location unique to client device . The novelty score is an estimation as to how familiar the user of a mobile or client device is with the location. In particular embodiments the novelty score may be based off a number of geo social factors. For example the social networking system may continuously collect location data from a particular user s client device to ascertain the aggregate amount of time a user has spent in a particular location. When the user has spent little or no time in a given location the social networking system may in particular embodiments estimate that the user does not know the area at all and assign a high novelty score to the location for client device . In particular embodiments a single user may be associated with multiple client devices. For example a user may log in from a desktop or notebook computer. In such a case the IP address may be mapped to a physical location and the social network may assume the user is in that location. In particular embodiments the social networking system may parse the user s profile information for self declared location information including but not limited to the user s current city the user s hometown the user s cities of education and the user s cities of employment. Generally speaking the novelty score decreases as the user spends more time in a given location.

On the other hand if the social networking system has found that the user has spent several years in the same location the social networking system may estimate that the user lives in the area and knows it well consequently the social networking system may assign a low novelty score to the location for client device . In particular embodiments the social networking system takes into account in addition to the aggregate amount of time spent in the location the last time the user was detected in the location. For example if a user is visiting an area that he or she has spent a great deal of time in but has not visited recently the social networking system may increase the novelty score accordingly.

In particular embodiments the novelty score is based on the distance d between the most recent previously determined position of client device and the current location of client device . For example where a user travels from San Francisco Calif. to Barcelona Spain upon powering up his or her device in Spain the social networking system determines that d is 5 962 miles and will accordingly increase the novelty score for the current location. In particular embodiments other geo social factors may be accounted for in the novelty score. In particular embodiments information may be mined from the user s personal profile to calculate the novelty score. If for example a user s employment history states that he was employed in the current location the social networking system may utilize this information as well as the length of employment to adjust the novelty score for the location. In particular embodiments if the user has been tagged in a photo in the location the social networking system accordingly reduces the novelty score for the location. In particular embodiments if the user has granted the social network to other social networks services e mail services or other cloud based computing services the social networking system may mine the user s data to ascertain whether the user has previously visited the current location. In particular embodiments the aggregate time spent is weighted heavier than the d value in calculating the novelty score. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of calculating a novelty score and utilizing any combination of social factors or weighting in the novelty score calculation.

The novelty score calculated in Step is utilized to determine what content to surface to the user. In particular embodiments content existing on the social network one or both location and time uploads. For example uploaded photographs may be associated with a physical location on the social network. In particular embodiments photographs are associated with a physical location based on EXIF location data. In particular embodiments uploaded photographs are associated with a particular physical location through matching the photos with a database of photos having a known geographic location via a computer vision algorithm. Similarly uploaded photos may include EXIF data including the date and time of capture. Alternatively the social networking system may timestamp the uploaded photograph with the date and time of upload.

Because it is desirable for the content surfacing process to deliver content to the user that is relevant to the user in particular embodiments the granularity of the delivered content is inversely correlated with the novelty score for the location. In particular embodiments the granularity of delivered content is defined by a geographic radius from the location and a temporal duration from the current time. For example where a user is completely unfamiliar with an area high novelty score the content surfacing process will pull content from a large geographic radius such as the entire region state or country containing the location. Similarly where a user is unfamiliar with an area the content surfacing system will pull content from a large temporal duration for example all content regardless of the timestamp. On the other hand if a user is in an area he or she knows well low novelty score the content surfacing process may only deliver content within a small geographic area such as within 100 feet and occurring within a short temporal duration for example within the last 24 hours . Thus the content surfacing process delivers relevant content to the user that is tailored to his estimated familiarity of his or her present location. In particular embodiments the granularity is inversely correlated with the novelty score. In particular embodiments the granularity is nonlinearly inversely correlated with the novelty score. In particular embodiments the granularity is weighted unevenly between the multiple factors. In particular embodiments the content surfacing system is not limited to filtering content by geographic radius and temporal duration. In particular embodiments a particular city or region may be segmented into any arbitrary region such as a neighborhood or district. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of filtering the content to be surfaced.

At Step the content surfacing process retrieves content that falls within the geographic and temporal radius determined based on the novelty score calculated in Step . As previously disclosed the geographic radius need not be limited to a circular radius. In particular embodiments any arbitrary geographic area may be utilized to filter surfaced content. As previously stated content comprises any type of information stored on the social networking system. For example photos that were captured within the geographic area and uploaded by friends of the user check ins by friends of the user to locations falling within with the geographic area reviews of businesses or entities in the geographic area by friends of the user comments on pages associated with locations falling within the geographic area by the friends of the users pages associated with locations within the geographic area and comments including text associated with locations within the geographic area. This disclosure contemplates delivering any type of information from the social networking system to the user as surfaced content.

In Step the list of content to be surfaced is ranked by the content surfacing processing based on distance relevancy and other geo social factors. For example the content surfacing process can rank the list of content based on a distance between location associated with the content and the user s current location by arranging the content closest to the user s current location to the top of the list. In particular embodiments the social networking system calculates a social coefficient representing how close two individual users are on the social network based on demographic factors mutual friends and the degree of interaction between the two users and pushes content uploaded or associated with users having a higher social coefficient with the user to the top of the list. In particular embodiments highly engaged content such as photos that have been highly commented on or highly liked are ranked higher. In particular embodiments the content surfacing process ranks content published by friends of another user in the same location as the user of client device are ranked higher. For example if user A and user B are at the same location at the same time content published by the friends of user B are surfaced to user A and vice versa.

At Step the content surfacing process delivers the content to the client device . In particular embodiments the delivered content may take the form of a customized news feed on the user s client device . In particular embodiments the surfaced content may be a photo slideshow that replaces the lock screen screen saver desktop background or any other default screen of client device . In particular embodiments the surfaced content may be delivered to the user in the form of a map having pins designating the location of each piece of content. In particular embodiments these pins may also designate the type of story or content at a given location. In particular embodiments content may be delivered to client device through a notifications indicator. For example a user may receive a selectable notification that when selected displays the delivered content. In particular embodiments the notification system operates in real time the user receives a notification as soon as the relevant content is generated on the social networking system. In particular embodiments the notifications are based on a specific geographic radius surrounding the location of client device . In particular embodiments the radius may be 10 meters and as a user approaches a geographic location where a particular piece of relevant content was created the user receives a notification. For example as a user is walking past a particular restaurant that is associated with a review created by one of the user s friends he or she may receive a notification displaying the review. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of delivering and displaying surfaced content to the user through client device .

However as the hypothetical travel remains in Barcelona for an extended period of time the content surfacing process determines that Barcelona is less novel to the user and increases the granularity of the content to be surfaced to the user. As shown in as the user spends more time within the Las Ramblas district of Barcelona the geographic and temporal search area for content to be surfaced is dramatically reduced. As previously discussed geographic search area may take any arbitrary shape such as the neighborhood encompassing Las Ramblas. If the hypothetical user was to remain in the same area search area would be reduced in geographic and temporal radius until in particular embodiments only content relating to locations within a few hundred feet and occurring a few days prior is displayed to the user.

Referring back to if the hypothetical traveler moves to Madrid geographic and temporal search radius is re centered around Madrid. Although the user may have a low aggregate amount of time spent in Madrid the geographic and temporal search area is not increased again to the size of because the distance between Madrid and Barcelona is far smaller than between San Francisco and Barcelona. Thus the content surfacing process displays content relating to Madrid rather than all of Spain to the user.

At T 1 the user powers down his or her client device to fly from San Francisco to Barcelona. Upon powering up client device at T 2 the social networking system calculates a novelty score based upon at least the aggregate amount of time the user has spent in Barcelona and the difference in position from the previously reported location and the current location. In this example because the distance is large and the aggregate amount of time is small the novelty is high and therefore the search area both geographically and temporally is extremely large. Thus the content surfacing system shows in particular embodiments photos posted by the user s friends at any date from all of Spain. As the user spends more time in Barcelona the geographic and temporal search radius progressively decreases.

At T 2 the user travels to Madrid and the content surfacing process calculates a new novelty score for Madrid for the user. Because the user has not been in Madrid before but because the delta between his or her last location Barcelona and current location is relatively small the search radius increases slightly and is re centered around Madrid. In particular embodiments the content surfacing process takes into account the distance traveled over time. For example when traveling via plane the distance traveled over time is very high and thus the user is less likely to be familiar with the area. However when traveling by car or train the distance traveled over time is relatively low so the user is more likely to be familiar with the area. In particular embodiments the content surfacing process recalculates the novelty score any time the user has moved beyond a given distance. In particular embodiments the content surfacing process continuously calculates a novelty score for the current location of client device and utilizes a sliding window for distance traveled over time to determine whether the user is in transit. As when the hypothetical traveler was in Barcelona as the user spends more and more time in Madrid the geographic and temporal search radius decreases at a linear or nonlinear rate.

At T 4 the user arrives back in San Francisco. In particular embodiments the search radius returns to the previous level prior to T 1 . In particular embodiments as shown in only the temporal search radius increases. Thus the content surfacing process shows the user the content that was generated since the time that the user left.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network such as for example a 702.11a b g n WI FI network a 702.11s mesh network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network a Long Term Evolution LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. This disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

The client side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium that when executed cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above. While the client device may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform of a client or mobile device according to various particular embodiments. In particular embodiments computing platform may comprise controller memory and input output subsystem . In particular embodiments controller which may comprise one or more processors and or one or more microcontrollers configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. In various embodiments controller may be implemented as a single chip multiple chips and or other electrical components including one or more integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. Controller may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. By way of example using instructions retrieved from memory controller may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform . By way of example controller may include one or more processors or one or more controllers dedicated for certain processing tasks of computing platform for example for 2D 3D graphics processing image processing or video processing.

Controller together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of example and not by way of limitation the operating system may be Windows based Mac based or Unix or Linux based or Symbian based among other suitable operating systems. The operating system other computer code and or data may be physically stored within memory that is operatively coupled to controller .

Memory may encompass one or more storage media and generally provide a place to store computer code e.g. software and or firmware and data that are used by computing platform . By way of example memory may include various tangible computer readable storage media including Read Only Memory ROM and or Random Access Memory RAM . As is well known in the art ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni directionally to controller and RAM is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi directional manner. Memory may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of by way of example hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs flash memory cards e.g. Secured Digital or SD cards embedded MultiMediaCard or eMMD cards among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi directionally to controller . Information may also reside on one or more removable storage media loaded into or installed in computing platform when needed. By way of example any of a number of suitable memory cards e.g. SD cards may be loaded into computing platform on a temporary or permanent basis.

Input output subsystem may comprise one or more input and output devices operably connected to controller . For example input output subsystem may include keyboard mouse one or more buttons thumb wheel and or display e.g. liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED Interferometric modulator display IMOD or any other suitable display technology . Generally input devices are configured to transfer data commands and responses from the outside world into computing platform . The display is generally configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform and the operating system or application s running on the mobile device. Generally the GUI presents programs files and operational options with graphical images. During operation the user may select and activate various graphical images displayed on the display in order to initiate functions and tasks associated therewith. Input output subsystem may also include touch based devices such as touch pad and touch screen. A touchpad is an input device including a surface that detects touch based inputs of users. Similarly a touch screen is a display that detects the presence and location of user touch inputs. Input output system may also include dual touch or multi touch displays or touch pads that can identify the presence location and movement of more than one touch inputs such as two or three finger touches.

In particular embodiments computing platform may additionally comprise audio subsystem camera subsystem wireless communication subsystem sensor subsystems and or wired communication subsystem operably connected to controller to facilitate various functions of computing platform . For example Audio subsystem including a speaker a microphone and a codec module configured to process audio signals can be utilized to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions. For example camera subsystem including an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips. For example wired communication subsystem can include a Universal Serial Bus USB port for file transferring or a Ethernet port for connection to a local area network LAN .

Wireless communication subsystem can be designed to operate over one or more wireless networks for example a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN an infrared PAN a WI FI network such as for example an 802.11a b g n WI FI network an 802.11s mesh network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or a Long Term Evolution LTE network . Additionally wireless communication subsystem may include hosting protocols such that computing platform may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

Sensor subsystem may include one or more sensor devices to provide additional input and facilitate multiple functionalities of computing platform . For example sensor subsystems may include GPS sensor for location positioning altimeter for altitude positioning motion sensor for determining orientation of a mobile device light sensor for photographing function with camera subsystem temperature sensor for measuring ambient temperature and or biometric sensor for security application e.g. fingerprint reader .

In particular embodiments various components of computing platform may be operably connected together by one or more buses including hardware and or software . As an example and not by way of limitation the one or more buses may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART interface a Inter Integrated Circuit IC bus a Serial Peripheral Interface SPI bus a Secure Degital SD memory interface a MultiMediaCard MMC memory interface a Memory Stick MS memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Multi channel Buffered Serial Port McBSP bus a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Memory Controller GPMC bus a SDRAM Controller SDRC bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus a Separate Video S Video bus a Display Serial Interface DSI bus an Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture AMBA bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Additionally computing platform may be powered by power source .

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a MultiMediaCard MMC card an embedded MMC eMMC card or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl JavaScript or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

