---

title: Method and system for managing data usage for a service across multiple devices
abstract: An approach for managing the amount of data spent by one or more user devices on one or more services is described. A data usage analysis platform receives an input for specifying a data budget associated with a service, wherein the service operates on one or more devices. The data usage analysis platform also monitors data usage data associated with the service across the one or more devices. Still further, the data usage analysis platform presents a report of the data usage data with respect to the data budget.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09402004&OS=09402004&RS=09402004
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09402004
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been providing wireless device users with a convenient means of managing the amount of data they consume. For example some mobile device users have wireless data plans that limit them to a predefined amount of data or bandwidth capacity e.g. 1 5 Gigabytes GB on a monthly basis. Unfortunately this data may be easily consumed as the user employs their device to access streaming media services execute video chat sessions or perform other data intensive activities. Moreover the limited amount of data may be spent even faster when other mobile devices are associated with the same data plan.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for managing the amount of data spent by one or more user devices on one or more services.

An apparatus method and software for managing the amount of data spent by one or more user devices on one or more services is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As mentioned previously data may be used by devices in connection with the execution of various services where data is required to be transmitted and or acquired via the network in order to fulfill the needs of the user. For example a user may operate a service for streaming music or movie content to the user device on demand for entertainment purposes. As another example the user device may execute a service for enabling a video conference session or for engaging in social networking with peers. Still further many devices are now equipped with sensors for exchanging e.g. sending and receiving user device group and environmental data with a plethora of real time traffic weather exercise shopping financial and health monitoring or optimization services.

With the rise in popularity of such data rich services users must be vigilant in how they budget use their data especially in cases where the user has a limited amount of data to use for accessing a service provider network e.g. per their chosen data plan . For example a user that enjoys streaming movie services which typically requires the use of much data may quickly consume the limited amount of data afforded them on a monthly basis by the provider of the network. Unfortunately there is no convenient means for enabling a user to monitor and manage data usage with respect to different data services. Moreover there is no convenient means of enabling a user to properly budget a limited amount of data that is to be shared by multiple users or multiple devices i.e. a group of device users that share a pool of data per a single data plan.

To address this problem system of enables users to manage the use or spending of data for one or more devices that operate a service. In one embodiment the system includes a data usage analysis platform which facilitates the collecting monitoring and analysis of data usage data regarding one or more user devices referred to herein collectively as user devices as they interact with one or more data services referred to herein collectively as data services . In addition the platform may enable the generation of predictions and associated recommendations for budgeting the use of data by the one or more user devices and or users based on the aggregation and analysis of the data usage data over a specified period e.g. a week a month .

In one embodiment the data usage data may include any information for indicating the amount of data bandwidth e.g. a number of megabytes MB used a rate of consumption of data bandwidth e.g. a number of bytes per second session information e.g. session identifier and acknowledgement information or the like. In addition the data usage data may include information for specifying the type of service performed temporal information regarding the service network identification information regarding the user devices network identification information regarding the data services utilized by the user devices packet configuration type information or the like. Of note the data usage data may be stored to a database of the data usage analysis platform for supporting real time current and subsequent analysis of the data accordingly.

In one embodiment the data usage data is monitored and analyzed with respect to a user specified data budget input. By way of example the data budget may be provided as input per a user interface of the data usage analysis platform . The user interface may be rendered to the display of a user device by the platform as a configuration tool in connection with another application of the device with respect to a login interface to the network or a combination thereof. The data budget may be a value representing a portion of a total amount of data that is available for usage by a specific user a specific user device or a group thereof for accessing a specific data service . Thus the input may specify a data budget for the users individually or cumulatively on a user by user basis a device by device basis or a combination thereof. An input may be provided for each respective data service operable by the one or more users and or devices .

The data budget may be specified as an amount of bytes or a percentage of an amount of bandwidth or data to be associated with a data service for the one or more users and or devices . Alternatively the data budget may be specified as a monetary value as a point value a ranking or any other designation. As such the budget may be specified up to but not greater than the total amount of data and or bandwidth available e.g. on a monthly basis . In the case of a monetary input for example the data budget may be specified up to but not greater than the total cost of the data and or bandwidth e.g. on a monthly basis . Hence the data budget may represent a portion of a total available amount or cost of data to be used within the limits of a service agreement between a network service provider and at least one of the users. By way of example 4 gigabytes GB of a total of 25 GB of data may be budgeted to a first user of a first user device in connection with a social media data service . This specifies that the first user may not exceed 4 GB of data when accessing the social media service per the first user device. As another example the input may assign 3 GB of data to a second user of a second device for accessing the social networking service . As such the budget for the first and second users vary with the amount afforded the second user and second user device being less than that of the first user and first user device

As another example a third user may be budgeted a total of 4 GB of data without reference to a specific user device. Under this scenario the third user may access the social networking service by way of the first or second devices and up to the allotted amount. This may correspond for example to a scenario wherein the first second and third users are members of a common group e.g. a family group that shares one or more devices one or more network access points a subscription or a combination thereof. As yet another example the first second and third users may be budgeted a total of 18 dollars corresponding to 6 GB as a group for accessing the social networking service . Per this scenario when the first user uses 15 of the budget only 3 remains for usage by the group cumulatively. Alternatively the input may be specified to indicate an even allocation of the budget across each of the users and or user devices e.g. 18 divided by 3 users and or devices 6 corresponding to a device by device or user by user budget allocation.

It is noted that at least one of the users for providing the input may be a subscriber to the service provider network i.e. has access to the service provider network up to the total amount of data. Alternatively at least one of the users may have permissions as appropriated by the service provider and or subscriber along with the necessary credentials e.g. network access keys passwords for accessing the network and assigning a data budget to respective users and or devices regardless of their subscription status.

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform may be configured to monitor the operation of and or interaction between the user devices and a specified data service with respect to the established data budget. By way of example the platform may be implemented as a background running service or process for persistently monitoring data usage data with respect to a specific data service . As another example the platform may operate in the background e.g. at the user device for identifying whether a given user and or device is within the specified data budget. This may include monitoring the interaction between the user devices from the point of initiation of a session with the data service to fulfillment of a service request and or session termination. As such the data usage analysis platform may be configured to operate in connection with any applications referred to herein collectively as applications of the user device that communicate with a data service directly or indirectly.

Alternatively the platform may be configured to perform the monitoring in response to the invocation of specific application programming interface API executions data service calls or the like. For example when the API instruction for establishing a communication channel between the service and the calling application is executed the platform may be activated as well. Under this scenario the data usage analysis platform may self initiate and or self terminate its monitoring executions responsive to the initiation or termination of an API call at the user device for operating a data service . As such the platform need not run as persistently as a background process of the user device but is rather triggered for execution as needed. It is noted that any means of implementation of the platform may be employed for supporting the monitoring of data usage data including implementation as a cloud based or hosted solution of the user device as a direct executable of the device for invoking one or more API executions via the device operating system OS or a combination thereof.

A use case for depicting the monitoring capabilities of the data usage analysis platform is now described for illustration purposes. By way of example when the user launches a streaming movie application at the device the application may further initiate a call to a corresponding movie data service that hosts the movie content and other related data to access a specific movie for viewing. As a result of the call the data usage analysis platform records when the session was established between the calling application and the responding data service over the service provider network . In addition the platform monitors the subsequent exchange of data between the application the device and the data service pursuant to the interaction including the amount of data transmitted the rate of transmission of the movie data movie data request fulfillment information etc. via the network . Still further the platform monitors any contextual information gathered by way of sensors referred to herein collectively as sensors and subsequently transmitted between the device application and service during the network session. Hence the platform may identify monitor and record any data usage data associated with the calling device e.g. or calling application e.g. application as well as that of any other related calling device e.g. or application e.g. application that employs the same network access point subscription credentials or the like to interact with the movie data service via the network .

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform may analyze the data usage and generate a report for indicating the data usage data based on the analysis. The report may include various metrics for indicating the individual or cumulative data usage data for the one or more users and or one or more user devices . For example the report may indicate a rate of consumption usage of data an average rate of consumption usage of data a number of users and or devices being monitored or comprising a group a total amount of data and or corresponding monetary value of the data plan a remaining amount of data and or corresponding monetary value available to be spent per the established data budget occurrences of a user and or device exceeding or approaching of a limit as set per the data budget etc. The above described metrics and information may be presented on an individual or cumulative basis for respective users user devices and or data services .

In addition the report may be presented as a dashboard wherein the above described metrics is presented as one or more visual elements indicators charts textual elements audible or the like. For example a rate of consumption may be presented visually as a usage meter as a thermostat reading as an odometer etc. Still further the dashboard may enable the report to be responded to interactively by users as by including presenting various interactive input elements in connection with the report. The interactive elements may include for example one or more knobs sliding dials etc. for enabling the user to alter a view of the data and or adjust the data budget in response to the report. It is noted that per this reporting approach the data usage analysis platform may present the report and or dashboard to a user device based on the status or permissions afforded respective users and or user devices with respect to the service provider network. For example in the case where the user is the subscriber the report may be based on the individual users budgeted an amount of data as well as for the group as a whole. In the case where the user is not a subscriber and or not afforded permissions for budgeting data this user may be presented with only their individual report metrics.

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform may enforce the data budget as a data limit for the service the one or more users the one or more devices or a combination thereof. The enforcement may include one or more of limiting or restricting the operation of the service by a user or a user device. For example the platform may enable the specification of enforcement settings for indicating one or more time of day restrictions e.g. the one or more users are not allowed to access a service during weekdays or between the hours of 8 am and 3 pm one or more service type and or content type limits e.g. the one or more users are not allowed to purchase movie content but allowed to purchase music content one or more purchase limits one or more spending limits or a combination thereof.

In addition the enforcement may include presenting of the report to include a warning message or enforcement message. Per this scenario the warning message may indicate an individual user user device or group thereof is approaching the data limit to within a predetermined threshold . Still further the platform may present a message for indicating an option for the user to adapt the budget limit in response to the approaching of the data limit. In this case the user may be presented with various input elements for increasing the budget limit up to but not greater than the remaining amount or monetary value of the usable available data to within a predetermined threshold etc. In the latter case a user e.g. the subscriber or any other user having established budget data specification permissions may submit the input.

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform may also support and enforce the exchanging trading or selling of data between respective users of user device . Per this approach the exchange trade or sale may be performed based on the budget limit associated with a specific user the current amount of data usage or a combination thereof. Furthermore the exchange trade or sale may be executed manually such as with respect to a user interface for presenting a report of the data usage activity of other budgeted users or automatically by way of a simple messaging service SMS communication. In the former case a user may initiate the exchange by submitting a request to another user e.g. via a request action button such as in response to a display of an amount of data available to the user subject to the request. In the latter case the SMS message may specify the request. The users to be engaged in the exchange must have permission to do so i.e. subscriber permission. Alternatively the subscriber may also be required to validate each exchange trade or sale before enabling the transaction to occur.

In the case of a sale a first user may submit a request for a second user to sell an amount of its budgeted data. To procure the data the first user may offer the second user a number of points cash credits or other items of designated value. By way of example the cash credit may be used by the second user towards the purchase of music or movie content associated with a specific vendor incentive program or the like. As such the cash credit is debited from a bank pool of the first user buyer of the data and credited towards a bank pool of the second user accordingly for enabling movie game and or music purchases.

In the case of a trade a first user may offer to trade an amount of its budgeted data to a second user for a period of usage in exchange for usage of the second user s data for a period of usage. By way of example the first user may be a soccer fan that requires more data during the summer time while the second user is a National Football League NFL fan requiring more data during the fall and winter. Resultantly the users may agree to help each other by allocating a portion of their data to each other for a limited time period or according to a scheduled usage period. The agreement may also include various user conditions including a condition that the user that enabled use of their data to another may acquire the data back when needed that the data may be used for specific services only etc. Still further trading of data need not be byte for byte e.g. 100 Mb in exchange for 100 Mb . Rather the first user may demand 200 Mb in return for allocating only 100 Mb due to the high demand for access to their data by all other users.

As another trade example the first user may initiate a request to trade a portion of their data to the second user as an incentive. This may include allocating a portion of the data based on the occurrence of a birthday of a second user as a reward etc. Hence any of the above described exchange trade or selling procedures may be initiated on demand.

It is further contemplated in one embodiment that the above procedures may be initiated in response to a discovered data need. For example if a user is in the process of purchasing a movie but realizes their budget is too low to accommodate the request e.g. in terms of cash or data the data usage analysis platform may suggest the exchange trade or selling process. In addition the platform may specify one or more recommended parties to be involved in the exchange i.e. those with enough data to enable the user to view the movie. As yet another option the platform may present the user with an option to request additional data or cash credit from the subscriber e.g. the owner of the service agreement . Per these approaches the platform may send a text message or email to the subscriber and process it instantaneously. This enables the user to continue the movie purchase process in real time or near real time.

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform analyzes the data usage data as gathered with respect to the one or more users and or one or more user devices relative to a service over time to determine a data usage data pattern. The data usage data pattern may indicate one or more historical tendencies habits averages or the like regarding usage of the budgeted data by users devices and or groups thereof. As such this information may be presented as a separate historical report by the platform based on a user specified periodicity e.g. weekly monthly or quarterly . Alternatively the data usage data pattern and historical data usage data results may be presented as part of the above described dashboard i.e. as a chart.

By way of example the data usage data pattern may indicate a particular user of a music data service tends to substantially underutilize their data budget. As another example a data usage data pattern may be determined to indicate a first group of users within a workplace tend to meet the budget limit more rapidly than other groups of users at the same workplace. Per this example the average rate of data consumption e.g. bytes per second of the first group may be determined to exceed all other groups by x percentage. As yet another example a data usage data pattern may indicate a higher number of enforcement occurrences for a user device belonging to a child than other members of a family group. The data usage pattern may also indicate a typical time of occurrence of said enforcement limits.

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform may generate a recommended data budget to associate with the service based on the data usage data patterns. The recommendation may include a message for indicating an increase decrease or maintenance of a given data budget and may be based on analysis of the patterns. Per this approach for example the platform may generate a recommendation to increase the data budget for the above described first group of users within the workplace by 20 . In this case the increase may be based on known overage tendencies of the group as a whole or may be set accordingly by the employer as an incremental increase limit. As another example a recommendation may be generated for restricting use of a specific data service during a certain time period with respect to the child having the highest number of enforcement occurrences.

As yet another example the platform may process real time or current usage data patterns in order to forecast the amount of unused data of a user before the end of a billing cycle. Per this approach the subscriber may then allocate the expected unused data to another user that may put the data to use before the data is lost i.e. in the case where data does not roll over at the end of the cycle. It is contemplated in future embodiments that the recommendations may be further generated based on current or historical context information regarding the one or more users and or devices including temporal information calendar activity information location information etc.

As noted above the reports generated by the data usage analysis platform may be rendered to the display of a requesting user device upon demand for presenting real time current data usage data in response to the approaching of a limit as a warning message as a dashboard etc. In addition to being presented for review by users it is contemplated that the reports may be stored and maintained in database by the platform for future analysis by the provider of the service provider network the data service providers application providers or the like. Said parties may analyze the data with respect to established privacy and data sharing policies in an effort to identify the most popular applications or data services peak usage times of said services for performing capacity planning etc.

In one embodiment the data usage analysis platform may operate in connection with any type device capable of interfacing with or accessing a data service via a network . This may include for example a mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone or any combination thereof. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving information from a user for configuring operation of the data usage analysis platform including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable.

In certain embodiments user devices the data usage analysis platform the applications the data services and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

The authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the data usage analysis platform . Authentication may occur based at least in part on processing of a specified authentication credential password key or the like as generated in connection with a specific user name device identifier subscriber identifier network address or the like. As such the authentication module may allow or prohibit users from specifying a data budget based on whether or not the user is a registered subscriber to a data plan of a provider of the service provider network . In addition the authentication module may receive an input for specifying the one or more users and or user devices to be monitored for determining data usage data.

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Subscription data for respective subscribers which contains pertinent user and or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

The context processing module may operate in connection with the authentication module to process contextual information regarding the one or more users one or more devices or a combination thereof that access a specific data service . By way of example the context information may include temporal information location information session identifier information or the like for indicating a current activity of a user and or user device as they engage with a data service . The context information may also be shared with the usage determination module enforcement module and report generation module for determining a time and or duration of use of a data budget enabling the enforcement of a data limit and for refining the data usage data reports respectively.

The usage determination module may operate in connection with the enforcement module to monitor data usage data as spent by a user. By way of example the usage determination module may monitor the interaction between the one or more specified users user devices or a group thereof. This may include monitoring one or more of the following the launch of the service the initiation of the communication session via the network between the user device and the service the exchange of data between the user device and the service the fulfillment of a service request pursuant to the exchange the termination of the session etc. Per the monitoring the module may also tabulate a number monetary value and or amount of data transmitted as well as compute a rate of data transfer for the one or more users and or one or more devices on an individual or cumulative basis.

The enforcement module may receive and process the input for establishing the budget data for respective users user devices and or groups thereof. In addition the module enforces the budget data as a data limit. By way of example the budget data may be specified by a user as a monetary value as a data size as a data rate etc. up to but not greater than the total amount of data and or total monetary value of the data plan of the subscriber. In addition the enforcement module may execute various enforcement measures in response to the determination of an approaching of the data limit. The measures may include for example limiting or restricting the operation of the service by a user or a user device invoking execution of a report generation module to generate and present a report for indicating a warning message or enforcement message presenting a message for indicating an option for the user to adapt the budget limit in response to the approaching of the data limit etc.

The report generation module may operate in connection with the usage determination module to determine data usage data patterns associated with the one or more users and or one or more user devices . The module may further analyze the patterns to determine one or more historical tendencies habits averages or the like regarding usage of the budgeted data by users devices and or groups thereof. Based on this analysis the data usage data pattern and historical data usage data results may be triggered for presentment as a report via the report generation module . In addition the report generation module may generate one or more recommended actions to be taken based on the analysis including an increasing or decreasing of a data budget for the one or more users and or one or more user devices .

The user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting the reports the data usage data and data usage data patterns etc. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to a browser application web portal application or other network access interface of the user devices . In addition the user interface module may operate in connection with a dedicated application of a data service to be called by the device . As such the user interface module may enable execution of various graphics primitives for rendering an interactive dashboard.

The communication interface enables formation of a session over a network between the data usage analysis platform and the user device as it interacts with a data service . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the platform .

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The above presented modules and components of the data usage analysis platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective user devices . Hence as noted the platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the user device for interacting with the browser application and accessing content . Of further note modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a platform cloud based solution hosted solution or a combination thereof.

In step of process the data usage analysis platform receives an input for specifying a data budget associated with a service. The service may be a data service that is accessible by or operable upon the one or more devices. Also as noted previously the input may specify the data budget for one or more users of the one or more devices individually or cumulatively on a user by user basis a device by device basis or a combination thereof. In steps and respectively the platform monitors the data usage data associated with the service across the one or more devices and presents a report of the data usage data with respect to the data budget.

In step of process the data usage analysis platform monitors the data usage data across the one or more devices respectively for the one or more users the one or more devices or a combination thereof. By way of example the report specifies the data with respect to the data budget for the one or more users the one or devices or a combination thereof individually or cumulatively. As noted the report may depict current and or historical data usage data for the one or more devices. Also as mentioned previously the data budget may be specified as a monetary value as a percentage as an amount of data or a combination thereof of a total amount of data associated with the one or more users the one or devices or a combination thereof individually or cumulatively.

In another step the data usage analysis platform determines a data usage data pattern for the service another service the one or more users the one or more devices or a combination thereof based on the monitoring of the data usage data for a specified period. As noted the data usage data pattern may include information for indicating a tendency behavior average or the like with respect to a given user and or user device with respect to a specified service . In step the platform processes the data usage data to predict future data usage data for the service another service the one or more users the one or more devices or a combination thereof. Hence the data usage data pattern may be used to generate the prediction.

Per step the data usage analysis platform generates a recommended data budget to associate with the service based on the data usage data pattern. As mentioned previously the report may include the recommended data budget the data usage data pattern the data usage data one or more dashboard elements or a combination thereof.

In step of process the data usage analysis platform enforces the data budget as a data limit for the service the one or more users the one or more devices or a combination thereof. The data limit may be up to but not greater than the total amount of data available for usage by the one or more users the one or more user devices the services or a combination thereof. Of note the report may further include a message regarding a the enforcing of the data limit b an approaching of the data limit or c a combination thereof in association with the one or more users of the one or more devices individually or cumulatively on a user by user basis a device by device basis or a combination thereof. In another step the platform receives an input for adapting the data budget associated with the service. As noted the input for adapting the data budget may be provided by at least one of the one or more users or automatically by the platform in response to the report.

In Joe accesses a configuration interface of the data usage analysis platform . The configuration interface presents him with information regarding his data available data which in this case is 25 GB per month. In addition an input option is presented for enabling him to specify a budget data amount for the group. In this example Joe specifies a data budget of 10 GB per month. Also presented are user selection buttons for enabling Joe to select a specific user device to configure for access to the budgeted data . By way of example Joe may configure his own user device by selecting button which also results in the presentment of a list of services that may be accessed via the network.

Under this scenario the list of services include a movie streaming service e.g. Movie Goo a music streaming service e.g. ACME Music a news content service e.g. Newsfeed a mail service e.g. Big Mail a social networking service e.g. GoBee Social and a browser application for accessing content. Also presented next to each list entry is an input field i.e. input field for enabling Joe to specify an amount of data to be budgeted to the service by the user. In this case Joe specifies the highest budget data amounts to the movie streaming service 1 GB and the social networking service 1 GB both of which are the services he most often uses via his device . Still further he budgets 500 MB to the remaining services for a total budgeted amount of 4 GB.

Still further Joe may further modify the budgeted amounts by adjusting the inputs manually or by way of action buttons and . The action buttons include an EVEN SPLIT action button which upon selection splits the user specified user budgeted amount across each of the services in the list evenly. Alternatively the SPLIT THE REST action button splits the remaining data of the total user budgeted amount evenly across those services for which a budget is not already specified. In this case Joe selects action button after entering the amounts for Movie Goo and GoBee Social which results in the even allocation of the remaining 2 GB across the remaining services e.g. 500 MB .

An indicator is also updated to reflect a remaining amount of data available for use by the one or more other users e.g. Kay and Leo and or user devices. It is noted that the indicator may also be dynamically adapted as the current spending of data occurs with respect to any of the users during the configuration. For example while Joe is updating the budget Kay may be currently watching a video resulting in the spending of 250 MB. As such indicator would specify that only 5.75 GB of data is currently available for use. The user may opt to adapt the group budget limit accordingly based on this information as well.

Once the budget data settings are established Joe may select the NEXT action button in order to establish additional configuration settings. The settings include various options for enforcing the data budget for a given service including an option to alert users of the data usage data or approaching of a data limit. In addition a threshold input may be specified for establishing a condition for execution of the alert based on an amount of data usage e.g. a threshold of 10 results in generation of an alert once the data usage consumption is within 10 of the budgeted value for a service. Still further the settings include an option to activate a dashboard view as well as an option to activate one or more restrictions.

As another option the user may opt to save data usage data for a specified period time as historic data. By selecting this option the data usage analysis platform stores data usage data patterns and other relevant information to the reports database for subsequent processing. Another option includes an option to allow any of the users of the group aside from the subscriber to make budget data changes. Selection of this option enables Kay and Leo to adapt the budget as they see fit to within the group budget limit based on availability with the full permission of the subscriber Joe . It is noted that these options may be activated by way of one or more corresponding checkboxes e.g. checkbox for activating alerts . Once selections are made Joe may select another user to configure e.g. via button or can go back to the previous configuration interface by selecting the BACK action button . Alternatively Joe may save the current settings by selecting the SAVE action button .

In Joe is presented with a dashboard interface for reviewing a report regarding the use of data for the group as a whole or for each individual. In this example Joe notices Leo is ranked number one in terms of data usage by way of a ranking indicator while he himself is ranked number per indicator . Resultantly Joe selects user selection button in order to review the data usage data report for Leo. Upon selection the budget data for Leo is shown along with a real time pie chart for depicting a breakdown of the current data usage data for each service. In addition metrics and are presented for indicating a current amount of data used by Leo amongst all the services along with a current rate of spending. Under this scenario the metrics are presented as a percentage of the overall data budget along with the corresponding monetary value of the data usage. Joe may adapt the format of the report by selecting the settings link . In addition Joe may highlight a segment of the pie chart i.e. segment in order to view metrics and and or dashboard controls and for only the selected service e.g. Movie Goo versus the cumulative results.

Also presented per the dashboard is a threshold adjustment dial . Per this control Joe has the option to increase or decrease a current threshold setting of 10 as established with respect to Leo s device. In the case where the current rate of spending is deemed to be high Joe may decide to increase the threshold as a means of triggering the alerting and or enforcement options soon than the current threshold setting may allow. Also presented is a time availability adjustment dial which allows Joe to adapt the duration of time for operating a service at the current spending rate . It is noted that the time availability information may automatically be adjusted by the platform in response to adapting of the threshold value in response to further consumption of data etc. Furthermore Joe may select the more data link in order to select additional data to be presented to the dashboard .

In Leo is presented with a dashboard for presenting his data usage data activity. In this scenario based on the permissions afforded him by the subscriber Joe Leo is only able to review data usage data pertaining to his activity and not that of the other users that access the same services. Thus Leo is presented with information for indicating his current activity ranking as the number one consumer of shared data. Also presented is the pie chart view for demonstrating his overall data usage activity across different data services and metrics for indicating his current level of data usage data and rate of spending . Still further per this scenario and the permissions established by Joe Leo is able to make adjustments to the established threshold level and time availability via dashboard controls and respectively.

Leo is also presented with a recommendation for indicating a suggested activity action he is to take based on his determined data usage data. In addition the recommendation specifies a historical fact regarding Leo s typical data consumption based on analysis of historical data collected over a period of time. Of note one or more restrictions may also be imposed upon Leo depending on the settings established by Joe with regard to his data usage data and or patterns. Still further Joe is presented with an ADJUSTMENT action button for enabling him to adjust his budget data. Upon selection of this action button Joe may be presented with an input not shown for increasing and or decreasing the amount of data budgeted to him. It is noted that in certain implementations the adjustment may be submitted as a request to Joe that must be subsequently approved. Once approved the data budget indicator is updated accordingly.

In an email report is delivered to Joe on a monthly basis for indicating the overall data usage data activity on a user by user and or device by device basis. In this example the message is automatically generated by way of a scripting agent of the data usage analysis platform . The report includes information for indicating current plan details including the name of the subscriber the overall data plan limit and the monetary value cost of the data plan on a monthly basis. The plan details also indicate which users and devices are registered to access the data plan which in this case is only devices and . Thus Kay shares a device with Joe.

The report also indicates the current budget settings which includes budget data associated with the group e.g. 10 GB mo as well as the settings for each of the group members individually. Of note the budget is presented as both an amount of data budgeted as well an equivalent monetary value. As such Joe is able to identify the relative value of the data and portion of the cost afforded each of the users. In addition a chart is presented for indicating the data usage activity for the month. Joe is able to readily identify the low level of activity throughout the month by Kay and the high level of data usage data for Leo. Alternatively the chart may be a historical plot depicting the activity levels of the respective users over a longer time period.

The report also presents a breakdown of the data usage for the month on a user by user basis e.g. and . This section of the report indicates the device and corresponding user as well as the budget data associated with the user and or device. The budget data is presented as a data amount a monetary value e.g. dollar amount and as a percentage of the overall available data of the subscriber plan. In addition the specific services activities are also specified. Still further the total spending amount and amount of the budgeted data that went unspent is presented along with a monthly average spending report for indicating the user rank information. By way of this information Joe may readily identify that his spending for this month is above his historical average. Upon scrolling down not shown the report may further specify the data usage data breakdown for Kay and Leo as well for the plurality of services they may utilize.

In the backend of the report is shown to include an analysis report . The analysis report may be generated by the data usage analysis platform based on known analysis metrics criteria data mining techniques and the like for identifying various trends tendencies and patterns amongst the user and or user devices. In this example the analysis includes a determination that the subscriber is the second ranked user of data amongst services as well as a determination that Kay only uses her data budget on a limited basis during specific months. The analysis also reveals that Leo tends to have restrictions enforced due to his data usage data patterns and history.

The report therefore presents one or more recommendations considerations for the user to execute based on the analysis . Per this example the recommendations include reducing the budget data for Joe to only 2.5 GB given that his typical data usage is only 2.2 GB. Another recommendation is to increase Leo s budget data to 4.0 GB given his tendency to spend up to the data limit every month. Still further given the limited activity of Kay a recommendation is presented for indicating a reduced data budget be assigned to Kay during certain months while an increased data budget be assigned to her during her most active months.

It is noted that the user may customize the report to their liking by way the configuration interface of the data usage analysis platform . This may include for example adjusting the format of the report including or excluding certain information enabling forwarding of the report to other users on an individual basis and adjusting the frequency of generation of the report. Still further while presented in this example as an email report at the discretion of the subscriber it is noted that the report may be presented in dashboard form only. The data usage analysis platform provides a flexible convenient means of managing and enforcing a data budget for one or more devices and or users relative to a service.

The processes described herein for managing the amount of data spent by one or more user devices on one or more services may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to manage the amount of data spent by one or more user devices on one or more services. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

