---

title: Wheat cultivar HV9W08-1836
abstract: The invention relates to the wheat cultivar designated HV9W08-1836. Provided by the invention are the seeds, plants and derivatives of the wheat cultivar HV9W08-1836. Also provided by the invention are tissue cultures of the wheat cultivar HV9W08-1836 and the plants regenerated therefrom. Still further provided by the invention are methods for producing wheat plants by crossing the wheat cultivar HV9W08-1836 with itself or another wheat cultivar and plants produced by such methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258972&OS=09258972&RS=09258972
owner: Monsanto Technology LLC
number: 09258972
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140721
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 858 974 filed Jul. 26 2013 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to the field of wheat breeding. In particular the invention relates to the new and distinctive wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836.

There are numerous steps in the development of any novel desirable plant germplasm. Plant breeding begins with the analysis and definition of problems and weaknesses of the current germplasm the establishment of program goals and the definition of specific breeding objectives. The next step is selection of germplasm that possess the traits to meet the program goals. The goal is to combine in a single variety an improved combination of desirable traits from the parental germplasm. These important traits may include higher seed yield resistance to diseases and insects better stems and roots tolerance to drought and heat better agronomic quality resistance to herbicides and improvements in compositional traits.

Wheat may be classified into six different market classes. Five of these including common wheat hard red winter hard red spring soft red winter and white belong to the species L. and the sixth durum belongs to the species L. Wheat may be used to produce a variety of products including but not limited to grain flour baked goods cereals crackers pasta beverages livestock feed biofuel straw construction materials and starches. The hard wheat classes are milled into flour used for breads while the soft wheat classes are milled into flour used for pastries and crackers. Wheat starch is used in the food and paper industries as laundry starches among other products.

One aspect of the present invention relates to seed of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. The invention also relates to plants produced by growing the seed of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 as well as the derivatives of such plants. Further provided are plant parts including cells plant protoplasts plant cells of a tissue culture from which wheat plants can be regenerated plant calli plant clumps and plant cells that are intact in plants or parts of plants such as leaves stems roots root tips anthers pistils seed grain pericarp embryo pollen ovules cotyledon hypocotyl spike floret awn lemma shoot tissue petiole cells and meristematic cells and the like.

In a further aspect the invention provides a composition comprising a seed of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 comprised in plant seed growth media. In certain embodiments the plant seed growth media is a soil or synthetic cultivation medium. In specific embodiments the growth medium may be comprised in a container or may for example be soil in a field. Plant seed growth media are well known to those of skill in the art and include but are in no way limited to soil or synthetic cultivation medium. Advantageously plant seed growth media can provide adequate physical support for seeds and can retain moisture and or nutritional components. Examples of characteristics for soils that may be desirable in certain embodiments can be found for instance in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 932 166 and 4 707 176. Synthetic plant cultivation media are also well known in the art and may in certain embodiments comprise polymers or hydrogels. Examples of such compositions are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 241 537.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a tissue culture of regenerable cells of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 as well as plants regenerated therefrom wherein the regenerated wheat plant is capable of expressing all the physiological and morphological characteristics of a plant grown from the wheat seed designated HV9W08 1836.

Yet another aspect of the current invention is a wheat plant comprising a single locus conversion of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 wherein the wheat plant is otherwise capable of expressing all the physiological and morphological characteristics of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. In particular embodiments of the invention the single locus conversion may comprise a transgenic gene which has been introduced by genetic transformation into the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 or a progenitor thereof. In still other embodiments of the invention the single locus conversion may comprise a dominant or recessive allele. The locus conversion may confer potentially any trait upon the single locus converted plant including but not limited to herbicide resistance insect resistance resistance to bacterial fungal or viral disease male fertility or sterility and improved nutritional quality.

Still yet another aspect of the invention relates to a first generation F hybrid wheat seed produced by crossing a plant of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 to a second wheat plant. Also included in the invention are the Fhybrid wheat plants grown from the hybrid seed produced by crossing the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 to a second wheat plant. Still further included in the invention are the seeds of an Fhybrid plant produced with the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 as one parent the second generation F hybrid wheat plant grown from the seed of the Fhybrid plant and the seeds of the Fhybrid plant.

Still yet another aspect of the invention is a method of producing wheat seeds comprising crossing a plant of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 to any second wheat plant including itself or another plant of the cultivar HV9W08 1836. In particular embodiments of the invention the method of crossing comprises the steps of a planting seeds of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 b cultivating wheat plants resulting from said seeds until said plants bear flowers c allowing fertilization of the flowers of said plants and d harvesting seeds produced from said plants.

Still yet another aspect of the invention is a method of producing hybrid wheat seeds comprising crossing the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 to a second distinct wheat plant that is nonisogenic to the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. In particular embodiments of the invention the crossing comprises the steps of a planting seeds of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 and a second distinct wheat plant b cultivating the wheat plants grown from the seeds until the plants bear flowers c cross pollinating a flower on one of the two plants with the pollen of the other plant and d harvesting the seeds resulting from the cross pollinating.

Still yet another aspect of the invention is a method for developing a wheat plant in a wheat breeding program comprising a obtaining a wheat plant or its parts of the cultivar HV9W08 1836 and b employing said plant or parts as a source of breeding material using plant breeding techniques. In the method the plant breeding techniques may be selected from the group consisting of recurrent selection mass selection bulk selection backcrossing pedigree breeding genetic marker assisted selection and genetic transformation. In certain embodiments of the invention the wheat plant of cultivar HV9W08 1836 may be used as the male or female parent.

Still yet another aspect of the invention is a method of producing a wheat plant derived from the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 the method comprising the steps of a preparing a progeny plant derived from wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 by crossing a plant of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 with a second wheat plant and b crossing the progeny plant with itself or a second plant to produce a progeny plant of a subsequent generation which is derived from a plant of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. In one embodiment of the invention the method further comprises c crossing the progeny plant of a subsequent generation with itself or a second plant and d repeating steps b and c for in some embodiments at least 2 3 4 or more additional generations to produce an inbred wheat plant derived from the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. Also provided by the invention is a plant produced by this and the other methods of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention the method of producing a wheat plant derived from the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 further comprises a crossing the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 derived wheat plant with itself or another wheat plant to yield additional wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 derived progeny wheat seed b growing the progeny wheat seed of step a under plant growth conditions to yield additional wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 derived wheat plants and c repeating the crossing and growing steps of a and b to generate further wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 derived wheat plants. In specific embodiments steps a and b may be repeated at least 1 2 3 4 or 5 or more times as desired. The invention still further provides a wheat plant produced by this and the foregoing methods.

Reference now will be made in detail to the embodiments of the invention one or more examples of which are set forth below. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the invention not a limitation of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For instance features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used on another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment.

Thus it is intended that the present invention covers such modifications and variations as come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents. Other objects features and aspects of the present invention are disclosed in or are obvious from the following detailed description. It is to be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present discussion is a description of exemplary embodiments only and is not intended as limiting the broader aspects of the present invention.

In an embodiment the invention is directed to wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 its seeds plants and hybrids. Wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is a hard red winter type common wheat bred for fall and winter planting in the central plains region of the United States. The primary usage of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is for production of grain but it can also be used for production of silage harvested in the soft dough stage.

Wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is a common wheat cultivar developed from an F1 selection made in 2004 from the initial cross KS00F5 14 7 JAGALENE VA97W 375WS. KS00F5 14 7 is a line developed by Kansas State University with an unknown pedigree but believed to be the variety Jagger and a KSU experimental. This line became the variety Fuller. Jagalene is a variety developed by Agripro with the pedigree Abilene Jagger. VA97W 375WS is a line developed by Virginia Tech with the pedigree Coker 9803 Freedom. The F1 selection was self pollinated and the pedigree system of breeding was then used to develop and select HV9W08 1836 which is an F3 level selection. Some criteria used for selection in various generations include yield test weight plant height resistance to lodging maturity vigor and disease response.

Wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 has shown uniformity and stability in appearance and performance across several generations F5 F8 . The variety has been increased with continued observation for uniformity of plant type as described in the following variety description information.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a wheat plant having the physiological and morphological characteristics of HV9W08 1836 as presented in Table 1. Those of skill in the art will recognize that these are typical values that may vary due to environment and that other values that are substantially equivalent are within the scope of the invention.

In an embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising a seed of HV9W08 1836 comprised in plant seed growth media. Advantageously plant seed growth media can provide adequate physical support for seeds and can retain moisture and or nutritional components. In certain embodiments the plant seed growth media is a soil or synthetic cultivation medium. Any plant seed growth media known in the art may be utilized in this embodiment and the invention is in no way limited to soil or synthetic cultivation medium. Examples of characteristics for soils that may be desirable in certain embodiments can be found for instance in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 932 166 and 4 707 176. Plant cultivation media are well known in the art and may in certain embodiments comprise polymers hydrogels or the like. Examples of such compositions are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 241 537. In specific embodiments the growth medium may be comprised in a container or may for example be soil in a field.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to methods for producing a wheat plant by crossing a first parent wheat plant with a second parent wheat plant wherein the first or second wheat plant is the wheat plant from the cultivar HV9W08 1836. In an embodiment the first and second parent wheat plants may be from the cultivar HV9W08 1836 i.e. self pollination . Any methods using the cultivar HV9W08 1836 are part of this invention selfing backcrosses hybrid breeding and crosses to populations. Any plants produced using cultivar HV9W08 1836 as a parent are within the scope of this invention. In certain embodiments the invention is also directed to cells that upon growth and differentiation produce a cultivar having essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of HV9W08 1836. The present invention additionally contemplates in various embodiments a wheat plant regenerated from a tissue culture of cultivar HV9W08 1836.

In some embodiments of the invention the invention is directed to a transgenic variant of HV9W08 1836. A transgenic variant of HV9W08 1836 may contain at least one transgene but could contain at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more transgenes. In another embodiment a transgenic variant of HV9W08 1836 may contain no more than 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 or 2 transgenes. Another embodiment of the invention involves a process for producing wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 further comprising a desired trait said process comprising introducing a transgene that confers a desired trait to a wheat plant of cultivar HV9W08 1836. Methods for producing transgenic plants have been developed and are well known in the art. As part of the invention one of ordinary skill in the art may utilize any method of producing transgenic plants which is currently known or yet to be developed.

Numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed including biological and physical plant transformation protocols. In addition expression vectors and in vitro culture methods for plant cell or tissue transformation and regeneration of plants are available.

In certain embodiments the desired trait may be one or more of herbicide tolerance or resistance insect resistance or tolerance disease resistance or tolerance resistance for bacterial viral or fungal disease male fertility male sterility decreased phytate or modified fatty acid or carbohydrate metabolism. The specific transgene may be any known in the art or listed herein including but not limited to a polynucleotide conferring resistance to imidazolinone dicamba sulfonylurea glyphosate glufosinate triazine benzonitrile cyclohexanedione phenoxy propionic acid and L phosphinothricin a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide a polynucleotide encoding phytase FAD 2 FAD 3 galactinol synthase or a raffinose synthetic enzyme or various viruses or bacteria.

Various genetic elements can be introduced into the plant genome using transformation. These elements include but are not limited to genes coding sequences inducible constitutive and tissue specific promoters enhancing sequences and signal and targeting sequences.

In some embodiments the invention comprises a HV9W08 1836 plant that has been developed using both genetic engineering and traditional breeding techniques. For example a genetic trait may have been engineered into the genome of a particular wheat plant may then be moved into the genome of a HV9W08 1836 plant using traditional breeding techniques that are well known in the plant breeding arts. Likewise a genetic trait that has been engineered into the genome of a HV9W08 1836 wheat plant may then be moved into the genome of another variety using traditional breeding techniques that are well known in the plant breeding arts. A backcrossing approach is commonly used to move a transgene or transgenes from a transformed wheat variety into an already developed wheat variety and the resulting backcross conversion plant would then comprise the transgene s .

Plant transformation involves the construction of an expression vector that will function in plant cells. Such a vector may comprise DNA comprising a gene under control of or operatively linked to a regulatory element for example a promoter . The expression vector may contain one or more such operably linked gene regulatory element combinations. The vector s may be in the form of a plasmid and can be used alone or in combination with other plasmids to provide transformed wheat plants using transformation methods as described below to incorporate transgenes into the genetic material of the wheat plant s .

Expression vectors may include at least one genetic marker operably linked to a regulatory element that allows transformed cells containing the marker to be either recovered by negative selection i.e. inhibiting growth of cells that do not contain the selectable marker gene or by positive selection i.e. screening for the product encoded by the genetic marker. Many commonly used selectable marker genes for plant transformation are well known in the transformation arts and may include for example genes that code for enzymes that metabolically detoxify a selective chemical agent which may be an antibiotic or an herbicide or genes that encode an altered target which is insensitive to the inhibitor. Positive selection methods are also known in the art.

One commonly used selectable marker gene for plant transformation is the neomycin phosphotransferase II nptII gene which when under the control of plant regulatory signals confers resistance to kanamycin. Another commonly used selectable marker gene is the hygromycin phosphotransferase gene which confers resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin.

Additional selectable marker genes of bacterial origin that confer resistance to antibiotics include gentamycin acetyl transferase streptomycin phosphotransferase and aminoglycoside 3 adenyl transferase the bleomycin resistance determinant. Other selectable marker genes confer tolerance or resistance to herbicides such as glyphosate glufosinate or bromoxynil or the like.

Other selectable marker genes for plant transformation that are not of bacterial origin may include for example mouse dihydrofolate reductase plant 5 enolpyruvyl shikimate 3 phosphate synthase and plant acetolactate synthase.

Another class of marker genes for plant transformation requires screening of presumptively transformed plant cells rather than direct genetic selection of transformed cells for resistance to a toxic substance such as an antibiotic. These genes are particularly useful to quantify or visualize the spatial pattern of expression of a gene in specific tissues and are frequently referred to as reporter genes because they can be fused to a gene or gene regulatory sequence for the investigation of gene expression. Commonly used genes for screening presumptively transformed cells include glucuronidase GUS galactosidase luciferase and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase. In vivo methods for visualizing GUS activity that do not require destruction of plant tissue are also available. More recently a gene encoding Green Fluorescent Protein GFP has been utilized as a marker for gene expression in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. GFP and mutants of GFP may also be used as screenable markers.

Genes included in expression vectors must be driven by a nucleotide sequence comprising a regulatory element for example a promoter. Many types of promoters are well known in the transformation arts as are other regulatory elements that can be used alone or in combination with promoters.

As used herein promoter includes reference to a region of DNA upstream of the start of transcription and involved in recognition and binding of RNA polymerase and other proteins to initiate transcription. A plant promoter is a promoter capable of initiating transcription in plant cells. Examples of promoters under developmental control include promoters that preferentially initiate transcription in certain tissues such as leaves roots seeds fibers xylem vessels tracheids or sclerenchyma. Such promoters may be referred to as tissue preferred. Promoters that initiate transcription only in certain tissue are referred to as tissue specific. A cell type specific promoter primarily drives expression in certain cell types in one or more organs for example vascular cells in roots or leaves. An inducible promoter is a promoter under environmental control. Examples of environmental conditions that may affect transcription by inducible promoters include anaerobic conditions or the presence of light. Tissue specific tissue preferred cell type specific and inducible promoters constitute the class of non constitutive promoters. A constitutive promoter is a promoter that is active under most environmental conditions.

A. Inducible Promoters An inducible promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in wheat. Optionally the inducible promoter may be operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence that is operably linked to a gene for expression in wheat. With an inducible promoter the rate of transcription increases in response to an inducing agent.

Any inducible promoter may be used in the present invention. Exemplary inducible promoters include but are not limited to those from the ACEI system which respond to copper and the In2 gene from maize which responds to benzene sulfonamide herbicide safeners. In an embodiment the inducible promoter may be a promoter that responds to an inducing agent to which plants do not normally respond. An exemplary inducible promoter may be an inducible promoter from a steroid hormone gene the transcriptional activity of which is induced by a glucocorticosteroid hormone.

B. Constitutive Promoters A constitutive promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in wheat or is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence that is operably linked to a gene for expression in wheat.

Many different constitutive promoters can be utilized in the present invention. Exemplary constitutive promoters include but are not limited to the promoters from plant viruses such as the 35S promoter from CaMV and the promoters from such genes as rice actin ubiquitin pEMU MAS and maize H3 histone. The ALS promoter Xbal Ncol fragment 5 to the ALS3 structural gene or a nucleotide sequence similarity to said Xbal Ncol fragment represents a particularly useful constitutive promoter.

C. Tissue specific or Tissue preferred Promoters A tissue specific promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in wheat. The tissue specific promoter may be operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence that is operably linked to a gene for expression in wheat. Plants transformed with a gene of interest operably linked to a tissue specific promoter may produce the protein product of the transgene exclusively or preferentially in a specific tissue.

Any tissue specific or tissue preferred promoter can be utilized in the present invention. Exemplary tissue specific or tissue preferred promoters include but are not limited to a root preferred promoter such as that from the phaseolin gene a leaf specific and light induced promoter such as that from cab or rubisco an anther specific promoter such as that from LAT52 a pollen specific promoter such as that from Zml 3 or a microspore preferred promoter such as that from apg.

Transport of protein produced by transgenes to a subcellular compartment such as the chloroplast vacuole peroxisome glyoxysome cell wall or mitochondrion or for secretion into the apoplast is accomplished by means of operably linking the nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence to the 5 and or 3 region of a gene encoding the protein of interest. Targeting sequences at the 5 and or 3 end of the structural gene may determine during protein synthesis and processing where the encoded protein is ultimately compartmentalized. The presence of a signal sequence directs a polypeptide to either an intracellular organelle or subcellular compartment or for secretion to the apoplast. Many signal sequences are known in the art.

Using transgenic plants according to the present invention a foreign protein can be produced in commercial quantities. Thus techniques for the selection and propagation of transformed plants which are well understood in the art yield a plurality of transgenic plants that may be harvested in a conventional manner. A foreign protein can then be extracted from a tissue of interest or from total biomass. Protein extraction from plant biomass can be accomplished by known methods.

According to an embodiment of the invention the transgenic plant provided for commercial production of foreign protein is or is derived from a HV9W08 1836 wheat plant. In another embodiment the biomass of interest is or is derived from a HV9W08 1836 seed. For the relatively small number of transgenic plants that show higher levels of expression a genetic map can be generated primarily via conventional restriction fragment length polymorphism RFLP polymerase chain reaction PCR and simple sequence repeat SSR analysis which identify the approximate chromosomal location of the integrated DNA molecule. Map information concerning chromosomal location is useful for proprietary protection of a subject transgenic plant. If unauthorized propagation is undertaken and crosses made with other germplasm the map of the integration region can be compared to similar maps for suspect plants to determine if the latter have a common parentage with the subject plant. Map comparisons would involve hybridizations RFLP PCR SSR and sequencing all of which are conventional techniques well known in the art.

In certain embodiments the invention comprises transformed HV9W08 1836 plants that express particular agronomic genes or phenotypes of agronomic interest. Exemplary genes implicated in this regard include but are not limited to those categorized below 

A. Plant disease tolerance or resistance genes. Plant defenses are often activated by specific interaction between the product of a disease tolerance or resistance gene R in the plant and the product of a corresponding avirulence Avr gene in the pathogen. A plant variety can be transformed with one or more cloned resistance genes to engineer plants that are resistant to specific pathogen strains.

C. A protein a derivative thereof or a synthetic polypeptide modeled thereon. Moreover DNA molecules encoding 8 endotoxin genes can be purchased from American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. for example under ATCC Accession Nos. 40098 67136 31995 and 31998.

F. An enzyme inhibitor for example a protease or proteinase inhibitor or an amylase inhibitor. For example the nucleotide sequences of rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor cDNA encoding tobacco proteinase inhibitor I and amylase inhibitor are known in the art.

G. An insect specific hormone or pheromone such as an ecdysteroid and juvenile hormone a variant thereof a mimetic based thereon or an antagonist or agonist thereof. For example the baculovirus expression of cloned juvenile hormone esterase an inactivator of juvenile hormone is known in the art.

H. An insect specific peptide or neuropeptide which upon expression disrupts the physiology of the affected pest. For example it is known that expression cloning yields DNA coding for insect diuretic hormone receptor and an allostatin can be identified in . Genes encoding insect specific paralytic neurotoxins are also known in the art.

I. An insect specific venom produced in nature by a snake a wasp etc. For example heterologous expression in plants of a gene coding for a scorpion insectotoxic peptide is known in the art.

J. An enzyme responsible for a hyper accumulation of a monoterpene a sesquiterpene a steroid a hydroxamic acid a phenylpropanoid derivative or another non protein molecule with insecticidal activity.

K. An enzyme involved in the modification including the post translational modification of a biologically active molecule. For example such enzymes include but are not limited to a glycolytic enzyme a proteolytic enzyme a lipolytic enzyme a nuclease a cyclase a callase a transaminase an esterase a hydrolase a phosphatase a kinase a phosphorylase a polymerase an elastase a chitinase and a glucanase whether natural or synthetic. DNA molecules that contain chitinase encoding sequences can be obtained for example from the ATCC under Accession Nos. 39637 and 67152. The nucleotide sequences of a cDNA encoding tobacco hookworm chitinase and parsley ubi4 2 polyubiquitin gene are also known in the art.

L. A molecule that stimulates signal transduction. For example the nucleotide sequences for mung bean calmodulin cDNA clones and a maize calmodulin cDNA clone are known in the art.

M. A hydrophobic moment peptide. For example peptide derivatives of Tachyplesin which inhibit fungal plant pathogens or synthetic antimicrobial peptides that confer disease resistance.

N. A membrane permease a channel former or a channel blocker. For example heterologous expression of a cecropin 13 lytic peptide analog to render transgenic tobacco plants resistant to is known in the art.

O. A viral invasive protein or a complex toxin derived therefrom. For example the accumulation of viral coat proteins in transformed plant cells imparts resistance to viral infection and or disease development affected by the virus from which the coat protein gene is derived as well as by related viruses. Coat protein mediated resistance has been conferred upon transformed plants against alfalfa mosaic virus cucumber mosaic virus tobacco streak virus potato virus X potato virus Y tobacco etch virus tobacco rattle virus and tobacco mosaic virus.

P. An insect specific antibody or an immunotoxin derived therefrom. Thus an antibody targeted to a critical metabolic function in the insect gut would inactivate an affected enzyme killing the insect. For example enzymatic inactivation in transgenic tobacco via production of single chain antibody fragments is known in the art.

Q. A virus specific antibody. For example it is known in the art that transgenic plants expressing recombinant antibody genes are protected from virus attack.

R. A developmental arrestive protein produced in nature by a pathogen or a parasite. Thus fungal endo 1 4 D polygalacturonases facilitate fungal colonization and plant nutrient release by solubilizing plant cell wall homo 1 4 D galacturonase. The cloning and characterization of a gene that encodes a bean endopolygalacturonase inhibiting protein is known in the art.

S. A developmental arrestive protein produced in nature by a plant. For example it has been shown that transgenic plants expressing the barley ribosome inactivating gene have an increased resistance to fungal disease.

T. Genes expressing proteins with antifungal action. head blight along with deoxynivalenol both produced by the pathogen Schwabe have caused devastating losses in wheat production. Genes expressing proteins with antifungal action can be used as transgenes to prevent head blight. Various classes of proteins have been identified. Examples include endochitinases exochitinases glucanases thionins thaumatin like proteins osmotins ribosome inactivating proteins flavonoids and lactoferricin. During infection with deoxynivalenol is produced. There is evidence that production of deoxynivalenol increases the virulence of the disease. Genes with properties for detoxification of deoxynivalenol have been engineered for use in wheat. A synthetic peptide that competes with deoxynivalenol has been identified. Changing the ribosomes of the host so that they have reduced affinity for deoxynivalenol has also been used to reduce the virulence of . Genes used to help reduce head blight include but are not limited to Tri101 PDR5 yeast tlp 1 oat tlp 2 oat leaf tlp 1 wheat tlp rice tlp 4 oat endochitinase exochitinase glucanase permatin oat seed hordothionin barley alpha thionin wheat acid glucanase alfalfa chitinase barley and rice class beta II 1 3 glucanase barley PR5 tlp zeamatin maize type 1 RIP barley NPR1 lactoferrin mammal oxalylCoA decarboxylase bacterium IAP baculovirus ced 9 and glucanase rice and barley .

U. A gene for example the H9 H10 and H21 genes conferring resistance to a pest such as Hessian fly stem soft fly cereal leaf beetle and or green bug.

V. A gene conferring resistance to diseases such as wheat rusts powdery mildew diseases smuts bunts diseases bacterial diseases and viral diseases.

W. Genes involved in the Systemic Acquired Resistance SAR response and or the pathogenesis related genes.

Y. Detoxification genes such as for fumonisin beauvericin moniliformin and zearalenone and their structurally related derivatives.

A. An herbicide that inhibits the growing point or meristem such as an imidazolinone or a sulfonylurea. Exemplary genes in this category code for mutant ALS and AHAS enzyme.

B. Glyphosate resistance conferred by mutant 5 enolpyruvylshikimate 3 phosphate synthase EPSPS and aroA genes and other phosphono compounds such as glufosinate phosphinothricin acetyl transferase PAT and PAT bar genes and pyridinoxy or phenoxy propionic acids and cyclohexanediones ACCase inhibitor encoding genes . For example the nucleotide sequence of a form of EPSP which can confer glyphosate resistance is known in the art. A DNA molecule encoding a mutant aroA gene can be obtained under ATCC accession number 39256 and the nucleotide sequence of the mutant gene is known. Nucleotide sequences of glutamine synthetase genes that confer tolerance or resistance to herbicides such as L phosphinothricin are also known in the art. The nucleotide sequence of a PAT gene is known in the art as is the production of transgenic plants that express chimeric bar genes coding for PAT activity. Exemplary genes conferring resistance to phenoxy propionic acids and cyclohexanediones such as sethoxydim and haloxyfop are the Accl S1 Accl S2 and Accl S3 genes.

C. An herbicide that inhibits photosynthesis such as a triazine psbA and gs genes or a benzonitrile nitrilase gene . Nucleotide sequences for nitrilase genes are disclosed and DNA molecules containing these genes are available under ATCC Accession Nos. 53435 67441 and 67442. Cloning and expression of DNA coding for a glutathione S transferase is described in the art.

D. Acetohydroxy acid synthase. This enzyme has been found to make plants that express this enzyme tolerant or resistant to multiple types of herbicides and has been introduced into a variety of plants. Other genes that confer tolerance or resistance to herbicides include a gene encoding a chimeric protein of rat cytochrome P4507A1 and yeast NADPH cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase genes for glutathione reductase and superoxide dismutase and genes for various phosphotransferases.

E. Protoporphyrinogen oxidase protox . Protox is necessary for the production of chlorophyll which is necessary for survival in all plants. The protox enzyme serves as the target for a variety of herbicidal compounds. These herbicides also inhibit growth of different species of plants present causing their total destruction. The development of plants containing altered protox activity that are tolerant or resistant to these herbicides is described in the art.

A. Modified fatty acid metabolism for example by transforming a plant with an antisense gene of stearyl ACP desaturase to increase stearic acid content of the plant.

B. Decreased phytate content. This can be accomplished by 1 Introduction of a phytase encoding gene that enhances breakdown of phytate adding more free phosphate to the transformed plant or 2 Up regulation of a gene that reduces phytate content. For example the nucleotide sequence of an phytase gene has been described in the art.

C. Modified carbohydrate composition effected for example by transforming plants with a gene coding for an enzyme that alters the branching pattern of starch or a gene altering thioredoxin such as NTR and or TRX and or a gamma zein knockout or mutant such as cs27 TUSC27 or en27. For example the nucleotide sequences of fructosyltransferase gene levansucrase gene and tomato invertase genes are known in the art. Transgenic plants can be produced that express alpha amylase that site direct mutagenesis of barley alpha amylase gene or confer maize endosperm starch branching enzyme II or improved digestibility and or starch extraction through modification of UDP D xylose 4 epimerase. Methods of producing high oil seed by modification of starch levels AGP are also known. The fatty acid modification genes mentioned above may also be used to affect starch content and or composition through the interrelationship of the starch and oil pathways.

D. Elevated oleic acid via FAD 2 gene modification and or decreased linolenic acid via FAD 3 gene modification.

E. Altering conjugated linolenic or linoleic acid content or LEC1 AGP Dekl Superall milps various Ipa genes such as Ipal Ipa3 hpt or hggt.

F. Altered antioxidant content or composition such as alteration of tocopherol or tocotrienols. For example manipulation of antioxidant levels through alteration of a phyt1 prenyl transferase ppt is known as is manipulation of antioxidant levels through alteration of a homogentisate geranyl geranyl transferase hggt .

G. The content of high molecular weight gluten subunits HMS GS . Genomic clones have been isolated for different subunits. For example genomic clones have transformed wheat with genes that encode a modified HMW GS.

H. Increased protein metabolism zinc and iron content for example by regulating the NAC gene increasing protein metabolism by regulating the Gpc B1 gene or regulating glutenin and gliadin genes.

I. Altered essential seed amino acids. Methods of increasing accumulation of essential amino acids in seeds binary methods of increasing accumulation of essential amino acids in seeds alteration of amino acid compositions in seeds methods for altering amino acid content of proteins alteration of amino acid compositions in seeds and proteins with enhanced levels of essential amino acids all are known in the art. Other examples may include high methionine high threonine plant amino acid biosynthetic enzymes increased lysine and threonine plant tryptophan synthase beta subunit methionine metabolic enzymes high sulfur increased methionine plant amino acid biosynthetic enzymes engineered seed protein having higher percentage of essential amino acids increased lysine increasing sulfur amino acid content synthetic storage proteins with defined structure containing programmable levels of essential amino acids for improvement of the nutritional value of plants increased threonine increased lysine Ces A cellulose synthase hemicellulose UDPGdH and RGP.

There are several methods of conferring genetic male sterility available such as multiple mutant genes at separate locations within the genome that confer male sterility. In addition to these methods a system of nuclear male sterility that includes identifying a gene which is critical to male fertility silencing this native gene which is critical to male fertility removing the native promoter from the essential male fertility gene and replacing it with an inducible promoter inserting this genetically engineered gene back into the plant and thus creating a plant that is male sterile because the inducible promoter is not on resulting in the male fertility gene not being transcribed is known. Fertility is restored by inducing or turning on the promoter which in turn allows the gene that confers male fertility to be transcribed.

A. Introduction of a deacetylase gene under the control of a tapetum specific promoter and with the application of the chemical N Ac PPT.

This includes the introduction of FRT sites that may be used in the FLP FRT system and or Lox sites that may be used in the Cre Loxp system. Other systems that may be used include the Gin recombinase of phage Mu the Pin recombinase of and the R RS system of the pSR1 plasmid.

A. Genes that affect abiotic stress resistance including but not limited to flowering seed development enhancement of nitrogen utilization efficiency altered nitrogen responsiveness drought resistance or tolerance cold resistance or tolerance and salt resistance or tolerance and increased yield under stress. For example water use efficiency can be altered through alteration of malate. In addition various genes including CBF genes and transcription factors can be effective in mitigating the negative effects of freezing high salinity and drought on plants as well as conferring other positive effects on plant phenotype. Abscisic acid can be altered in plants resulting in improved plant phenotype such as increased yield and or increased tolerance to abiotic stress. Cytokinin expression can be modified resulting in plants with increased stress tolerance such as drought tolerance and or increased yield. Nitrogen utilization can be enhanced and or nitrogen responsiveness can be altered. Ethylene can be altered. Plant transcription factors or transcriptional regulators of abiotic stress can also be altered.

B. Improved tolerance to water stress from drought or high salt water condition. The HVA1 protein belongs to the group 3 LEA proteins that include other members such as wheat pMA2005 cotton D 7 carrot Dc3 and rape pLEA76. These proteins are characterized by 11 mer tandem repeats of amino acid domains which may form a probable amphophilic alpha helical structure that presents a hydrophilic surface with a hydrophobic stripe. The barley HVA1 gene and the wheat pMA2005 gene are highly similar at both the nucleotide level and predicted amino acid level. These two monocot genes are closely related to the cotton D 7 gene and carrot Dc3 gene with which they share a similar structural gene organization. There is therefore a correlation between LEA gene expression or LEA protein accumulation with stress tolerance in a number of plants. For example in severely dehydrated wheat seedlings the accumulation of high levels of group 3 LEA proteins was correlated with tissue dehydration tolerance. Studies on several Indica varieties of rice showed that the levels of group 2 LEA proteins also known as dehydrins and group 3 LEA proteins in roots were significantly higher in salt tolerant varieties compared with sensitive varieties. The barley HVA1 gene was transformed into wheat. Transformed wheat plants showed increased tolerance to water stress.

C. Improved water stress tolerance through increased mannitol levels via the bacterial mannitol 1 phosphate dehydrogenase gene. It is known to produce a plant with a genetic basis for coping with water deficit by introduction of the bacterial mannitol 1 phosphate dehydrogenase gene mt1D into tobacco cells via mediated transformation. Root and leaf tissues from transgenic plants regenerated from these transformed tobacco cells contained up to 100 mM mannitol. Control plants contained no detectable mannitol. To determine whether the transgenic tobacco plants exhibited increased tolerance to water deficit the growth of transgenic plants was compared to that of untransformed control plants in the presence of 250 mM NaCl. After 30 days of exposure to 250 mM NaCl transgenic plants had decreased weight loss and increased height relative to their untransformed counterparts. The authors concluded that the presence of mannitol in these transformed tobacco plants contributed to water deficit tolerance at the cellular level.

Other genes and transcription factors that affect plant growth and agronomic traits such as yield flowering plant growth and or plant structure can be introduced or introgressed into plants.

Numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed including biological and physical plant transformation protocols. In addition expression vectors and in vitro culture methods for plant cell or tissue transformation and regeneration of plants are available.

A. Mediated Transformation. One method for introducing an expression vector into plants is based on the natural transformation system of and are plant pathogenic soil bacteria that genetically transform plant cells. The Ti and Ri plasmids of and respectively carry genes responsible for genetic transformation of the plant. Descriptions of vector systems and methods for mediated gene transfer are well known in the art.

B. Direct Gene Transfer. Several methods of plant transformation collectively referred to as direct gene transfer have been developed as an alternative to mediated transformation. A generally applicable method of plant transformation is microprojectile mediated transformation wherein DNA is carried on the surface of microprojectiles measuring 1 to 4 pm. The expression vector is introduced into plant tissues with a biolistic device that accelerates the microprojectiles to speeds of 300 to 600 m s which is sufficient to penetrate plant cell walls and membranes.

Another method for physical delivery of DNA to plants is sonication of target cells. Alternatively liposome and spheroplast fusion have been used to introduce expression vectors into plants. Direct uptake of DNA into protoplasts using CaClprecipitation polyvinyl alcohol or polyL ornithine has also been reported. Electroporation of protoplasts and whole cells and tissues has also been described. Following transformation of wheat target tissues expression of the above described selectable marker genes allows for preferential selection of transformed cells tissues and or plants using regeneration and selection methods that are well known in the art.

The foregoing methods for transformation would typically be used for producing a transgenic variety. The transgenic variety could then be crossed with another non transformed or transformed variety in order to produce a new transgenic variety. Alternatively a genetic trait which has been engineered into a particular wheat cultivar using the foregoing transformation techniques could be moved into another cultivar using traditional backcrossing techniques that are well known in the plant breeding arts. For example a backcrossing approach could be used to move an engineered trait from a public non elite variety into an elite variety or from a variety containing a foreign gene in its genome into a variety or varieties which do not contain that gene. As used herein crossing can refer to a simple X by Y cross or the process of backcrossing depending on the context.

In addition to phenotypic observations a plant can also be identified by its genotype. The genotype of a plant can be characterized through a genetic marker profile which can identify plants of the same variety or a related variety or be used to determine or validate a pedigree. Genetic marker profiles can be obtained by techniques such as Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms RFLPs Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNAs RAPDs Arbitrarily Primed Polymerase Chain Reaction AP PCR DNA Amplification Fingerprinting DAF Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions SCARs Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms AFLPs Simple Sequence Repeats SSRs which are also referred to as microsatellites and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms SNPs .

Particular markers used for these purposes are not limited to any particular set of markers but are envisioned to include any type of marker and marker profile that provides a means of distinguishing varieties. One method of comparison is to use only homozygous loci for HV9W08 1836.

In addition to being used for identification of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 and plant parts and plant cells of cultivar HV9W08 1836 the genetic profile may be used to identify a wheat plant produced through the use of HV9W08 1836 or to verify a pedigree for progeny plants produced through the use of HV9W08 1836. The genetic marker profile is also useful in breeding and developing backcross conversions.

In some embodiments the present invention comprises a wheat plant characterized by molecular and physiological data obtained from the representative sample of HV9W08 1836 deposited with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . Provided in further embodiments of the invention is a wheat plant formed by the combination of the HV9W08 1836 plant or plant cell with another wheat plant or cell and comprising the homozygous alleles of the variety.

Means of performing genetic marker profiles using SSR polymorphisms are well known in the art. SSRs are genetic markers based on polymorphisms in repeated nucleotide sequences such as microsatellites. A marker system based on SSRs can be highly informative in linkage analysis relative to other marker systems in that multiple alleles may be present. Another advantage of this type of marker is that through use of flanking primers detection of SSRs can be achieved for example by the polymerase chain reaction PCR thereby eliminating the need for labor intensive Southern hybridization. PCR detection uses two oligonucleotide primers flanking the polymorphic segment of repetitive DNA. Repeated cycles of heat denaturation of the DNA followed by annealing of the primers to their complementary sequences at low temperatures and extension of the annealed primers with DNA polymerase comprise the major part of the methodology.

Following amplification markers can be scored by electrophoresis of the amplification products. Scoring of marker genotype is based on the size of the amplified fragment which may be measured by the number of base pairs of the fragment. While variation in the primer used or in laboratory procedures can affect the reported fragment size relative values should remain constant regardless of the specific primer or laboratory used. When comparing varieties all SSR profiles may be performed in the same lab.

The SSR profile of wheat plant HV9W08 1836 can be used to identify plants comprising HV9W08 1836 as a parent since such plants will comprise the same homozygous alleles as HV9W08 1836. Because the wheat variety is essentially homozygous at all relevant loci most loci should have only one type of allele present. In contrast a genetic marker profile of an F1 progeny should be the sum of those parents e.g. if one parent was homozygous for allele x at a particular locus and the other parent homozygous for allele y at that locus then the F1 progeny will be xy heterozygous at that locus. Subsequent generations of progeny produced by selection and breeding are expected to be of genotype x homozygous y homozygous or xy heterozygous for that locus position. When the F1 plant is selfed or sibbed for successive filial generations the locus should be either x or y for that position.

In addition plants and plant parts substantially benefiting from the use of HV9W08 1836 in their development such as HV9W08 1836 comprising a backcross conversion transgene or genetic sterility factor may be identified by having a molecular marker profile with a high percent identity to HV9W08 1836. In an embodiment such a percent identity might be 95 96 97 98 99 99.5 or 99.9 identical to HV9W08 1836.

The SSR profile of HV9W08 1836 also can be used to identify essentially derived varieties and other progeny varieties developed from the use of HV9W08 1836 as well as cells and other plant parts thereof. Progeny plants and plant parts produced using HV9W08 1836 may be identified by having a molecular marker profile of at least 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or 99.5 genetic contribution fromHV9W08 1836 as measured by either percent identity or percent similarity. Such progeny may be further characterized as being within a pedigree distance of HV9W08 1836 such as within 1 2 3 4 or 5 or fewer cross pollinations to a wheat plant other than HV9W08 1836 or a plant that has HV9W08 1836 as a progenitor. Unique molecular profiles may be identified with other molecular tools such as SNPs and RFLPs.

While determining the SSR genetic marker profile of a plant as described above several unique SSR profiles may also be identified that did not appear in either parent plant. Such unique SSR profiles may arise during the breeding process from recombination or mutation. A combination of several unique alleles provides a means of identifying a plant variety an F1 progeny produced from such variety and further progeny produced from such variety.

When the term wheat plant is used in the context of the present invention this also includes any gene conversions of that variety. Backcrossing methods can be used with the present invention to improve or introduce a characteristic into the variety. For example a variety may be backcrossed 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or more times to the recurrent parent. The parental wheat plant that contributes the gene for the desired characteristic is termed the nonrecurrent or donor parent. This terminology refers to the fact that the nonrecurrent parent is used one time in the backcross protocol and therefore does not recur. The parental wheat plant to which the gene or genes from the nonrecurrent parent are transferred is known as the recurrent parent as it is used for several rounds in the backcrossing protocol. In a typical backcross protocol the original variety of interest recurrent parent is crossed to a second variety nonrecurrent parent that carries the single gene of interest to be transferred. The resulting progeny from this cross are then crossed again to the recurrent parent and the process is repeated until a wheat plant is obtained wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent are recovered in the converted plant in addition to the single transferred gene from the nonrecurrent parent.

The selection of a suitable recurrent parent contributes to a successful backcrossing procedure. The goal of a backcross protocol is to alter or substitute a single trait or characteristic in the original variety. To accomplish this a single gene of the recurrent variety is modified or substituted with the desired gene from the nonrecurrent parent while retaining essentially all of the rest of the desired genetic and therefore the desired physiological and morphological constitution of the original variety. The choice of the particular nonrecurrent parent will depend on the purpose of the backcross. One of the major purposes is to add commercially desirable agronomically important traits to the plant. The exact backcrossing protocol will depend on the characteristic or trait being altered. Although backcrossing methods are simplified when the characteristic being transferred is a dominant allele a recessive allele may also be transferred. In this instance it may be necessary to introduce a test of the progeny to determine if the desired characteristic has been successfully transferred.

Many single gene traits have been identified that are not regularly selected for in the development of a new variety but that can be improved by backcrossing techniques. Single gene traits may or may not be transgenic. Examples of these traits include but are not limited to male sterility waxy starch herbicide tolerance or resistance resistance for bacterial fungal or viral disease insect resistance or tolerance male fertility enhanced nutritional quality industrial usage yield stability and yield enhancement. These genes are generally inherited through the nucleus.

Cultivar HV9W08 1836 represents a new base genetic variety into which a new locus or trait may be introgressed. Direct transformation and backcrossing represent two important methods that can be used to accomplish such an introgression. The term backcross conversion and single locus conversion are used interchangeably to designate the product of a backcrossing program.

A backcross conversion of HV9W08 1836 occurs when DNA sequences are introduced through backcrossing with HV9W08 1836 utilized as the recurrent parent. Both naturally occurring and transgenic DNA sequences may be introduced through backcrossing techniques. A backcross conversion may produce a plant with a trait or locus conversion in at least two or more backcrosses including at least 2 crosses at least 3 crosses at least 4 crosses at least 5 crosses or additional crosses. Molecular marker assisted breeding or selection may be utilized to reduce the number of backcrosses necessary to achieve the backcross conversion. For example a backcross conversion can be made in as few as two backcrosses.

The complexity of the backcross conversion method depends on the type of trait being transferred single genes or closely linked genes versus unlinked genes the level of expression of the trait the type of inheritance cytoplasmic or nuclear and the types of parents included in the cross. It is understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that for single gene traits that are relatively easy to classify the backcross method is effective and relatively easy to manage. Desired traits that may be transferred through backcross conversion include but are not limited to sterility nuclear and cytoplasmic fertility restoration nutritional enhancements drought tolerance nitrogen utilization altered fatty acid profile low phytate industrial enhancements disease resistance or tolerance bacterial fungal or viral insect resistance or tolerance and herbicide tolerance or resistance. In addition an introgression site itself such as an FRT site Lox site or other site specific integration site may be inserted by backcrossing and utilized for direct insertion of one or more genes of interest into a specific plant variety. In some embodiments of the invention the number of loci that may be backcrossed into HV9W08 1836 is at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more. A single locus may contain several transgenes such as a transgene for disease resistance that in the same expression vector also contains a transgene for herbicide tolerance or resistance. The gene for herbicide tolerance or resistance may be used as a selectable marker and or as a phenotypic trait. A single locus conversion of site specific integration system allows for the integration of multiple genes at the converted loci.

The backcross conversion may result from either the transfer of a dominant allele or a recessive allele. Selection of progeny containing the trait of interest is accomplished by direct selection for a trait associated with a dominant allele. Transgenes transferred via backcrossing typically function as a dominant single gene trait and are relatively easy to classify. Selection of progeny for a trait that is transferred via a recessive allele requires growing and selling the first backcross generation to determine which plants carry the recessive alleles. Recessive traits may require additional progeny testing in successive backcross generations to determine the presence of the locus of interest. The last backcross generation is usually selfed to give pure breeding progeny for the gene s being transferred although a backcross conversion with a stably introgressed trait may also be maintained by further backcrossing to the recurrent parent with selection for the converted trait.

Along with selection for the trait of interest progeny are selected for the phenotype of the recurrent parent. The backcross is a form of inbreeding and the features of the recurrent parent are automatically recovered after successive backcrosses. Some sources suggest from one to four or more backcrosses but as noted above the number of backcrosses necessary can be reduced with the use of molecular markers. Other factors such as a genetically similar donor parent may also reduce the number of backcrosses necessary. Backcrossing is easiest for simply inherited dominant and easily recognized traits.

One process for adding or modifying a trait or locus in wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 comprises crossing HV9W08 1836 plants grown from HV9W08 1836 seed with plants of another wheat variety that comprise the desired trait or locus selecting F1 progeny plants that comprise the desired trait or locus to produce selected F1 progeny plants crossing the selected progeny plants with the HV9W08 1836 plants to produce backcross progeny plants selecting for backcross progeny plants that have the desired trait or locus and the morphological characteristics of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 to produce selected backcross progeny plants and backcrossing to HV9W08 1836 three or more times in succession to produce selected fourth or higher backcross progeny plants that comprise said trait or locus. The modified HV9W08 1836 may be further characterized as having essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 listed in Table 1 as determined at the 5 significance level when grown in the same environmental conditions and or may be characterized by percent similarity or identity to HV9W08 1836 as determined by SSR markers. The above method may be utilized with fewer backcrosses in appropriate situations such as when the donor parent is highly related or markers are used in the selection step. Desired nucleic acids that may be used include those nucleic acids known in the art some of which are listed herein that will affect traits through nucleic acid expression or inhibition. Desired loci include the introgression of FRT Lox and other sites for site specific integration which may also affect a desired trait if a functional nucleic acid is inserted at the integration site.

In addition the above process and other similar processes described herein may be used to produce first generation progeny wheat seed by adding a step at the end of the process that comprises crossing HV9W08 1836 with the introgressed trait or locus with a different wheat plant and harvesting the resultant first generation progeny wheat seed.

A further embodiment of the invention is a back cross conversion of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. A backcross conversion occurs when DNA sequences are introduced through traditional non transformation breeding techniques such as backcrossing. DNA sequences whether naturally occurring or transgenes may be introduced using these traditional breeding techniques. Desired traits transferred through this process include but are not limited to nutritional enhancements industrial enhancements disease resistance or tolerance insect resistance or tolerance herbicide tolerance or resistance agronomic enhancements grain quality enhancement waxy starch breeding enhancements seed production enhancements and male sterility. Descriptions of some of the cytoplasmic male sterility genes nuclear male sterility genes chemical hybridizing agents male fertility restoration genes and methods of using the aforementioned are known. Examples of genes for other traits include Leaf rust resistance genes Lr series such as Lr1 Lr10 Lr21 Lr22 Lr22a Lr32 Lr37 Lr41 Lr42 and Lr43 head blight resistance genes QFhs.ndsu 3B and QFhs.ndsu 2A powdery mildew resistance genes Pm21 common bunt resistance genes Bt 10 and wheat streak mosaic virus resistance gene Wsml Russian wheat aphid resistance genes Dn series such as Dn1 Dn2 Dn4 and Dn5 Black stem rust resistance genes Sr38 Yellow rust resistance genes Yr series such as Yr 1 YrSD Yrsu Yr17 Yr15 and YrH52 aluminum tolerance genes Alt BH dwarf genes Rht vernalization genes Vrn Hessian fly resistance genes H9 H10 H21 and H29 grain color genes R r glyphosate resistance genes EPSPS glufosinate genes bar pat and water stress tolerance genes Hva 1 and mt1D . The trait of interest is transferred from the donor parent to the recurrent parent which in this case is the wheat plant disclosed herein HV9W08 1836. Single gene traits may result from either the transfer of a dominant allele or a recessive allele. Selection of progeny containing the trait of interest is done by direct selection for a trait associated with a dominant allele. Selection of progeny for a trait that is transferred via a recessive allele requires growing and selfing the first backcross to determine which plants carry the recessive alleles. Recessive traits may require additional progeny testing in successive backcross generations to determine the presence of the gene of interest.

Wheat varieties such as HV9W08 1836 are typically developed for use in seed and grain production. However wheat varieties such as HV9W08 1836 also provide a source of breeding material that may be used to develop new wheat varieties. Plant breeding techniques known in the art and used in a wheat plant breeding program include but are not limited to recurrent selection mass selection bulk selection mass selection backcros sing pedigree breeding open pollination breeding restriction fragment length polymorphism enhanced selection genetic marker enhanced selection making double haploids and transformation. Often combinations of these techniques are used. The development of wheat varieties in a plant breeding program requires in general the development and evaluation of homozygous varieties. There are many analytical methods available to evaluate a new variety. The oldest and most traditional method of analysis is the observation of phenotypic traits but genotypic analysis may also be used.

In an embodiment this invention is directed to methods for producing a wheat plant by crossing a first parent wheat plant with a second parent wheat plant wherein either the first or second parent wheat plant is cultivar HV9W08 1836. The other parent may be any other wheat plant such as a wheat plant that is part of a synthetic or natural population. Any such methods using wheat variety HV9W08 1836 are part of this invention selfing sibbing backcrosses mass selection pedigree breeding bulk selection hybrid production and crosses to populations. These methods are well known in the art and some of the more commonly used breeding methods are described below.

The following describes breeding methods that may be used with wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 in the development of further wheat plants. One such embodiment is a method for developing a cultivar HV9W08 1836 progeny wheat plant in a wheat plant breeding program comprising obtaining the wheat plant or a part thereof of cultivar HV9W08 1836 utilizing said plant or plant part as a source of breeding material and selecting a wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 progeny plant with molecular markers in common with cultivar HV9W08 1836 and or with morphological and or physiological characteristics selected from the characteristics listed in the Tables herein. Breeding steps that may be used in the wheat plant breeding program include pedigree breeding backcrossing mutation breeding and recurrent selection. In conjunction with these steps techniques such as RFLP enhanced selection genetic marker enhanced selection e.g. SSR markers and the making of double haploids may be utilized.

Another method involves producing a population of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 progeny wheat plants comprising crossing cultivar HV9W08 1836 with another wheat plant thereby producing a population of wheat plants which on average derive 50 of their alleles from wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. A plant of this population may be selected and repeatedly selfed or sibbed with a wheat cultivar resulting from these successive filial generations. One embodiment of this invention is the wheat cultivar produced by this method and that has obtained at least 50 of its alleles from wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836.

One of ordinary skill in the art of plant breeding would know how to evaluate the traits of two plant varieties to determine if there is no significant difference between the two traits expressed by those varieties. Thus the invention includes wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 progeny wheat plants comprising a combination of at least two cultivar HV9W08 1836 traits selected from the group consisting of those listed in the Tables herein so that said progeny wheat plant is not significantly different for said traits than wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. Using techniques described herein molecular markers may be used to identify said progeny plant as a wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 progeny plant. Mean trait values may be used to determine whether trait differences are significant and the traits may be measured on plants grown under the same environmental conditions. Once such a variety is developed its value is substantial as it is important to advance the germplasm base as a whole in order to maintain or improve traits such as yield disease resistance or tolerance pest resistance or tolerance and plant performance in extreme environmental conditions.

Progeny of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 may also be characterized through their filial relationship with wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 as for example being within a certain number of breeding crosses of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. A breeding cross is a cross made to introduce new genetics into the progeny and is distinguished from a cross such as a self or a sib cross made to select among existing genetic alleles. The lower the number of breeding crosses in the pedigree the closer the relationship between wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 and its progeny. For example progeny produced by the methods described herein may be within 1 2 3 4 or 5 breeding crosses of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836.

Pedigree breeding starts with the crossing of two genotypes such as HV9W08 1836 and another wheat variety having one or more desirable characteristics that is lacking or which complements HV9W08 1836. If the two original parents do not provide all the desired characteristics other sources can be included in the breeding population. In the pedigree method superior plants are selfed and selected in successive filial generations. In the succeeding filial generations the heterozygous condition gives way to homogeneous varieties as a result of self pollination and selection. Typically in the pedigree method of breeding five or more successive filial generations of selfing and selection is practiced F1 to F2 F2 to F3 F3 to F4 F4 to F5 etc. After a sufficient amount of inbreeding successive filial generations will serve to increase seed of the developed variety. In an embodiment the developed variety comprises homozygous alleles at about 95 or more of its loci.

In addition to being used to create a backcross conversion backcrossing can also be used in combination with pedigree breeding. As discussed previously backcrossing can be used to transfer one or more specifically desirable traits from one variety the donor parent to a developed variety called the recurrent parent which has overall good agronomic characteristics yet lacks that desirable trait or traits. However the same procedure can be used to move the progeny toward the genotype of the recurrent parent but at the same time retain many components of the non recurrent parent by stopping the backcrossing at an early stage and proceeding with selling and selection. For example a wheat variety may be crossed with another variety to produce a first generation progeny plant. The first generation progeny plant may then be backcrossed to one of its parent varieties to create a BC1 or BC2. Progeny are selfed and selected so that the newly developed variety has many of the attributes of the recurrent parent and yet several of the desired attributes of the non recurrent parent. This approach leverages the value and strengths of the recurrent parent for use in new wheat varieties.

Therefore an embodiment of this invention is a method of making a backcross conversion of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 comprising the steps of crossing a plant of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 with a donor plant comprising a desired trait selecting an F1 progeny plant comprising the desired trait and backcrossing the selected F1 progeny plant to a plant of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. This method may further comprise the step of obtaining a molecular marker profile of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 and using the molecular marker profile to select for a progeny plant with the desired trait and the molecular marker profile of HV9W08 1836. In one embodiment the desired trait is a mutant gene or transgene present in the donor parent.

Recurrent selection is a method used in a plant breeding program to improve a population of plants. HV9W08 1836 is suitable for use in a recurrent selection program. The method entails individual plants cross pollinating with each other to form progeny. The progeny are grown and the superior progeny selected by any number of selection methods which include individual plant half sib progeny full sib progeny and selfed progeny. The selected progeny are cross pollinated with each other to form progeny for another population. This population is planted and again superior plants are selected to cross pollinate with each other. Recurrent selection is a cyclical process and therefore can be repeated as many times as desired. The objective of recurrent selection is to improve the traits of a population. The improved population can then be used as a source of breeding material to obtain new varieties for commercial or breeding use including the production of a synthetic cultivar. A synthetic cultivar is the resultant progeny formed by the intercros sing of several selected varieties.

Mass selection is a useful technique when used in conjunction with molecular marker enhanced selection. In mass selection seeds from individuals are selected based on phenotype or genotype. These selected seeds are then bulked and used to grow the next generation. Bulk selection requires growing a population of plants in a bulk plot allowing the plants to self pollinate harvesting the seed in bulk and then using a sample of the seed harvested in bulk to plant the next generation. Also instead of self pollination directed pollination could be used as part of the breeding program.

Mutation breeding is another method of introducing new traits into wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. Mutations that occur spontaneously or are artificially induced can be useful sources of variability for a plant breeder. The goal of artificial mutagenesis is to increase the rate of mutation for a desired characteristic. Mutation rates can be increased by many different means including temperature long term seed storage tissue culture conditions radiation such as X rays Gamma rays e.g. cobalt 60 or cesium 137 neutrons product of nuclear fission by uranium 235 in an atomic reactor Beta radiation emitted from radioisotopes such as phosphorus 32 or carbon 14 or ultraviolet radiation optionally from 2500 to 2900 nm or chemical mutagens such as base analogues 5 bromo uracil related compounds 8 ethoxy caffeine antibiotics streptonigrin alkylating agents sulfur mustards nitrogen mustards epoxides ethylenamines sulfates sulfonates sulfones lactones azide hydroxylamine nitrous acid or acridines. Once a desired trait is observed through mutagenesis the trait may then be incorporated into existing germplasm by traditional breeding techniques. In addition mutations created in other wheat plants may be used to produce a backcross conversion of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 that comprises such mutation. Further embodiments of the invention are the treatment of HV9W08 1836 with a mutagen and the plant produced by mutagenesis of HV9W08 1836.

Molecular markers which include markers identified through the use of techniques such as Isozyme Electrophoresis Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms RFLPs Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNAs RAPDs Arbitrarily Primed Polymerase Chain Reaction AP PCR DNA Amplification Fingerprinting DAF Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions SCARs Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms AFLPs Simple Sequence Repeats SSRs and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms SNPs may be used in plant breeding methods utilizing wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. Isozyme Electrophoresis and RFLPs have been widely used to determine genetic composition.

SSR technology is currently the most efficient and practical marker technology more marker loci can be routinely used and more alleles per marker locus can be found using SSRs in comparison to RFLPs. Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms SNPs may also be used to identify the unique genetic composition of the invention and progeny varieties retaining that unique genetic composition. Various molecular marker techniques may be used in combination to enhance overall resolution. Wheat DNA molecular marker linkage maps have been rapidly constructed and widely implemented in genetic studies.

One use of molecular markers is QTL mapping. QTL mapping is the use of markers which are known to be closely linked to alleles that have measurable effects on a quantitative trait. Selection in the breeding process is based upon the accumulation of markers linked to the positive effecting alleles and or the elimination of the markers linked to the negative effecting alleles from the plant s genome.

Molecular markers can also be used during the breeding process for the selection of qualitative traits. For example markers closely linked to alleles or markers containing sequences within the actual alleles of interest can be used to select plants that contain the alleles of interest during a backcrossing breeding program. The markers can also be used to select for the genome of the recurrent parent and against the genome of the donor parent. Using this procedure can minimize the amount of genome from the donor parent that remains in the selected plants. It can also be used to reduce the number of crosses back to the recurrent parent needed in a backcrossing program. The use of molecular markers in the selection process is often called genetic marker enhanced selection. Molecular markers may also be used to identify and exclude certain sources of germplasm as parental varieties or ancestors of a plant by providing a means of tracking genetic profiles through crosses.

The production of double haploids can also be used for the development of plants with a homozygous phenotype in the breeding program. For example a wheat plant for which wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is a parent can be used to produce double haploid plants. Double haploids are produced by the doubling of a set of chromosomes 1N from a heterozygous plant to produce a completely homozygous individual. This can be advantageous because the process omits the generations of selfing needed to obtain a homozygous plant from a heterozygous source.

Haploid induction systems have been developed for various plants to produce haploid tissues plants and seeds. The haploid induction system can produce haploid plants from any genotype by crossing a selected line as female with an inducer line. Such inducer lines for maize include Stock 6. Methods for obtaining haploid plants have also been disclosed in the art.

Thus an embodiment of this invention is a process for making a substantially homozygous HV9W08 1836 progeny plant by producing or obtaining a seed from the cross of HV9W08 1836 and another wheat plant and applying double haploid methods to the F1 seed or F1 plant or to any successive filial generation. Based on studies in maize and currently being conducted in wheat such methods would decrease the number of generations required to produce a variety with similar genetics or characteristics to HV9W08 1836.

In particular a process of making seed retaining the molecular marker profile of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is contemplated such process comprising obtaining or producing F1 seed for which wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is a parent inducing doubled haploids to create progeny without the occurrence of meiotic segregation obtaining the molecular marker profile of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 and selecting progeny that retain the molecular marker profile of HV9W08 1836. Descriptions of other breeding methods that are commonly used for different traits and crops are known.

Further reproduction of the variety can occur by tissue culture and regeneration. Tissue culture of various tissues of wheat and regeneration of plants therefrom is well known and widely published. Thus another aspect of this invention is to provide cells which upon growth and differentiation produce wheat plants having essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. Means for preparing and maintaining plant tissue culture are well known in the art. By way of example a tissue culture comprising organs has been used to produce regenerated plants.

In Table 2 yield quality and agronomic characteristics collected from 2010 to 2012 in the Central Plains of the United States for wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 are compared to two commercial check varieties. Column 1 shows the variety column 2 shows the yield as a percent of the average of the test mean column 3 shows the test weight of harvested grain in pounds per bushel column 4 shows the Julian flowering date when 50 of the variety flowers column 5 shows the plant height in centimeters column 6 shows the level of lodging on a scale of 1 to 9 and column 7 shows the SDS Sedimentation score in millimeters.

In the description and tables a number of terms are used. In order to provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and claims the following definitions are provided 

A When used in conjunction with the word comprising or other open language in the claims the words a and an denote one or more. 

About Refers to embodiments or values that include the standard deviation of the mean for a given item being measured.

Allele Any of one or more alternative forms of a gene locus all of which relate to one trait or characteristic. In a diploid cell or organism the two alleles of a given gene occupy corresponding loci on a pair of homologous chromosomes.

Aphids Aphid resistance is scored on a scale from 1 to 9 a score of 4 or less indicates resistance. Varieties scored as 1 to 5 appear normal and healthy with numbers of aphids increasing from none to up to 300 per plant. A score of 7 indicates that there are 301 to 800 aphids per plant and that the plants show slight signs of infestation. A score of 9 indicates severe infestation and stunted plants with severely curled and yellow leaves.

Awn Awn is intended to mean the elongated needle like appendages on the flower and seed bearing head at the top of the cereal grain plant e.g. wheat common wheat rye . Awns are attached to the lemmas. Lemmas enclose the stamen and the stigma as part of the florets. Florets are grouped in spikelets which in turn together comprise the head.

Backcrossing A process in which a breeder repeatedly crosses hybrid progeny for example a first generation hybrid F back to one of the parents of the hybrid progeny. Backcrossing can be used to introduce one or more single locus conversions from one genetic background into another.

Cell As used herein the term cell includes a plant cell whether isolated in tissue culture or incorporated in a plant or plant part.

Chromatography A technique wherein a mixture of dissolved substances are bound to a solid support followed by passing a column of fluid across the solid support and varying the composition of the fluid. The components of the mixture are separated by selective elution.

Disease Resistance As used herein the term disease resistance or disease resistant is defined as the ability of plants to restrict the activities of a specified disease such as a fungus virus or bacterium.

Disease Tolerance As used herein the term disease tolerance or disease tolerant is defined as the ability of plants to endure a specified disease such as a fungus virus or bacterium or an adverse environmental condition and still perform and produce in spite of this disorder.

Emasculate The removal of plant male sex organs or the inactivation of the organs with a cytoplasmic or nuclear genetic factor or a chemical agent conferring male sterility.

Emergence EMR The emergence score describes the ability of a seed to emerge from the soil after planting. Each genotype is given a 1 to 9 score based on its percent of emergence. A score of 1 indicates an excellent rate and percent of emergence an intermediate score of 5 indicates an average rating and a 9 score indicates a very poor rate and percent of emergence.

Essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics The characteristics of a plant are recovered that are otherwise present when compared in the same environment other than occasional variant traits that might arise during backcrossing or direct introduction of a transgene.

Gene Converted Conversion Gene conversion or a gene converted plant refers to plants that are developed by backcrossing genetic engineering or mutation wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and physiological characteristics of a variety are recovered in addition to the one or more traits transferred into the variety via the back crossing technique genetic engineering or mutation.

Gene Silencing Gene silencing refers to the interruption or suppression of the expression of a gene at the level of transcription or translation.

Glume Blotch Glume Blotch is a disease of wheat characterized by small irregular gray to brown spots or blotches on the glumes although infections may also occur at the nodes. The disease is caused by the fungus may also be referred to as . Resistance to this disease is scored on scales that reflect the observed extent of the disease on the leaves of the plant. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

Head As used herein the term head refers to a group of spikelets at the top of one plant stem. The term spike also refers to the head of a plant located at the top of one plant stem.

Herbicide Resistance As used herein the term herbicide resistance or herbicide resistant is defined as the ability of plants to survive and reproduce following exposure to a dose of herbicide that would normally be lethal to the plant.

Herbicide Tolerance As used herein the term herbicide tolerance or herbicide tolerant is defined as the ability of plants to survive and reproduce after herbicide treatment.

Insect Resistance As used herein the term disease resistance or disease resistant is defined as the ability of plants to restrict the activities of a specified insect or pest.

Insect Tolerance As used herein the term disease tolerance or disease tolerant is defined as the ability of plants to endure a specified insect or pest and still perform and produce in spite of this disorder.

Kernel Weight As used herein the term kernel weight refers to the weight of individual kernels also called seeds often reported as the weight of one thousand kernels or 1000 Kernel Weight. 

Leaf Rust Leaf Rust is a disease of wheat characterized by pustules that are circular or slightly elliptical that usually do not coalesce and contain masses of orange to orange brown spores. The disease is caused by the fungus f. sp. . Infection sites primarily are found on the upper surfaces of leaves and leaf sheaths and occasionally on the neck and awns. Resistance to this disease is scored on scales that reflect the observed extent of the disease on the leaves of the plant. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

Linkage A phenomenon wherein alleles on the same chromosome tend to segregate together more often than expected by chance if their transmission was independent.

Locus A locus is a position on a genomic sequence that is usually found by a point of reference for example the position of a DNA sequence that is a gene or part of a gene or intergenic region. A locus confers one or more traits such as for example male sterility herbicide tolerance or resistance insect resistance or tolerance disease resistance or tolerance modified fatty acid metabolism modified phytic acid metabolism modified carbohydrate metabolism or modified protein metabolism. The trait may be for example conferred by a naturally occurring gene introduced into the genome of the variety by backcrossing a natural or induced mutation or a transgene introduced through genetic transformation techniques. A locus may comprise one or more alleles integrated at a single chromosomal location.

Marker A readily detectable phenotype preferably inherited in codominant fashion both alleles at a locus in a diploid heterozygote are readily detectable with no environmental variance component i.e. heritability of 1.

Maturity As used herein the term maturity refers to the stage of plant growth at which the development of the kernels is complete.

Or As used herein is meant to mean and or and be interchangeable therewith unless explicitly indicated to refer to the alternative only.

Pedigree Distance Pedigree distance is the relationship among generations based on their ancestral links as evidenced in pedigrees. It may be measured by the distance of the pedigree from a given starting point in the ancestry.

Percent Identity Percent identity as used herein refers to the comparison of the homozygous alleles of two wheat varieties. Percent identity is determined by comparing a statistically significant number of the homozygous alleles of two developed varieties. For example a percent identity of 90 between wheat variety 1 and wheat variety 2 means that the two varieties have the same allele at 90 of their loci.

Percent Similarity Percent similarity as used herein refers to the comparison of the homozygous alleles of a wheat variety such as HV9W08 1836 with another plant and if the homozygous allele of HV9W08 1836 matches at least one of the alleles from the other plant then they are scored as similar. Percent similarity is determined by comparing a statistically significant number of loci and recording the number of loci with similar alleles as a percentage. A percent similarity of 90 between HV9W08 1836 and another plant means that HV9W08 1836 matches at least one of the alleles of the other plant at 90 of the loci.

Phenotype The detectable characteristics of a cell or organism which characteristics are the manifestation of gene expression.

Plant As used herein the term plant includes reference to an immature or mature whole plant including a plant from which seed grain or anthers have been removed. A seed or embryo that will produce the plant is also considered to be a plant.

Plant Height Hgt As used herein the term plant height is defined as the average height in inches or centimeters of a group of plants as measured from the ground level to the tip of the head excluding awns.

Plant Parts As used herein the term plant parts or reference to a wheat plant or a part thereof includes but is not limited to protoplasts callus leaves stems roots root tips anthers pistils seed grain pericarp embryo pollen ovules cotyledon hypocotyl spike floret awn lemma shoot tissue petiole cells and meristematic cells.

Powdery Mildew Powdery Mildew is a disease of wheat characterized by white to pale gray fuzzy or powdery colonies of mycelia and conidia on the upper surfaces of leaves and leaf sheaths especially on lower leaves and sometimes on the spikes. The disease is caused by the fungus f. sp. . Older fungal tissue is yellowish gray. This superficial fungal material can be rubbed off easily with the fingers. Host tissue beneath the fungal material becomes chlorotic or necrotic and with severe infections the leaves may die. Eventually black spherical fruiting structures may develop in the mycelia and can be seen without magnification. Resistance to this disease is scored on scales that reflect the observed extent of the disease on the leaves of the plant. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

Progeny As used herein progeny includes an F1 wheat plant produced from the cross of two wheat plants where at least one plant includes wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836. Progeny further includes but is not limited to subsequent F F F F F F F Fand Fgenerational crosses with the recurrent parental line.

Quantitative Trait Loci QTL Quantitative trait loci refer to genetic loci that control to some degree numerically representable traits that are usually continuously distributed.

Scab or Head Blight Scab or Head Blight a disease of wheat characterized by florets especially the outer glumes that become slightly darkened and oily in appearance. The disease is caused by the fungus which has numerous species. Spores are produced that can give the spike and shriveled infected kernels a bright pinkish color. Spores can produce a toxin deoxynivalenol which can be measured with a chemical test. Resistance to this disease can be measured in three ways the extent of the disease on the spikes of the plant the percent kernels which are visibly shriveled and the amount of deoxynivalenol in the kernels. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

SDS Sedimentation SDS sedimentation sodium dodecyl sedimentation test values are a measure of the end use mixing and handling properties of bread dough and their relation to bread making quality as a result of the dough s gluten quality. Higher SDS sedimentation levels reflect higher gluten quality.

Single Locus Converted Conversion Plant Plants which are developed by a plant breeding technique called backcrossing and or by genetic transformation to introduce a given locus that is transgenic in origin wherein essentially all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of a wheat cultivar are recovered in addition to the characteristics of the locus transferred into the variety via the backcrossing technique or by genetic transformation. It is understood that once introduced into any wheat plant genome a locus that is transgenic in origin transgene can be introduced by backcrossing as with any other locus.

Soil Born Mosaic Virus Soil born mosaic virus is a disease of wheat characterized by mild green to yellow mosaic yellow green mottling dashes and parallel streaks most clearly visible on the youngest leaf. Reddish streaking and necrosis at leaf tips sometimes occurs. Stunting can be moderate to severe depending on the variety. The disease is caused by a virus which is transmitted by a soilborne fungus like organism which makes swimming spores that infect the roots of wheat. Resistance to this disease is scored on scales that reflect the observed extent of the disease on the young plants. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and a higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

Substantially Equivalent A characteristic that when compared does not show a statistically significant difference e.g. p 0.05 from the mean.

Stem Rust Stem Rust is a disease of wheat characterized by pustules containing masses of spores that are dark reddish brown and may occur on both sides of the leaves on the stems and on the spikes. The disease is caused by the fungus f. sp. . Resistance to this disease is scored on scales that reflect the observed extent of the disease on the leaves of the plant. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and a higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

Stripe Rust Stripe rust is a disease of wheat common wheat durum wheat and barley characterized by elongated rows of yellow spores on the affected parts caused by a rust fungus . Resistance to this disease is scored on scales that reflect the observed extent of the disease on the leaves of the plant. Rating scales may differ but in general a low number indicates resistance and a higher number suggests different levels of susceptibility.

Test Weight TWT As used herein the term test weight is a measure of density that refers to the weight in pounds of the amount of kernels contained in a bushel unit of volume.

Tissue Culture A composition comprising isolated cells of the same or a different type or a collection of such cells organized into parts of a plant. Exemplary types of tissue cultures are protoplasts calli plant clumps and plant cells that can generate tissue culture that are intact in plants or parts of plants such as embryos pollen ovules pericarp flowers florets heads spikelets seeds leaves stems roots root tips anthers pistils awns stems and the like.

Transgene A genetic locus comprising a sequence which has been introduced into the genome of a wheat plant by transformation.

A deposit of the wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 which is disclosed herein above and referenced in the claims was made with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC 10801 University Blvd. Manassas Va. 20110 2209. The date of deposit was Mar. 12 2015 and the accession number for those deposited seeds of wheat cultivar HV9W08 1836 is ATCC Accession No. PTA 122061. All restrictions upon the deposit have been removed and the deposit is intended to meet all of the requirements of 37 C.F.R. 1.801 1.809. The deposit will be maintained in the depository for a period of 30 years or 5 years after the last request or for the effective life of the patent whichever is longer and will be replaced if necessary during that period.

All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of the foregoing illustrative embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations changes modifications and alterations may be applied to the composition methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the methods described herein without departing from the true concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents that are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The references cited herein to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

