---

title: Influenza A virus vaccines and inhibitors
abstract: The present invention includes compositions and methods related to the structure and function of the cellular polyadenylation and specificity factor 30 (CPSF30) binding site on the surface of the influenza A non-structural protein 1 (NS1). Specifically, critical biochemical reagents, conditions for crystallization and NMR analysis, assays, and general processes are described for (i) discovering, designing, and optimizing small molecule inhibitors of influenza A (avian flu) viruses and (ii) creating attenuated influenza virus strains suitable for avian and human flu vaccine development.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08916519&OS=08916519&RS=08916519
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 08916519
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140624
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 13 907 472 filed on May 31 2013 which is a divisional patent application of U.S. Ser. No. 12 706 804 filed on Feb. 17 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 455 621 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 566 216 filed on Dec. 2 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 190 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 741 764 filed Dec. 2 2005 and Ser. No. 60 852 361 filed Oct. 16 2006. All of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Contract Nos. AI 11772 awarded by the NIH. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates in general to the field of anti viral assays and molecules and more particularly to compositions and methods for developing isolating and characterizing novel Influenza A virus inhibitors and vaccines.

The present application includes a TABLE filed electronically via EFS Web that includes a file named NS1A F2F3. The table was last modified Dec. 1 2006 at 4 49 PM and includes 252 952 bytes.

Without limiting the scope of the invention its background is described in connection with Influenza virus.

Influenza A and B viruses cause a highly contagious respiratory disease in humans resulting in approximately 36 000 deaths in the United States annually Wright and Webster 2001 Prevention 2005 . These annual epidemics also have a large economic impact and cause more than 100 000 hospitalizations per year in the United States alone. Influenza A viruses which infect a wide number of avian and mammalian species are responsible for the periodic widespread epidemics or pandemics that have caused high mortality rates Wright and Webster 2001 . The most devastating pandemic occurred in 1918 which caused an estimated 20 to 40 million deaths worldwide Reid et al. 2001 . Less devastating pandemics occurred in 1957 and 1968. Influenza B virus infections comprise about 20 of the yearly cases but influenza B virus which appears to infect only humans does not cause pandemics Wright and Webster 2001 .

Influenza A and B viruses contain negative stranded RNA genomes which are in the form of eight RNA segments Lamb and Krug 2001 . Most but not all of the corresponding genome RNA segments of influenza A and B viruses encode proteins of similar functions. Here we will focus on influenza A virus. The three largest genome segments encode the three subunits of the polymerase PB1 PB2 and PA. The segment encoding PB1 also encodes a small nonstructural protein PB1 F2 which has apoptotic functions. The middle sized segments encode the hemagglutinin HA the nucleocapsid protein NP and the neuraminidase NA . HA the major surface protein of the virus binds to sialic acid containing receptors on host cells and is the protein against which neutralizing antibodies are produced. NP protein molecules are bound at regular intervals along the entire length of each of the genomic RNAs to form ribonucleoproteins RNPs and also have essential functions in viral RNA replication. The NA viral surface protein removes sialic acid from glycoproteins. One of its major functions is to remove sialic acid during virus budding from the cell surface and from the HA and NA of the newly assembled virions thereby obviating aggregation of the budding virions on the cell surface. The seventh genomic RNA segment encodes two proteins M1 matrix protein and M2. The M1 protein underlies the viral lipid membrane and is thought to interact with the genomic RNPs and with the inner cytoplasmic tails of the surface proteins e.g. HA and NA. The M2 protein is an ion channel protein that is essential for the uncoating of the virus. The smallest segment encodes two proteins NS1A and NS2. The NS2 protein mediates the export of newly synthesized viral RNPs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. The NS1A protein is a multi functional protein not that is not incorporated into virion particles hence the designation non structural and is discussed below.

The primary means for controlling influenza virus epidemics has been vaccination directed primarily against HA Wright and Webster 2001 . However the antigenic structure of the HA of influenza A virus can undergo two types of change Wright and Webster 2001 . Antigenic drift results from the selection of mutant viruses that evade antibodies directed against the major antigenic type of the HA circulating in the human population. Mutant viruses are readily generated because the viral RNA polymerase has no proof reading function. Because of antigenic drift the vaccine has to be reformulated each year. Antigenic shift in HA results from reassortment of genomic RNA segments between human and avian influenza A virus strains resulting in a new potentially pandemic virus encoding a novel avian type HA that is immunologically distinct. The human population has little or no immunological protection against such a new virus. The viruses containing the H2 and H3 HA subtypes that caused pandemics in 1957 and 1968 respectively resulted from the reassortment of avian and human genomic RNA segments Wright and Webster 2001 . The HA of influenza B viruses undergoes antigenic drift but not antigenic shift because influenza B viruses do not have non human hosts.

Pandemic influenza A viruses can also apparently arise by a different mechanism. It has been postulated that the 1918 H1 pandemic strain derived all eight genomic RNAs from an avian virus and that this virus then underwent multiple mutations in the process of adapting to mammalian cells Reid et al. 2004 Taubenberger et al. 2005 . H5N1 viruses which have already spread from Asia to Europe and Africa appear to be undergoing this route for acquiring pandemic capability Horimoto and Kawaoka 2005 Noah and Krug 2005 . These viruses which have been directly transmitted from chickens to humans contain only avian genes and are highly pathogenic in humans. The human mortality rate has been high approximately 55 WHO 2006 . H5N1 viruses have not yet acquired the ability for efficient transmission from humans to humans. Recent studies indicate that efficient human transmission will require more than the acquisition of the ability of HA to bind to human sialic acid receptors in the upper respiratory tract of mammalian organisms Maines et al. 2006 . However at least one H5N1 gene the PB2 gene has already undergone adaptation to mammalian cells Hatta et al. 2001 . The vast majority of pathogenic H5N1 viruses have acquired a lysine at position 627 in the PB2 protein in place of the glutamic acid that is found at this position in avian viruses. The presence of lysine at this position apparently enhances virus replication in mammalian cells but the mechanism of enhancement has not been established Crescenzo Chaigne et al. 2002 Shinya et al. 2004 .

Effective control of a H5N1 pandemic will require the use of antiviral drugs because it is not likely that sufficient amounts of an effective vaccine will be available particularly in the early phase of a fast spreading pandemic Ferguson et al. 2005 Longini et al. 2005 Ferguson et al. 2006 Germann et al. 2006 . Antivirals can be stockpiled and if appropriately used should limit the spread of pandemic influenza virus. The strategies that have been proposed for the use of antivirals to stem a H5N1 pandemic would also be expected to lead to more effective use of antivirals during annual influenza epidemics. Currently there are two classes of antiviral drugs. One class amantadine rimantidine is directed against the M2 ion channel of influenza A viruses Pinto et al. 1992 Wang et al. 1993 Chizhmakov et al. 1996 . Virus mutants resistant to this class of drugs rapidly emerge Cox and Subbarao 1999 Suzuki et al. 2003 and many of the human isolates of H5N1 viruses are already resistant to these drugs Puthavathana et al. 2005 . The other class of drugs is directed at NA and is effective against both influenza A and B viruses von Itzstein et al. 1993 Woods et al. 1993 Ryan et al. 1994 Gubareva et al. 1995 Kim et al. 1997 Mendel et al. 1998 . However H5N1 viruses that are partially or completely resistant to the NA inhibitor oseltamivir have been reported de Jong et al. 2005 Le et al. 2005 . The emergence of H5N1 viruses to these two classes of antiviral drugs highlights the need for additional antiviral drugs against influenza virus.

The present invention includes the structure and function of the cellular polyadenylation and specificity factor 30 CPSF30 binding site or binding epitope on the surface of the influenza A non structural protein 1 NS1 . When referring to influenza A the protein is referred to herein as NS1A. The NS1 protein of influenza A virus will be designated as the NS1A protein to distinguish it from the NS1 protein encoded by influenza B virus which will be designated as the NS1B protein. Several fragments of the NS1A protein were identified from various influenza strains that provide high level expression and solubility in expression systems. The present invention also includes expression systems and protocols for producing large quantities of the previously identified F2F3 fragment of human CPSF30 which binds to the NS1A effector domain Twu et al. 2006 . These fragments of the NS1A protein and of CPSF30 provide high quality NMR spectra suitable for lead compound optimization. Combining these reagents and information we have designed a gel filtration assay suitable for characterizing complex formation between NS1A and CPSF30 or fragments thereof as well as a fluorescence polarization FP assay of NS1A CPSF30 interactions that is suitable for high throughput screening for lead compounds to develop antiviral drugs. Using these reagents complexes of the tetrameric complex between the NS1A effector domain and F2F3 were also generated. We have also developed a process for crystallizing this complex. These crystals were used to determine the 3D structure of the NS1A effector domain F2F3 complex and to definitively identify for the first time all the NS1A amino acids that comprise a portion of the CPSF30 binding epitope in the NS1A protein. These reagents and structural data together with specific site directed mutagenesis data have allowed us to define a structure based process for high throughput screening of inhibitors and lead optimization that will allow development of influenza A antiviral drugs. Also disclosed is a process using these reagents and structural data to develop attenuated strains of influenza A suitable for use as animal e.g. avian or human vaccines.

Using the present invention it is possible for antiviral drug s to be directed at a viral target that differs from that of currently available influenza antivirals. Novel approaches are important because influenza A viruses including avian influenza virus are developing resistance to existing antiviral drugs. The present invention also describes a process for developing vaccines using structural information that has not been previously disclosed. A vaccine using live attenuated strains of influenza A virus is expected to provide better protection than a vaccine using inactivated virus. The present invention may also be used to develop isolate and characterize antiviral drugs and live attenuated virus vaccine for both seasonal and pandemic influenza virus infections.

More particularly the present invention includes a complex of the F2F3 fragment of CPSF30 with the portion of the NS1A protein of influenza A virus comprising amino acid residues 85 to 215 NS1A 85 215 . The complex can be used in a method of identifying an inhibitor of influenza A virus by preparing a reaction system comprising at least a portion of NS1A of an influenza A virus the F2F3 fragment of CPSF30 and a candidate compound and detecting binding between the at least a portion of NS1A and F2F3 wherein reduced binding in the presence of the candidate drug relative to the control is indicative of activity of the compound against influenza virus. Examples of the NS1A fragments are listed in Table 2 and may also include the full length NS1A and mutations thereof. The skilled artisan will recognize that the NS1A protein fragment may be prepared from other strains of influenza A viruses e.g. human influenza A virus a bovine influenza A virus an equine influenza A virus a porcine influenza A virus an avian influenza A virus an avian H5N1 viral strain.

For use with the present invention the CPSF30 may be e.g. a full length CPSF30 F3 zinc finger domain an F2F3 F2F3 tandem duplex an F1F2F3 fragment a soluble fragment of CPSF30 combinations and mutants thereof. Detection of the binding may be by e.g. a high throughput screening assay X ray crystallography nuclear magnetic resonance analytical gel filtration and combinations thereof. Other methods of detecting the interaction of the NS1A and CPSF30 or portions thereof may be e.g. fluorescence resonance energy transfer fluorescence polarization immunofluorescence chemiluminescence radioimmunoassays enzyme linked immunosorbent assays mass spectrometry and combinations thereof. For example fluorescence polarization may use either a fluorescent labeled CPSF30 variant or fragment thereof or a fluorescent labeled NS 1A protein variant or fragments thereof.

The present invention also includes a process for using 3D three dimensional information of the CPSF30 binding epitope on the influenza A virus NS1A protein for identifying inhibitors of an influenza A virus by obtaining concurrently the coordinates for the molecular position of at least a portion of an influenza NS1A protein and at least a portion of a CPSF30 protein and designing a molecule that will fit between the influenza NS1A protein and the CPSF30 protein based on the coordinates. The portion of the NS1A protein and the portion of the CPSF30 protein will generally be selected to provide high quality NMR spectra e.g. the NS1A 85 215 fragment and the F2F3 fragment may be selected to form a tetrameric complex.

In another example the NS1A 85 215 fragment and the F2F3 fragment may form a tetrameric complex that is crystallized. Other examples may use an NS1A 85 215 fragment and the F2F3 fragment form a tetrameric complex that is crystallized and is used to determine the 3D structure of the NS1A 85 215 F2F3 complex using X ray crystallography. The method may also include the step of identifying the NS1A amino acids that constitute the CPSF30 binding portion of the NS1A protein.

Yet another embodiment is a method of designing an inhibitor compound of an influenza A virus based on computational methods wherein the inhibitor that binds at least one residue within the set of residues corresponds to the structure using the crystal structure and its coordinates. The design method may be facilitated by using NMR spectra of samples of NS1A protein fragments NMR spectra of samples of NS1A 85 215 or equivalent constructs thereof. The method may further include the step of optimizing the design of the molecule that fits between the NS1A 85 215 protein and the CPSF30 protein using X ray crystallography and synthetic chemistry. The method of designing an inhibitor compound may also include the step of optimizing the design of the molecule that fits between the NS1A 85 215 protein and the CPSF30 protein using X ray crystallography NMR synthetic chemistry and combinations thereof. Another embodiment of method of designing an inhibitor compound may also include optionally or in combination one or more of the following modifying the F2F3 structure of CPSF30 or any substructure based on its conformation bound to NS1A to rationally design one or more small molecule inhibitors modifying the F2F3 structure of CPSF30 or any substructure to rationally design one or more small molecule inhibitors based on its conformation bound to NS1A of the F2F3 aromatic rings the sidechain of residue Lys101 or combinations thereof modifying the F2F3 structure of CPSF30 or any substructure to rationally design one or more small molecule inhibitors by virtual screening using the three dimensional structure of the NS1A binding pocket to select one or more small molecule inhibitors or using the three dimensional structure of the NS1A binding pocket to select one or more small molecule inhibitors by virtual screening. Any fragments of full length and strains of NS1A and fragments of full length and strains of CPSF30 and combinations thereof may be used in conjunction with the method of designing an inhibitor compound.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes a process for engineering a live attenuated influenza A virus vaccine by mutation of specific residues in the CPSF30 binding epitope of the NS1A protein based on the 3D structure of the complex formed between NS1A 85 215 and F2F3 a tetramer interface and combinations thereof. Specific examples of residues at the tetramer interface site include e.g. F103 L105 M106 and equivalents thereof. Specific examples of residues at the CPSF30 binding epitope include e.g. M106 K110 I117 I119 Q121 D125 V180 G183 G184 W187 and equivalents thereof. The process may further include mutating the double strand RNA binding epitope.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes an attenuated influenza A virus vaccine that includes one or more of eight viral RNA segments wherein a viral RNA segment eight has a first mutation that causes a substitution of a first amino acid corresponding to an amino acid of SEQ. ID. NO. 1 at a position F103 L105 M106 K110 I117 I119 Q121 D125 L144 V180 G183 G184 or W187 wherein the first mutation decreases the CPSF30 binding ability of the NS1A protein. In one embodiment at least a second mutation anywhere in the NS1A protein. The vaccine may also include at least second mutation causes a substitution of at least a second amino acid corresponding to an amino acid of SEQ ID NO. 1 at a position F103 L105 M106 K110 I117 I119 Q121 D125 L144 V180 G183 G184 W187 and equivalents thereof. Alternatively the vaccine may also include at least second mutation with a substitution of at least a second amino acid corresponding to an amino acid of SEQ ID NO. 1 at a position T5 P31 D34 R35 R38 K41 G45 R46 and T49 at a dsRNA binding epitope and equivalents thereof. Alternatively the vaccine may also include at least second mutation with at least second mutation causes a substitution of at least a second and third amino acid corresponding to an amino acid of SEQ. ID. NO. 1 at a position T5 P31 D34 R35 R38 K41 G45 R46 and T49 at a dsRNA binding epitope and or F103 L105 M106 K110 I117 I119 Q121 D125 L144 V180 G183 G184 W187 and equivalents thereof. The influenza virus is a may be a cold adapted influenza virus and will generally be selected to elicit an immune response. Non limiting examples of influenza virus that may be used to make the attenuated vaccine may be is selected from e.g. a human influenza A virus a bovine influenza A virus an equine influenza A virus a porcine influenza A virus an avian influenza A virus an avian H5N1 viral strain.

The present invention also includes a pharmaceutical composition having a live attenuated influenza A virus vaccine by mutation of specific residues in the CPSF30 binding epitope of the NS1A protein based on the 3D structure of the complex formed between NS1A 85 215 and F2F3 a tetramer interaction site and combinations thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. The vaccine may be used in a method of prophylaxis of a disease condition caused by the influenza virus by administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a live attenuated influenza A virus vaccine by mutation of specific residues in the CPSF30 binding epitope of the NS1A protein based on the 3D structure of the complex formed between NS1A 85 215 and F2F3 a tetramer interaction site the dsRNA binding epitope and combinations thereof.

While the making and using of various embodiments of the present invention are discussed in detail below it should be appreciated that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not delimit the scope of the invention.

To facilitate the understanding of this invention a number of terms are defined below. Terms defined herein have meanings as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the areas relevant to the present invention. Terms such as a an and the are not intended to refer to only a singular entity but include the general class of which a specific example may be used for illustration. The terminology herein is used to describe specific embodiments of the invention but their usage does not delimit the invention except as outlined in the claims.

One of the best clues to a protein s function is its structure. The present invention takes advantage of structure based bioinformatics platforms in functional genomics. The structure function data obtained from various structural determination may be used the isolation of novel biopharmaceuticals and or drug targets from gene sequence information with greater efficiency. One way to identify the biochemical and medical function of a gene product is to determine its three dimensional structure. Although there are numerous examples in which the primary i.e. linear structure of a protein has provided key clues to its biochemical function three dimensional 3D structure determination is considered to be more definitive at establishing biochemical function and mechanisms underlying these functions.

Protein structure. It is a generally accepted principle of biology that a protein s primary sequence is the main determinant of its tertiary structure. Anfinsen Science 181 223 230 1973 Anfinsen and Scheraga Adv. Prot. Chem. 29 205 300 1975 and Baldwin Ann. Rev. Biochem. 44 453 475 1975 . For over a decade researchers have been studying the theoretical and practical aspects of the folding of recombinant proteins.

Generally proteins are composed of one or more autonomously folding units known as domains. Kim et al. Ann. Rev Biochem. 59 631 660 1990 Nilsson et al. Ann. Rev. Microbiol. 45 607 635 1991 . Multi domain proteins in higher organisms are encoded by genes containing multiple exons and combinatorial shuffling of exons during evolution has produced novel proteins with different domain arrangements having different associated functions. Multi domain protein may increase the ability of higher organisms to respond to environmental challenges because via recombinational events because the genomes may readily add subtract or rearrange discrete functionalities within a given protein. Patthy Cell 41 657 663 1985 Patthy Curr. Opin. Struct. Bio. 4 383 392 1994 and Long et al. Science 92 12495 12499 1995 .

Interpretation of a protein structure. Several methods have been used to elucidate the 3D structure of a given protein molecule e.g. X ray crystallography and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR .

X ray crystallography. X ray crystallography is a technique that directly images molecules. A crystal of the molecule to be visualized is exposed to a collimated beam of monochromatic X rays and the consequent diffraction pattern is recorded on a photographic film or by a radiation counter. The intensities of the diffraction maxima are then used to construct mathematically the three dimensional image of the crystal structure. X rays interact almost exclusively with the electrons in the matter and not the nuclei. The spacing of atoms in a crystal lattice can be determined by measuring the angle and intensities at which a beam of X rays of a given wave length is diffracted by the electron shells surrounding the atoms. Operationally there are several steps in X ray structural analysis. The amount of information obtained depends on the degree of structural order in the sample. Blundell et al. provide an advanced treatment of the principles of protein X ray crystallography. Blundell et al. Protein Crystallography Academic Press 1976 herein incorporated by reference. Likewise Wyckoff et al. provide a series of articles on the theory and practice of X ray crystallography. Wyckoff et al. Eds. Methods Enzymol. 114 330 386 1985 relevant portions herein incorporated by reference. Important techniques for X ray crystallography include methods for determining diffraction data phases by a multiple anomalous dispersion MAD method described for example in Hendrickson 1991 particularly using biosynthethic enrichment with seleno methione SeMet and a molecular replacement method described for example in Rossmann M. G. The molecular replacement method. Acta Cryst. A46 73 82 1990 .

Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR . A general approach for the analysis of NMR resonance assignments was first outlined by Wuthrich Wagner and co workers. Wuthrich NMR of proteins and nucleic acids Wiley New York N.Y. 1986 Wuthrich Science 243 45 50 1989 Billeter et al. J. Mol Biol. 155 321 346 1982 relevant portions of each incorporated herein by reference. For a general review of protein determination in solution by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy see Wuthrich Science 243 45 50 1989 Billeter et al. J. Mol. Biol. 155 321 346 1982 . More recent improvements using multidimensional and triple resonance NMR methods described for example in J. Cavanagh W. Fairbrother A. Palmer and N. Skelton Protein NMR Specroscopy Principles and Practice 2ed Ed Academic Press NY 2006 incorporated herein familiar to someone trained in the art are elaborations of these basic principles.

As used herein the terms CPSF30 binding epitope or CPSF binding site refer to that portion of the NS1 protein of influenza that interacts with one or more zinc fingers of the CPSF30 protein.

As used herein the terms NS1A binding epitope or NS1A binding site refer to that portion of the CPSF30 protein that interacts with the NS1 protein of influenza A.

As used herein the term tetramer interface refers to those portions of the NS1A protein and the CSPF30 protein that interact NS1A CPSF30 complex which can be a dimer or tetramer.

As used herein the terms double strand RNA binding site or doubled stranded RNA binding epitope refer to that portion of the NS1A protein that interacts with double stranded RNA e.g. for suppressing host innate immune response. Greater structural details regarding the double strand RNA binding site is taught by the present co inventors in PCT US2003 036 292 Process for Designing Inhibitors of Influenza Virus Non Structural Protein 1 relevant portions incorporated herein by reference and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 737 742 Novel Compositions and Vaccines Against Influenza and Influenza B Infections and PTC Patent Application Filed Nov. 17 2006 Novel Compositions and Vaccines Against Influenza and Influenza B Infections relevant portions and tables incorporated herein by reference.

As used herein the term epitope refers to a portion of a protein that is capable of interacting with the same or another protein and that can be define by atoms in amino acids in a linear sequence by atoms in amino acids that are located throughout the protein or subunits thereof and that come together in three dimensions to form an interactive structure. The skilled artisan will recognize that an epitope may be a structure such as a zinc finger a portion of a molecular surface between two or more polypeptides that are capable of interacting and or a binding pocket or enzymatic pocket that lead to a function or interaction of the protein.

As used herein the following nomenclature is used to define the zinc finger domains of the CPSF30 protein that interact NS1A namely F1 F2 and F3 when referring to individual zinc fingers F1F2 F2F3 when referring to a pair of zinc fingers and F1F2F3 when referring to the three zinc fingers.

As used herein the term rationally design refers to a series of steps for designing e.g. initial small molecule inhibitors that may be further refined through medicinal chemistry and or the selection of inhibitors that can be further modified chemically and that fit the molecular characteristics of a molecule that will meet the design criteria for modifying the interactions between or the activity of NS1A and CPSF30 based fully and or at least in part on the three dimensional 3D coordinates described herein.

As used herein the term virtual screening refers to in silico design using computer software to screen for possible binding ligands from a library of virtual molecules allowing the characterization and refinement of small molecule inhibitors that will meet the design criteria for modifying the interactions between or the activity of NS1A and CPSF30 based fully and or at least in part on the three dimensional 3D coordinates described herein.

As used herein the term corresponding positions refers to amino acids at that are generally in the same spatial location in the three dimensional structures of homologous protein structures. In one example a corresponding position is determined by 3D structure alignment using standard techniques known to a person skilled in the art such as the PRISM program described by Yang and Hong Yang A. S. and Honig B. 2000 An Integrated Approach to the Analysis of Sequence and Structure. I. Protein Structural Alignment and a Quantitative Measure for Protein Structural Distance. J. Mol. Biol. 301 665 678 Yang A. S. and Honig B. 2000 An Integrated Approach to the Analysis of Sequence and Structure. III. A Comparative Study of Sequence Conservation in Protein Structural Families Using Multiple Structural Alignments or the VISTAL program described by Kolodny R. and Honig B. 2006 VISTAL A New 2D Visualization Tool of Protein 3D Structural Alignments. Bioinformatics 22 2166 2167 e.g. using the default settings for either relevant portions incorporated herein by reference. The alignment may include the introduction of gaps in the sequences to be aligned. In the absence of 3D structures for protein pairs corresponding positions may be identified until such time that the requisite 3D structures are available by sequence based alignment using standard techniques known to a person skilled in the art such as a Needleman Wunsch dynamic programming algorithm described in Needleman S. B. and Wunsch C. D. J Mol Biol. 48 443 453 1970 a Gapped BLAST PSI BLAST algorithm described in Altschul et al Nucl. Acid. Res. 25 3389 3402 1997 or a CLUSTAL W X multiple sequence alignment algorithm described in Thompson J. D. Higgins D. G. and Gibson T. J. 1994 CLUSTAL W improving the sensitivity of progressive multiple sequence alignment through sequence weighting position specific gap penalties and weight matrix choice. Nucl. Acid. Res. 22 4673 80 1994 . e.g. using the default settings for either relevant portions incorporated herein by reference. Corresponding position alignment s may also include the introduction of gaps in the sequences to be aligned.

Further examples of corresponding positions are taught by the present co inventors in PCT US2003 036 292 Process for Designing Inhibitors of Influenza Virus Non Structural Protein 1 relevant portions incorporated herein by reference and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 737 742 Novel Compositions and Vaccines Against Influenza and Influenza B Infections and PTC Patent Application Filed Nov. 17 2006 Novel Compositions and Vaccines Against Influenza and Influenza B Infections relevant portions and tables incorporated herein by reference.

Non limiting examples of numerous influenza A strains may be used with the present invention including those strains that are readily available or will become available as they emerge in human populations. Examples of influenza A strains for use and analysis with the present invention may include A Memphis 8 88 A Chile 1 83 A Kiev 59 79 A Udorn 307 72 A NT 60 68 A Korea 426 68 A Great Lakes 0389 65 A Ann Arbor 6 60 A Leningrad 13 57 A Singapore 1 57 A PR 8 34 A Vietnam 1203 04 A HK 483 97 A South Carolina 1 181918 the 1918 pandemic virus H1N1 strain and A WSN 33. The sequences of these strains are available from GenBank CDC and viral stock may be available from the American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. or are otherwise publicly available.

As used herein the term variant gene or protein refers to a gene or protein that differs from the wild type gene or protein by way of nucleotide or amino acid substitution s addition s deletion s and combinations thereof. Depending on the context the term mutant is also used to describe variations from the wild type sequence that are natural introduced at random and or introduced into a gene or protein sequence specifically. Likewise a fragment is used to describe a fragment of the complete length of the translated polypeptide whether natural or not. Often the skilled artisan will design fragments that include or avoid certain amino acid that may affect e.g. synthesis or cause steric hindrance or other design requirements. When designing alternate peptide constructs with enhanced anti viral properties substitutions may be used which modulate one or more properties of the molecule. Variants typically include the exchange of one amino acid for another at one or more sites within the peptide. For example certain amino acids may be substituted for other amino acids in a peptide structure in order to enhance the interactive binding capacity of the structures. Certain amino acid substitutions can be made in a protein sequence or its underlying DNA coding sequence to create a peptide with superior functional characteristics. In particular those changes that enhance the amphipathic helical nature may be desired.

As used herein the term candidate compound refers to any molecule that may inhibit influenza viral growth. The candidate substance may be a protein or fragment thereof a small molecule or even a nucleic acid molecule. Various commercial sources of small molecule libraries meet the basic criteria for useful drugs in an effort to brute force the identification of useful candidate compounds. Screening of such libraries including libraries generated combinatorially e.g. peptide libraries aptamer libraries small molecule libraries is a rapid and efficient way to screen large number of related and unrelated compounds for activity. Combinatorial approaches also lend themselves to rapid evolution of potential drugs by the creation of second third and fourth generation compounds modeled of active but otherwise undesirable compounds. Candidate compounds may be screened from large libraries of synthetic or natural compounds. One example of a candidate compound library is an FDA approved library of compounds that can be used by humans. Synthetic compound libraries are commercially available from a number of companies including Maybridge Chemical Co. Trevillet Cornwall UK Comgenex Princeton N.J. Brandon Associates Merrimack N.H. and Microsource New Milford Conn. and a rare chemical library is available from Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. . Combinatorial libraries are available or can be prepared. Alternatively libraries of natural candidate compounds in the form of bacterial fungal plant and animal extracts are also available from for example Pan Laboratories Bothell Wash. or MycoSearch N.C. or can be readily prepared by methods well known in the art. Candidate compounds isolated from natural sources such as animals bacteria fungi plant sources including leaves and bark and marine samples may be assayed as candidates for the presence of potentially useful pharmaceutical agents. It will be understood that the pharmaceutical agents to be screened could also be derived or synthesized from chemical compositions or man made compounds.

The anti viral agents disclosed herein may be used in conjunction with methods to reduce virus growth infectivity burden shed development of anti viral resistance and to enhance the efficacy of traditional anti viral therapies.

The anti viral properties of the peptides disclosed herein allow them to be included in formulations to inhibit virus growth and proliferation. The purified anti viral peptides may be used without further modifications or they may be diluted in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The invention may be administered to humans or animals included in food and pharmaceutical preparations. They anti viral agents may also be used in medicinal and pharmaceutical products such as fluid containers iv. bags tubing syringes etc. as well as in cosmetic products hygienic products cleaning products and cleaning agents as well as any material to which the peptides could be sprayed on or adhered to wherein the inhibition of virucidal growth on such a material is desired.

The dosage of an anti viral peptide necessary to prevent viral growth and proliferation depends upon a number of factors including the types of virus that might be present the environment into which the peptide is being introduced and the time that the peptide is envisioned to remain in a given area.

As used herein the phrases pharmaceutically or pharmacologically acceptable refer to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce adverse allergic or other untoward reactions when administered to an animal or a human. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well know in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the vectors or cells of the present invention its use in therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients also can be incorporated into the compositions.

The active antiviral agents of the present invention may be formulated into classic pharmaceutical preparations and administered via any common route so long as the target tissue is available via that route. These routes of administration include e.g. oral alveolar nasal buccal rectal vaginal or topical. In particular use of the anti viral peptides of the present invention in a condom or diaphragm optionally in conjunction with a spermicidal or other contraceptive substance is envisioned. Alternatively administration may be orthotopic intradermal subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitoneal or intravenous. The antiviral agent may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Solutions of the antiviral agent may be compounded into a free base or pharmacologically acceptable salts can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The antiviral agent s will generally be provided in a pharmaceutical dosage form suitable for injectable use e.g. sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. For widespread use the antiviral agents may be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The antiviral agents will commonly be provided with a carrier e.g. a solvent or dispersion medium that may include e.g. water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. Proper dosage fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and or antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases the dosage form will include isotonic agents e.g. sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Generally sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle that includes the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. Preparation of sterile powders for injectable solutions maybe prepared by e.g. vacuum drying spray freezing freeze drying or other techniques that yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

As used herein a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and anti fungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions.

For oral administration the antiviral agent s of the present invention may be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible or non ingestible mouthwashes and dentifrices. A mouthwash may be prepared incorporating the active ingredient in the required amount in an appropriate solvent such as a sodium borate solution Dobell s Solution . Alternatively the antiviral agent s may be incorporated into an antiseptic wash containing sodium borate glycerin and potassium bicarbonate. The antiviral agent s may also be dispersed in dentifrices e.g. gels pastes powders and slurries. The antiviral agent s may be added in a therapeutically effective amount to a paste dentifrice that may include water binders abrasives flavoring agents foaming agents and humectants.

The antiviral agent s may be formulated in a neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts formed with the free amino groups of the protein and which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric and the like. Salts may also be formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine histidine procaine and the like.

Upon formulation the antiviral agent s will be administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective. The formulations are easily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as injectable solutions drug release capsules and the like. Sterile aqueous media that can be employed will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure e.g. Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 21st Edition Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2005 relevant portions incorporated herein by reference. Some variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the condition of the subject being treated for which the skilled artisan will determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject. Moreover for human administration preparations should meet sterility pyrogenicity general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.

In one embodiment the vaccine comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. The suitable vehicles may be both aqueous and non aqueous. Examples of non aqueous solvents are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Carriers or occlusive dressings can be used to increase skin permeability and enhance antigen absorption. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration may generally comprise a liposome solution containing the liquid dosage form. Suitable forms for suspending liposomes include emulsions suspensions solutions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art such as purified water.

Besides the inert diluents such compositions can also include adjuvants immunostimulats immunosuppressants wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents or any combination thereof.

Examples of suitable adjuvants include without limitation incomplete Freund s adjuvant aluminum phosphate aluminum hydroxide or alum Stimulon QS 21 Aquila Biopharmaceuticals Inc. Framingham Mass. MPL 3 0 deacylated monophosphoryl lipid A Corixa Hamilton Mont. and interleukin 12 Genetics Institute Cambridge Mass. .

A person of the ordinary skill in the art has a sufficient expertise to determine the dosage of the vaccines of the instant invention. Such dosage depends on the pathogenicity of the virus included in the vaccine and on the ability of the antigen to elicit an appropriate immune response. In different embodiments of the invention a virus vaccine composition of the instant invention may comprise from about 10 10plaque forming units PFU ml or any range or value therein e.g. 10 10 10 10 10 or 10 where the virus is attenuated. A vaccine composition comprising an inactivated virus can comprise an amount of virus corresponding to about 0.1 to 200 g of the amino acid sequences of the instant invention per ml or any range or value therein.

The vaccines of the instant invention can be applied in multiple ways. According to one embodiment of the invention the intranasal administration is via the mucosal route. The intranasal administration of the vaccine composition can be formulated for example in liquid form such as for example nose drops spray or suitable for inhalation. In other embodiment the vaccine may be administered as a powder or a cream or an emulsion.

In another embodiment the vaccines of the instant invention are applied by an injection including without limitation intradermal transdermal intramuscular intraperitoneal and intravenous. According to another embodiment of the invention the administration is oral and the vaccine may be presented for example in the form of a tablet or encased in a gelatin capsule or a microcapsule which simplifies oral application. The production of these forms of administration is within the general knowledge of a technical expert.

As used herein detectable labels refer to compounds and or elements that can be detected due to their specific functional properties and or chemical characteristics the use of which allows the agent to which they are attached to be detected and or further quantified if desired such as e.g. an enzyme an antibody a linker a radioisotope an electron dense particle a magnetic particle or a chromophore. The detectable label may be half of a fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET pair for FRET variations see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 593 091 issued to Keys relevant portions incorporated herein by reference . There are many types of detectable labels including fluorescent labels which are easily handled inexpensive and nontoxic. Another example of a detection method relies on hydrogel coated donor and acceptor beads providing functional groups for conjugation to biomolecules. AlphaScreen by Berthold Technologies Bad Wildbad Germany Rouleau N. Turcotte S. Mondou M. H. Roby P. Bosse R. 2003 J Biomol Screen 8 191 7. .

The present inventors recognized that certain regions of the NS1A protein can be targeted for the development of antiviral drugs. The NS1A protein is a multi functional dimeric protein that participates in both protein RNA and protein protein interactions Krug et al. 2003 . The effector domain which comprises the C terminal two thirds of the NS1A protein contains the binding site for the 30 kDa subunit of the cellular cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor CPSF30 Nemeroff et al. 1998 Li et al. 2001 . This interaction results in the inhibition of 3 end processing of all cellular pre mRNAs in infected cells and as a consequence the production of mature mRNAs encoding antiviral proteins such as interferon IFN is severely inhibited during infection Shimizu et al. 1999 Kim et al. 2002 Noah et al. 2003 . This inhibition is crucial to viral replication and spread because influenza A virus like several other RNA viruses Yoneyama et al. 2004 Sumpter et al. 2005 Seth et al. 2006 efficiently activates the RIG I RNA helicase and thereby triggers both the activation of IRF 3 and NF kB and the synthesis of IFN beta and other antiviral pre mRNAs Geiss et al. 2002 Kim et al. 2002 Siren et al. 2006 . A recombinant influenza A Udorn 72 virus expressing a NS1A protein with a mutated binding epitope for CPSF30 induced high levels of IFN beta mRNA during infection and was highly attenuated 100 1000 fold Noah et al. 2003 Twu et al. 2006 . A 61 amino acid domain of CPSF30 comprising two of its zinc fingers i.e. the F2F3 fragment was found to bind efficiently to the NS1A protein Twu et al. 2006 . The expression of the F2F3 domain in cells leads to the inhibition of influenza A virus replication and increased production of IFN beta mRNA indicating that F2F3 likely blocks the binding of endogenous CPSF30 to the NS1A protein Twu et al. 2006 . These results validate the binding epitope on NS1A for CPSF30 as a potential target for the development of small molecule antiviral drugs directed against influenza A virus and as a target for engineering strains of virus that can be used as live attenuated vaccines.

Previous studies showed that residues 184 188 in the protein sequence of the NS1A protein are required for functional binding of CPSF30 Li et al. 2001 Noah et al. 2003 . Thus this region is required for the binding of CPSF30 in vitro Li et al. 2001 and mutation of amino acids 184 188 in the NS1A protein of a recombinant Udorn virus results in high attenuation coupled with increased synthesis of IFN beta Noah et al. 2003 . These data demonstrate that this binding epitope is essential for virus replication. As shown by the structural studies described below the 184 188 region of the NS1A protein sequence constitutes a subset of the CPSF30 binding epitope observed in the 3D structure of the complex between NS1A effector domain and F2F3 which is disclosed for the first time in this Disclosure.

Studies with the NS1A proteins of H5N1 viruses established that the Met M residue at position 106 is required for functional F2F3 CPSF30 binding. We showed that the NS1A protein encoded by a pathogenic H5N1 virus that was transmitted to humans in 1997 A HK 483 97 HK97 lacks a binding epitope for CPSF30 whereas the NS1A protein encoded by a pathogenic 2004 H5N1 virus A Vietnam 1203 04 VN04 has acquired this binding epitope. We were able to generate a CPSF30 binding epitope in the HK97 NS1A protein by changing two of its amino acids to the corresponding amino acids in the VN04 NS1A protein specifically by changing I at position 106 to M and L at 103 to F. To determine the effects of these two amino acid changes in the HK97 NS1A protein during virus infection a recombinant Udorn virus was generated in which the Udorn NS gene was replaced by a HK97 NS gene encoding a NS1A protein with these two mutations Ud dmHK97 recombinant . The recombinant virus was then compared to the recombinant Ud virus containing the wild type HK97 NS gene Ud HK97 recombinant . During multiple cycle growth the rate of replication and virus yield of the Ud dmHK97 recombinant was 100 fold greater than with the Ud HK97 recombinant virus and is thus similar to the Udorn parent virus. During single cycle growth the Ud HK97 virus induced a high level of IFN beta mRNA production which was almost completely suppressed in the cells infected by the Ud dmHK97 virus . Most importantly the replication of the Ud dmHK97 virus was inhibited in F2F3 expressing cells data not shown indicating that the dmHK97 NS1A protein binds F2F3 in infected cells. The roles of Phe at 103 and the Met at 106 in the NS1A protein in forming the F2F3 CPSF30 complex is elucidated by the herein disclosed X ray crystal structure of the NS1A F2F3 complex which reveals that amino acids 103 and 106 are required for CPSF30 binding because their hydrophobic interactions stabilize a tetrameric structure of the NS1A F2F3 complex see below . It should also be emphasized that essentially all 98 of the influenza A viruses H3N2 H2N2 and H1N1 that have been isolated from humans including the 1918 H1N1 virus and include M and F at positions 106 and 103 in their NS1A proteins respectively indicating that these two amino acids which are critical for CPSF30 binding and the resulting suppression of the production of IFN mRNA are conserved in human influenza A viruses. Accordingly the tetrameric complex described in this disclosure is anticipated to be critical for the CSPF30 binding function of all such human influenza A viruses.

Novel Reagents and Structural Data. To further delineate the interface between F2F3 of CPSF30 and the NS1A protein the inventors determined the three dimensional 3D structure of the tetrameric F2F3 NS1A complex. Ninety 90 different constructs Table 2 were screened in order to find constructs suitable for crystallization and NMR analysis. These variants summarized in Tables 3 and 4 included 8 11 different full length or subsequences of NS1A with N terminal N His and C terminal C His affinity purification tags prepared as described in Acton et al. 2005 from influenza A strains A South Carolina 1 181918 the 1918 pandemic virus H1N1 strain HK97 A HK 483 97 1997 Hong Kong VN04 A Vietnam 1203 04 2005 Vietnam and Udorn A Udorn 72 respectively. These were assessed in terms of expression level and solubility Tables 3 and 4 ability to purify and biophysical properties including 2D N H heteronuclear single quantum coherence correlation spectroscopy HSQC . Many of these reagents disclosed for the first time here are useful for influenza A research purposes and for structural studies. The inventors focused on two specific constructs that provide particularly high expression and solubility making them especially useful for biochemical and biophysical studies the C terminal hexaHis tagged 85 215 amino acid fragments of the NS1A proteins from i influenza A Udorn 72 A Udorn and ii the H5N1 strain A Vietnam 1203 04 A VN04 . These highly soluble constructs can be produced in tens of milligram per liter quantities and have been produced with SeMet labeling for crystallography and with N enrichment for NMR studies. Excellent quality HSQC NMR spectra can be obtained for these two constructs in the pH range 5.5 to 6.5 . Under these conditions these constructs are of sufficiently good quality to indicate high feasibility for further NMR studies. They are also useful for small molecule screening studies. In addition the F2F3 fragment of CPSF30 has been cloned into a pET expression vector with a N terminal hexaHis tag tag sequences are defined in Acton et al. 2005 produced with uniform C N enrichment and complete backbone and sidechain resonance assignments have been determined using standard triple resonance NMR methods Montelione et al. 1999 . These NMR optimized sample conditions and resonance assignments are useful for small molecule screening lead optimization and structure function studies of F2F3 NS1A interactions.

Because virus studies have used influenza A Udorn 72 virus to identify CPSF30 binding activity during virus infection CPSF30 Li et al. 2001 Noah et al. 2003 we have developed an assay for the binding of the NS1A Udorn effector domain to the F2F3 fragment of CPSF30 in vitro using analytical gel filtration with detection of effluent by simultaneous refractive index and static light scattering measurements. The chromatography system used for this assay is described in Acton et al. 2005 in which it is used for other applications. In these studies illustrated in the NS1A Udorn 85 215 construct elutes as a dimer with molecular weight of 30 kDa. When this effector domain construct is first mixed with the 8.5 kDa F3F3 fragment the resulting complex elutes with a molecular weight of 50 kDa indicating a stoichiometry of 2 F2F3 2 NS1A effector domains. This gel filtration assay provides a convenient qualitative measure of F2F3 binding by NS1A effector domains.

Suitable samples of NS1A Udorn 85 215 the NS1A Udorn 85 215 F2F3 complex and other constructs listed in Table 2 and their complexes with F2F3 and CPSF30 derived constructs can be produced and assessed using this gel filtration assay. These can then be crystallized for X ray crystallographic analysis. Initial crystals of the NS1A Udorn 85 215 F2F3 complex were obtained by high throughput robotic screening using service facilities available through the Hauptman Woodward Res. Inst. Buffalo N.Y. Luft et al. 2003 Acton et al. 2005 . Crystallization optimization was then carried out for the NS1A Udorn 85 215 F2F3 complex at Rutgers yielding diffraction quality bi pyramid crystal of size 0.15 0.15 0.25 mm. Conditions providing crystals and a description of these crystals are presented herein below. Three wavelength Se Met multiple anomalous diffraction MAD 2.3 resolution and a complete native 1.95 resolution data sets were collected at X25 beam line at Brookhaven National Laboratories. The structure was solved by MAD techniques Hendrickson 1991 and refined to 1.95 resolution and is currently refined to a R factor of 0.225 and R free of 0.245 respectively.

Crystallization of NS1A Udorn 85 215 F2F3 Complex. Initial crystallization conditions for NS1A Udorn 85 215 F2F3 complex were obtained by using robotic crystallization facility at the Buffalo facility described above. The most promising condition use 1.77 M potassium nitrate KNO at pH 5.0 as precipitant. This initial crystallization condition was optimized manually at Rutgers. Good quality crystals were obtained using 0.25 1.0 M KNOand 10 20 sucrose glucose as precipitant at pH 5 6. Diffraction quality crystals were obtained when P94S mutant F2F3 was used in the complex though similar conditions are expected to provide crystals of the complex with the wild type P94 F2F3 sequence. The NS1A Udorn 85 215 F2F3 complex was crystallized with the symmetry of the space group P4with cell parameters a b 50.96 c 205.39 and 90 . A variant used in the X ray crystal structure determination of NS1 85 215 F2F3 complex has Ser in place of Pro at position 94.

Key residues Met106 Met106 of NS1A are packed in the core of the tetrameric interface or tetramerization epitope explaining its critical role in CPSF30 binding as discussed above. However while Met 106 Met106 are at the core of the tetrameric complex they are not part of the primary F2F3 CPSF30 binding pocket. illustrates the F2F3 binding pocket on the surface the Udorn NS1A effector domain. Specific interactions in this primary binding pocket involve residues K110 I117 I119 Q121 V180 G183 G184 and W187 of NS1A and residues F97 F98 F103 and K110 of the F3 finger of CPSF30. It should be noted that these residues include not only amino acids in or adjacent to the 184 188 sequence previously identified as part of the CPSF30 binding epitope by mutagenesis studies but also amino acids in other regions in the NS1A protein not previously recognized to be essential for CPSF30 binding. Mutation of residues G183 or G184 in NS1A 85 215 each to Arg or Asp disrupts or reduces F2F2 binding affinity and or tetramer formation based on analytical gel filtration measurements without significantly disrupting the native structure of NS1A 85 215 indicated by N H HSQC NMR spectra data not shown demonstrating a functional role of these sites within the CPSF30 binding epitope of NS1A. Recombinant Udorn viruses encoding NS1A proteins in which either G184 or W187 was changed to Arg are attenuated data not shown further demonstrating that these amino acids are required for virus replication. The eight residues in the CPSF30 binding epitope of NS1A are almost 100 conserved amongst influenza A viruses isolated from humans Macken et al. 2001 except for Ile117 which is frequently replaced by Met. Based on this structure disclosed for the first time here we propose disruption of 2NS1A 2F2F3 tetramerization as a strategy to inhibit influenza A virus in human. Based on our structural data we further propose that a small molecule inhibitor that binds tightly to the above described conserved epitope and surrounding regions will disrupt CPSF30 binding and will inhibit influenza A virus in humans. This pocket on the surface of the NS1A effector domain is the target of our proposed drug discovery process.

Table 1 describes some of the specific location of the epitopes described herein as the tetramerization RNA binding and CPSF30 binding epitopes of NS1A.

Recently the crystal structure of the NS1A effector domain residues 79 to 205 of the influenza A PR8 34 PR8 virus strain was reported Bornholdt and Prasad 2006 . This PR8 influenza strain is adapted for passage in mouse presumably as a result of mouse adaptation the PR8 NS gene attenuates virus growth in mammalian cells in tissue culture Ozaki et al 2004 . The PR8 NS1A protein does not bind F2F3 because it lacks the consensus human sequence at positions 106 I instead of M and 103 S instead of F Macken et al 2001 therefore we can determine if the attenuation of growth in mammalian cells is caused primarily by the changed amino acids at positions 106 and 103 in the PR8 NS1A protein data not shown . The absence of a CPSF30 binding epitope in the PR8 NS1A protein presumably resulted from the large number of passages in mice that have adapted the virus for replication in mice. Consequently the 3D structure of effector domain of the PR8 NS1A protein Bornholdt and Prasad 2006 is not suitable for structure based drug discovery efforts. In addition its structure may differ from that of a NS1A protein containing a functional CPSF30 binding epitope. Indeed the 3D structures of the Udorn effector domain monomers in our complex are similar to but not identical with the structure of the monomers of the PR8 NS1A effector domain structure . The PR8 NS1A structure does not have a F2F3 binding epitope like that observed in the 3D structure of the Udorn NS1A structure described herein. In particular the PR8 NS1A structures lack the hydrophobic pocket that binds F2F3 in the NS1A F2F3 complex. Moreover the dimeric interface in crystal structure of the PR8 NS1A effector domain has an intermolecular beta sheet interaction that is completely different from the interface in the crystal structure of the Udorn NS1A effector domain bound to F2F3. Therefore the dimer of the effector domain of the PR8 NS1A protein is not relevant for the binding of CPSF 30 and to our proposed drug design strategy.

Fluorescence polarization FP assay. Fluorescence polarization FP is a spectroscopic method that measures the rotational rate of a sample in solution. It applies polarized light to excite a fluorophore and measures the polarization characteristics of the emitted light Nasir and Jolley 1999 Roehrl et al. 2004b . If the sample tumbles slowly compared to the lifetime of the fluorescence the emitted light retains some of the incident polarization. However if the sample tumbles fast the emitted light is isotropic. Therefore the degree of anisotropy polarization of the fluorescent light emitted from a sample provides a measure of the fluorophore s rotational correlation time in the bound state. Given appropriate bound state lifetimes rotational correlation times and changes in rotational correlation upon complex formation FP assays can be used to measure binding affinities and to screen for binding inhibitors Schade et al. 1996 Seethala and Menzel 1998 Roehrl et al. 2004a .

FP with fluorescently labeled F2F3. A FP assay of F2F3 binding by NS1A is being implemented. As mentioned above complex formation between F2F3 and various effector domain constructs is observed in gel filtration studies see indicating a dissociation constant Ktighter than low micromolar. These data of demonstrate the feasibility of implementing a FP assay for detecting NS1A F2F3 binding. Moreover excellent HSQC spectra and essentially complete NMR resonance assignments are available for the F2F3 construct data not shown these will be used to assess the native structural integrity of fluorescently labeled CPSF30 fragments.

In one embodiment of the invention we will generate a fluorescein or other fluorophore labeled F2F3 Fluo F2F3 substrate for FP assay. The F2F3 sequence of human CPSF30 contains 7 Lys and 6 Cys residues and fluorophore labeling requires careful consideration to ensure proper folding with Zn ligation by these six Cys residues. Two primary strategies will be pursued for labeling F2F3 i chemical synthesis with a fluorophore label and ii synthesis or biosynthesis of an analog suitable for specific labeling. The 61 residue F2F3 is sufficiently short to allow fluorophore labeling by solid phase peptide synthesis for example by a commercial supplier such as New England Peptide Inc. Gardner Mass. . The crystal structure of F2F3 bound to the NS1A effector domain indicates that the N terminal region is not involved in key binding interactions and suggests that it may be possible to generate shorter constructs with similar binding affinities. Those constructs that show tight binding can be synthesized in 100 mg amounts and assayed for structural integrity by N H HSQC NMR analysis at natural isotopic abundance using a 800 MHz NMR system with cryoprobe.

If for some reason this approach is not successful fluorophone labeled F2F3 will be produced by overexpression with a flash peptide sequence tag Griffin et al. 1998 Griffin et al. 2000 Abrams 2002 . When the tetra cysteine tag NH Cys Cys Pro Gly Cys Cys . . . is incorporated into proteins peptides it can be specifically conjugated to a biarsenyl fluorophore ligand sold by Invitrogen as their Lumio technology . The modification can even specifically label the tetra cysteine tag in vivo Griffin et al. 2000 and thus should not react with any of the six cysteine residues on F2F3. If even both of these approaches prove to be problematic for this tandem Zn finger domain alternative strategies for fluorophore labeling are available such as the method of Ting and colleagues Chen and Ting 2005 that utilizes biotin ligase together with appropriate cofactors to introduce fluorescein in a short N terminal acceptor peptide lacking any Cys residues allowing the fluorophore to be introduced subsequent to forming the Zn fingers.

Using any of the above labeling approaches or other possible approaches the labeled F2F3 can then be folded with Zn ligation using the same protocol we have developed for unlabeled F2F3. In exploring each of these approaches we will verify that the fluorophore in the N terminal tag becomes sufficiently immobilized in the complex to provide a significant change in fluorescence anisotropy. If required a more immobilized Cys residue within the F2F3 sequence with be introduced without interfering with Zn finger formation using our 3D structure of the NS1A 85 215 F2F3 complex as a guide. Using one of these labeling routes or any approach for introducing the fluorescence tag the resulting FP assay will be validated by measuring competition with unlabeled F2F3.

The crystal structure of the complex between NS1A Udorn 85 215 and the F2F3 CPSF30 reveals that most of the intermolecular interactions between NS1A and F2F3 involve the F3 Zn finger domain . Accordingly a smaller flourescein labeled F3 finger Fluo F3 with 4 kDa molecular weight may have preferential properties in developing a FP assay. Though the binding of the NS1A effector domain to Fluo F3 is likely to be somewhat weaker than the binding to F2F3 the change in rotational correlation time and thus the signal to noise of the FP assay will be significantly higher using Fluo F3 than using Fluo F2F3. These design principles may be advantageous in development of a high throughput FP assay useful in screening for inhibitors of CPSF30 or variants mutants or fragments thereof binding to NS1A or variants mutants or fragments thereof .

The crystal structure of the complex between NS1A Udorn 85 215 and the F2F3 fragment further suggests that a tandem repeat of the F2F3 fragment connected by a short flexible linker F2F3 F2F3 could also bind in a manner similar to the two independent F2F3 molecules though potentially with much tighter binding affinity. Accordingly we will generate a variety of F2F3 F2F3 constructs as outlined below assay their binding and assess the oligomerization states of these complexes by gel filtration with light scattering detection. If indeed a tandem repeat F2F3 F2F3 construct can be generated with even tighter binding than F2F3 itself it will be used in a more sensitive FP assay capable of detecting only more tightly binding inhibitors.

The magnitude of the change in fluorescence anisotropy which determines the signal to noise of the FP assay depends on the change in rotational correlation time of the fluorophore upon complex formation. If required to enhance this change in rotational correlation time the relative size of the NS1A component of NS1A CSPF30 or fragments thereof complexes described above can be further increased by expression as a larger fusion protein e.g. fused to maltose binding protein or by attachment to beads or microscopic particles using for example already available constructs of Tables 2 3 and 4 with either N or C terminal hexHis tags or using other affinity tags.

The crystal structure of the complex between NS1A Udorn 85 215 and the F2F3 fragment was examined to identify potential linking sites so that the C terminus of one segment of F2F3 or portion thereof would have a favorable path for linking to the N terminus of the second segment. Considerations for favorable linking geometry include the distance between termini to be linked the path the linker would need to take and linker composition and length. A common peptide linker composition used for connecting domains in engineered proteins is some combination of Gly and Ser residues allowing for conformational flexibility and solubility while remaining somewhat neutral in chemical content e.g. Gly Ser or Gly Ser Gly etc.

Constructs were designed based on the crystal structure of the influenza virus NS1A CTD protein complex with the F2F3 fragment from the human CPSF30 protein disclosed for this first time in this Disclosure. The expectation is that a single chain construct of the F2F3 binding regions observed in the crystal structure would bind more tightly to the NS1A dimer than the separate domains and might have significant antiviral activity.

The structure was examined to identify potential linking sites so that the C terminus of one segment of F2F3 or portion thereof would have a favorable path for linking to the N terminus of the second segment. Considerations for favorable linking geometry include the distance between termini to be linked the path the linker would need to take and linker composition and length. A common peptide linker composition used for connecting domains in engineered proteins is some combination of Gly and Ser residues allowing for conformational flexibility and solubility while remaining somewhat neutral in chemical content e.g. Gly Ser or Gly Ser Gly etc.

The sequence of CPSF30 F2F3 used for the specific designs is that used in the crystal structure determination but amino acid replacements can be considered. The N terminal portion might include a hexa His or other tag for convenient purification alternatively a tag might be encoded at the C terminus of the construct. Other purification tags may be preferable to oligo His owing to potential interference with the chelation of zinc ions by the F2 and F3 Zn finger segments which is required for the integrity of the three dimensional structure and for effective binding to NS1A. In all of these F2F3 sequences residue Pro92 may be substituted by Ser. The constructs involving single F3 domains one finger as opposed to F2F3 domains two fingers are potentially valuable as minimal miniature versions because the interaction between separate F2F3 chains in the dimer chains F2F3 A and F2F3 B is mediated entirely by residues in F3 and does not involve any residues from F2. The F3 domain itself or variants could be used as an antiviral drug.

Relatively few of the residues in F2 make important interactions with the NS1A protein in the dimer of dimers notable exceptions are Leu72 and Arg73 whose side chains interact extensively with NS1A. The Leu72 and Arg73 interactions could be maintained by a strategic linkage of a Leu Arg or Arg Leu peptide to Thr91 proposed N terminus of the F3 domain construct . L72 T91 distance is 14.2 R73 T91 distance is 17.6 . Possible extensions to the one finger F3 domain construct would be Leu Arg GSGSG F3 or Arg Leu GSGSG F3 see proposed constructs 5a and 5b .

Construct 1. F3 F3 Single F3 linker F3 construct tandem F3 construct abbreviated 91 116 linker 11 91 116 . Distance from F2F3 A Asp116 Ca to F2F3 B Thr91 Ca is 33.3 linker can be 10 flexible amino acids 

C terminal residue of tandem construct can be D116 or any extension up to 1121 crystal structure extends only to P117 in one copy and E118 in the other. Both N and C termini can have extensions including hexaHis and other tags for convenient purification as discussed in the text.

Construct 2. F2F3 F3 Same as previous construct except that the N terminal portion of the construct encompasses entire F2F3 segment abbreviated 60 116 linker 11 91 116 

Construct 3. F2F3 F2F3 F2F3 linker F2F3 construct tandem F2F3 construct abbreviated 60 116 linker 15 62 116 . Distance from F2F3 A Asp116 Ca to F2F3 B Gly62 Ca is 51.1 linker should be 14 flexible amino acids 

Construct 4. F3 F2F3 F3 linker F2F3 construct abbreviated 91 116 linker 15 62 116 . Distance from F2F3 A Asp116 Ca to F2F3 B Gly62 Ca is 51.1 linker should be 14 flexible amino acids.

Construct 5. XF3 F3 Extended F3 linker F3 construct. Linker 1 will link a Leu Arg or Arg Leu dipeptide to the one finger F3 domain in a mode to incorporate the important L72 and R73 side chain interactions from F2 that are otherwise missing. Linker 2 can be 10 flexible amino acids 

Each of the constructs 1 5b above and variants thereof will inhibit CPSF30 binding by NS1A and can potentially be used as lead compounds for drug development and or as antiviral drugs useful in preventing or treating influenza A infection in humans poultry e.g. chicken and other animals.

Structure based Lead Optimization using X ray Crystallography and NMR. The sample preparation and structural characterization of NS1A effector domains from multiple influenza strains allow the use of both NMR and X ray crystallography in hit validation lead compound optimization and drug discovery.

Crystallography for lead optimization. X ray analysis has historically been very important to structure based inhibitor design. Compounds identified as inhibitor hits by kinetic assays can be used to form complexes with the target protein. X ray analysis will reveal the mode of inhibitor binding and act as a basis for further inhibitor design. Crystal inhibitor complexes can also be formed by soaking inhibitors into preformed crystals or complexes may be grown by co crystallization. The latter case may be necessary if the complex triggers conformational changes. In either case diffraction data is collected on a rotating anode source processed and converted to electron density maps. The orientation and occupancy of the inhibitors will be observed and compared with binding modes predicted from virtual screening or models from earlier design cycles. In this way inhibitors analyzed in one cycle of design will feed into subsequent rounds of structural analysis and re design in the general process of structure based drug design Kuhn 2002 Scapin 2006 

Cocrystallization and Crystal soaks. Using crystallization conditions that we have already optimized for the NS1A effector domains described above cocrystallizations and crystal soaks can be carried out with lead compounds identified in our high throughput screening efforts. Trials will be carried out to crystallize NS1A effector domain lead compound complexes. Diffraction data can be collected using either home or synchrotron X ray sources and the resulting difference electron density maps and 3D structures can be used to characterize small molecule binding epitopes and bound state conformations. These data can be used screening for lead compounds either one at a time or in high throughput format lead compound validation and optimization of lead compounds using methods familiar to a person skilled in the art.

NMR for lead identification optimization. NMR is also a powerful method for validating intermolecular interactions and is used extensively in commercial pharmaceutical drug discovery efforts to identify lead compounds and their protein binding sites Shuker et al. 1996 Hajduk et al. 1997 Moore 1999a 1999b Muegge et al. 1999 Moy et al. 2001 Powers 2002 Lepre et al. 2004 Rush and Powers 2004 Mercier et al. 2006 Petros et al. 2006 . NMR chemical shift perturbations of either the protein or the ligand can be used for screening for small molecule lead compounds validating initial small molecule hits identified with htp or virtual screening assays locating the corresponding binding site in the 3D protein structure and to guide rational lead optimization. NMR methods uniquely complement crystallography studies. Strengths of NMR analysis methods include i the ability to detect even weak Kup to 500 micromolar binding interactions ii compatibility with systems that undergo structural changes upon ligand binding which may not be accommodated by a crystalline lattice iii the ability to adjust solvent conditions over a wide range and iv high sensitivity and very low sample requirements.

Using NS1A effector domain constructs that have already been shown to provide high quality HSQC spectra e.g. NMR chemical shift perturbation can be used to validate initial small molecule hits identified with high throughput htp or virtual screening assays locating the corresponding binding site in the 3D protein structure and for rational lead optimization. Hits identified in htp FP assays will be characterized by assessing perturbations in HSQC spectra for which resonance assignments will be available and interpreting these effects on the available 3D structures of NS1 effector domains. Some methods suitable for lead compound screening identification and optimization envisioned for use with our invention are summarized in C. A. Lepre J. M Moore and J. W. Peng Theory and Applications of NMR based Screening in Pharmaceutical Research Chem. Rev. 104 3641 3675 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference. The NMR infrastructure required for such work are available at most large research institutions including by not limited to Rutgers University and include 5 mm 600 and 800 MHz NMR cryoprobe systems as well as a 1 mm 600 MHz NMR equipped with an automated sample changer. The cryoprobes enable recording of high quality HSQC data using 150 microliter samples at protein concentrations as low as 10 micromolar and the 1 mm NMR probe provides high quality HSQC data on 7 microliter samples at 100 micromolar concentrations. Such NMR technologies allow NMR screening for lead compound optimization with as little as 500 nanomoles of each sample. Where appropriate the 3D structures of tightly bound small molecule lead compounds may also be determined by NMR methods if they cannot be solved by crystallographic methods. These data will be used in redesign and lead optimization as outlined for crystallographic data above.

Expressed soluble constructs of NS1A outlined in Tables 2 3 and 4 or their variants can also be used to screen for small molecule lead compounds using NMR detection of resonances of the small molecule using limits described by but not limited to C. A. Lepre J. M Moore and J. W. Peng Theory and Applications of NMR based Screening in Pharmaceutical Research Chem. Rev. 104 3641 3675 2004 .

Where appropriate the 3D structures of tightly bound small molecule lead compounds may also be determined by NMR methods if they cannot be solved by crystallographic methods. These data will be used in redesign and lead optimization using synthetic chemistry as outlined for crystallographic data above.

Antiviral assays. Having identified inhibitors of the interaction between NS1A and CPSF30 the inhibitors would be tested for their ability to inhibit influenza A virus replication in tissue culture studies. Plaque reduction assays in MDCK cells will be used to assay compounds for their ability to inhibit influenza A virus replication Twu et al. 2006 . Monolayers of MDCK cells will be infected with approximately 100 plaque forming units PFU of influenza A Udorn 72 virus and after virus adsorption the cells will be overlaid with agar containing a concentration of a compound ranging from 0.001 micrograms ml to 10 micrograms ml. Plaques will be counted in duplicate plates and compared to the number of plaques in controls not exposed to the chemical. In parallel cytotoxicity evaluations of lead compounds would be carried out on MDCK cells using the Roche reagent WST 1 Berridge et al. 2005 . The rate of WST 1 cleavage by mitochondrial dehydrogenases yielding a product with absorbance at 450 nm correlates with the number of viable cells. These assays will be carried out in 96 well tissue culture plates and cell viability will be assayed by determining absorbance at 450 nm using an ELISA plate reader. Once the most promising lead compounds with low cytotoxicity in both MDCK and human A549 cells have been identified we will determine the effect of several concentrations of the compounds on the rate and extent of virus replication during multiple cycle growth in MDCK cells. The compounds with the greatest inhibitory activity at the lowest concentrations will be used for subsequent studies in a suitable animal model ferrets .

Applications of NS1A CPSF30 Inhibitors. These inhibitors can be developed into antiviral drugs that will be effective in the control of influenza virus epidemics and pandemics in humans. Because there is the potential for such epidemics to be man made i.e. using influenza A virus as a bioterrorist weapon such antivirals would also be crucial in this situation. Influenza antiviral drugs will also be important for the control of influenza A infections in commercial poultry stocks such as chickens.

Creating Attenuated Influenza Virus Strains Suitable for Avian and Human Influenza Vaccine Development. The structural information disclosed here can be combined with site directed mutagenesis data for NS1A to engineer attenuated influenza A virus strains suitable for use as live attenuated vaccines in humans and livestock. Multiple weakly attenuating mutations will be created in the CPSF30 and dsRNA binding epitopes to generate NS1 proteins with reduced binding affinity in vitro. The effects of these mutations on the structural integrity of NS1A variants can be assessed with HSQC NMR data and or crystallization and X ray crystallography. These data will then be used to engineer viral strains of influenza A with various degrees of attenuation. These viral strains will be engineered to contain multiple base changes to minimize the potential of the virus to revert to virulence. Such influenza A viruses would be attenuated in normal cells and in humans and animals but would not be attenuated in cells lacking interferon genes e.g. cell culture Vero cells thereby enabling the production of large amounts of these attenuated viruses suitable for use as a live virus vaccine.

Methods for development of attenuated flu vaccines are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 737 742 Novel Compositions and Vaccines Against Influenza and Influenza B Infections and PTC Patent Application Filed Nov. 17 2006 Novel Compositions and Vaccines Against Influenza and Influenza B Infections relevant portions and tables incorporated herein by reference relevant portions incorporated herein by reference.

A person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that because of the degeneracy of the genetic code a large number of nucleic acid sequences can be generated in accordance with this invention. The production of the viruses of the instant invention or the respective recombinant NS1A protein or respective NS1B protein comprising said amino acid sequences can be achieved by recombinant DNA technology. Nucleic acid sequences encoding the amino acid sequences of the instant invention can be produced using methods well known in the art including for example chemical synthesis PCR and site directed mutagenesis.

The instant invention provides recombinant influenza A virus comprising the amino acid sequences which are at least 70 identical but less than 100 identical either to dsRNA binding domains of NS1A. These viruses may be generated for example by reverse genetic system whereby influenza virus can be generated by transfection of multiple DNAs without a helper virus. This technique was described in Fodor et al. 1999. Essentially in that study the technique involved transfecting into a host cell a combination of plasmids containing cDNAs for the viral RNA segments including NS1 proteins proteins of viral RNA dependent polymerase complex PB1 PB2 and PA and nucleoprotein. Further it is possible to transfect host cells such as for example 293 cells or Vero cells with a plasmid encoding a recombinant NS1A protein for rescuing influenza A viral phenotype containing the appropriate amino acid sequence of the instant invention. The resulting viruses may be used for creation of vaccines as described below.

In another embodiment the virus can be propagated in suitable host such as for example chicken eggs without a need for transforming a host cell with multiple plasmids. In this embodiment essentially clinical isolates of human influenza virus are taken from infected patients and are reassorted in embryonated chicken eggs with laboratory adapted master strains of high growth donor viruses.

To prepare the recombinant NS1A viruses for different purposes including without limitations the use of the virus as a vaccine or a part thereof each of these mutations may be carried out individually on constructs of NS 1A suitable for biochemical characterization possibly including but not limited to the constructs outlined in Tables 3 and 4. Other variants of NS1A or affinity tags e.g. FLAG tags may also be used. These proteins may be purified and characterized with respect to structural integrity by comparing the circular dichroism and or NMR spectrum and or X ray crystal structures with those of the corresponding wild type NS1 construct. The several constructs may then be assayed for dsRNA binding as described elsewhere Chien et al. 2004 or using other methods of assessing protein dsRNA binding affinities commonly used for such studies such as for example sedimentation equilibrium gel electrophoresis or gel filtration chromatography. These data will be used to assess the effect of single site mutants at these sites revealed by the structural models to be important for dsRNA recognition. Further sets of double triple and quadruple mutants of residues in the CPSF30 binding epitope tetramer interface dsRNA binding epitope and combinations thereof would also be generated in these NS1A constructs and assessed for structural integrity and binding activities in vitro. This experimental design will allow a person of the ordinary skill in the art to identify mutant forms of NS1A and NS1A varients with minimal structural disruption but with reduced CPSF30 and or dsRNA binding affinity.

The invention encompasses methods of selecting viruses which have the desired phenotype i.e. viruses which have low or no dsRNA binding activity whether obtained from natural variants spontaneous variants i.e. variants which evolve during virus propagation mutagenized natural variants reassortants and or genetically engineered viruses. Such viruses can be best screened in differential growth assays that compare growth in host systems which have attenuated and normal immune response to influenza A viruses. Viruses which demonstrate better growth in the hosts having the attenuated response versus the normal response are selected preferably viruses which grow to titers at least one log greater in the host systems with the attenuated response as compared to the host system with the normal response are selected.

The present invention also encompasses methods of growing and isolating mutated viruses having altered dsRNA binding activity in cells and cell lines which naturally exhibit an attenuated response to viral infections as compared to wild type cells. In a particular preferred embodiment the present invention relates to methods of growing the viruses of the instant invention in Vero cells.

It is contemplated that any embodiment discussed in this specification can be implemented with respect to any method kit reagent or composition of the invention and vice versa. Furthermore compositions of the invention can be used to achieve methods of the invention.

It will be understood that particular embodiments described herein are shown by way of illustration and not as limitations of the invention. The principal features of this invention can be employed in various embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation numerous equivalents to the specific procedures described herein. Such equivalents are considered to be within the scope of this invention and are covered by the claims.

All publications and patent applications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the level of skill of those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The use of the word a or an when used in conjunction with the term comprising in the claims and or the specification may mean one but it is also consistent with the meaning of one or more at least one and one or more than one. The use of the term or in the claims is used to mean and or unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are mutually exclusive although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and and or. Throughout this application the term about is used to indicate that a value includes the inherent variation of error for the device the method being employed to determine the value or the variation that exists among the study subjects.

As used in this specification and claim s the words comprising and any form of comprising such as comprise and comprises having and any form of having such as have and has including and any form of including such as includes and include or containing and any form of containing such as contains and contain are inclusive or open ended and do not exclude additional unrecited elements or method steps.

The term or combinations thereof as used herein refers to all permutations and combinations of the listed items preceding the term. For example A B C or combinations thereof is intended to include at least one of A B C AB AC BC or ABC and if order is important in a particular context also BA CA CB CBA BCA ACB BAC or CAB. Continuing with this example expressly included are combinations that contain repeats of one or more item or term such as BB AAA AB BBC AAABCCCC CBBAAA CABABB and so forth. The skilled artisan will understand that typically there is no limit on the number of items or terms in any combination unless otherwise apparent from the context.

All of the compositions and or methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

