---

title: High-yield entangled single photon source
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to utilizing photons at respective idler and signal frequencies to facilitate generation of photons at a pump frequency. A strong pump field can be applied at the ωand the ωfrequencies, with the generated idler and signal pulses being utilized to generate a photon pair at the ωfrequency. Further, the idler pump power can be increased relative to the signal pump power such that the pump power P>pump power P. Such reversed operation (e.g., ω+ω→ω+ω) can minimize and/or negate Raman scattering effects. By complying with an energy conservation requirement, the ωand ωphotons interacting with the material through the four-wave mixing process facilitates the entanglement of the ωand ωphotons. The ωand ωphotons can be respectively formed in different length waveguides with a delay utilized to facilitate common timing between the ωand ωphotons.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465274&OS=09465274&RS=09465274
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09465274
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140417
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 818 363 filed on May 1 2013 entitled HIGH YIELD ENTANGLED PHOTO SOURCE AND QUANTUM ONE TIME PAD the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

A number of technologies such as quantum communication quantum calculation etc. rely on a source of photon pairs e.g. an entangled photon pair comprising an idler photon and a signal photon which can facilitate confirmation that a received photon pair is valid. Conventional approaches to providing the photon pairs include parametric down conversion PDC which can utilize bulk optics and also four wave mixing FWM which can utilize fiber optics. A detriment of PDC is that the direction of the photon pair is completely random hence a pair of photons can be symmetrically opposite but no prediction can be made with regard to the photon direction in either of the positive direction of a first photon or a negative direction of a second photon. Accordingly large bulk optic lenses are utilized to facilitate capturing as many photons as possible across the range of potential directions while the collected number of photons is limited by the acceptance angle of the device receiving the photons.

The problem of photon directionality can be addressed by FWM in a waveguide based system but owing to such effects as Raman scattering a conventional approach of generating and based upon a pulse comprising a pair of pumped photons and can lead to uncertainty regarding whether the and photons have been formed and received as expected.

For instance with reference to an idler photon in idler pulse and a signal photon in signal pulse are generated by a pair of pump photons and in pump pulses and where for degenerate FWM and can have a common frequency . As shown in the frequency of the respective pulses are . In an aspect the photon pairs can be generated at frequencies and by inserting a strong field at the pump frequencies hence acts doubly as and . Each pair of pump photons and are effectively destroyed in a pump pulse during the energy exchange occurring between the destroyed pump photons and and the newly created and . Accordingly per a spontaneous FWM process the pumped pair and disappear and the idler signal pair and arise or the idler signal pair and disappear and the pumped pair and arise.

where nonlinearity coefficient of a fiber P pump power at P pump power at k phase propagation constant L fiber length idler photon wavelength pump photon frequencies spectral bandwidth of pump pulses.

Further for a high efficiency of operation in generating photons at and there is a requirement for two conditions to be satisfied a energy conservation and b momentum of conservation also referred to as phase matching . Energy conservation indicates that a photon pair will always exist hence if two existing photons are destroyed at the pump then two new photons will be formed one idler photon in the idler pulse and one signal photon in the signal pulse per Equation 2 2 0 Eqn. 2

where k k and kare the respective propagation constants for the respective and for a forward mixing gain while the fiber nonlinearity in conjunction with the pump power P can provide a measure of the effect of the fiber nonlinearity for a given pump power.

Theoretically the total photon distribution between and should be preserved. Unfortunately various deleterious effects can affect generation and or propagation of the various photons such an effect being Raman scattering which can scatter photons into different wavelengths e.g. by a non linear mechanism. presents a Raman scattering effect and an associated frequency and bandwidth offsets for photons generated by an oscillator. The Raman gain shape is presented along with theoretical gain shapes for the photon and for the photon each gain shape has been normalized individually. In an aspect the idler photon and signal photon frequencies are determined by the propagation constants and the nonlinearity of the waveguide per Eqn. 3. It is to be noted that the Raman scattering only occurs on the idler side of the frequency range in optical fibers with a peak generation of about 13 THz which is the resonant frequency between molecular heat and molecular vibration of a waveguide molecular lattice. In other words fiber material only dissipates energy from the optical waves to the heat bath converting high energy high frequency photons to lower energy lower frequency photons instead of adding energy to the optical wave. Which process dominates depends on material characteristics.

In a waveguide e.g. a fiber carrying a photon Raman scattering can add an uncorrelated photon at which confuses the photon number entanglement between and . Ideally a transference of energy between the light field e.g. the photon and the waveguide molecules is a lossless operation. However owing to each waveguide molecule being connected to adjacent molecules some of the transferred energy can be lost as heat radiation dissipating throughout the waveguide structure as the molecular lattice vibrates under the stimulation of the impinging photon. The loss of energy to the molecular lattice leads to the overall energy no longer being available to form a photon s of the same optical equivalent e.g. wavelength frequency etc. as that of the impinging photon any new photon which is formed in the waveguide will re enter the light field but with an energy smaller than that of the impinging photon. This Raman process is separate from the desired four wave mixing process. The consequence of the addition of a photon on the idler frequency via the Raman process is that the number of photons between the idler and that of the signal may differ. To facilitate measurement of the photon s and the photon s the respective photons can be split and directed to two separate optical waveguide paths e.g. an idler leg and a signal leg. A count can be taken on each of the legs to determine the number of photon s vs. the number of photon s with theoretically the entangled photons generating the same number of photons on both legs. However per the above the number of photons on the idler leg can be greater than the number of photons on the signal leg. The correlation of photons on each leg of a conventional system is no longer 100 pure owing to the Raman scattering contamination.

As shown in as the rate of generation of the various photons is increased so the number of unwanted photons being generated as a function of Raman scattering is also increased. Plot indicates an increase in the rate of entangled photon generation count per second cps as the pump input power is increased from about 0.2 mW to about 1.0 mW. However as the pump input power is increased there is a corresponding increase in the number of unwanted photons formed per plot where plot is a plot of pump input power vs. coincidence accident ratio plotted in log scale . Coincidence indicates that the number of photons on the idler leg and the signal leg are equal e.g. for each idler photon there is a corresponding signal photon. Accident indicates the number of photons which are different between the idler leg and signal leg e.g. there may be X idler photons vs. Y signal photons where X Y. At about 0.2 mW plot indicates a coincidence accident ratio of between about 1 in 1000 and about 1 in 10 000. At about 1 mW plot indicates the coincidence accident ratio has reduced to about 1 in 10 a high degree of Raman scattering contamination is occurring. Hence while increasing the pump input power per Eqn. 1 where ris squarely proportional to the pump power P increases the rate at which the entangled photons are formed the increased pump input power also results in an increase in the number of unwanted electrons formed. Furthermore as shown in the Raman spectrum has such a broad spectrum that it can be difficult to avoid when using a conventional FWM degenerate pumping approach.

Hence for a system operating based upon detection of a co formed photon pairing comprising of a and the effects of a the shifting of the photon and or b generation of further photons from an originating photon can lead to an erroneous determination that a received pair of photons and are actually correlated e.g. are the original entangled pair . While the FWM mechanism is elastic in terms of energy conservation Raman scattering fails to conserve the energy leading to breakage of the photon entanglement which can be detrimental to many quantum based operations. For example numerous quantum information science applications requires true single photon source. Having a perfect correlation between the number of photons at the idler and the signal frequencies one can gate the output of the signal frequency while counting the photons at the idler frequency. Only when the counted number of photons at the idler frequency is one the gate at the signal frequency opens letting the signal photon out. This is one way of realizing a true single photon source using a perfectly entangled photon pair source. Especially quantum communication strictly requires only one photon at a time. Otherwise an eavesdropper can tap the extra photon and obtain the information while being unnoticed.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to formation of entangled photons. In an exemplary embodiment a method is presented the method comprising forming an idler photon wherein the idler photon has a first resonant frequency and forming a signal photon wherein the signal photon has a second resonant frequency. The method further comprising combining the idler photon and the signal photon to form a pair of pump photons wherein the pump photons have a third resonant frequency. In an embodiment the first resonant frequency can be less than the third resonant frequency and the third resonant frequency can be less than the second resonant frequency.

Another exemplary embodiment presents a system comprising an idler photon having a first resonant frequency and a signal photon having a second resonant frequency. The system further comprising a waveguide configured to interact with the idler photon and the signal photon to form a pair of pump photons wherein the pump photons have a third resonant frequency. In an embodiment the first resonant frequency can be less than the third resonant frequency and the third resonant frequency can be less than the second resonant frequency.

A further exemplary embodiment for forming photon pairs is presented wherein the embodiment is a system comprising an oscillator configured to generate a first photon and a second photon wherein the first photon and the second photon can be entangled. The system can further comprise a first waveguide configured to convey the first photon wherein the first waveguide has a first length the first photon interacting with the waveguide to facilitate a shift in a first wavelength of the first photon to a second wavelength. The system can further comprise a second waveguide configured to convey the second photon wherein the second waveguide has a second length and the second photon can interact with the waveguide to facilitate a shift in a third wavelength of the second photon to a fourth wavelength. In an embodiment the second waveguide can be shorter than the first waveguide and a time to convey the second photon through the second waveguide can be less than a time to convey the first photon through the first waveguide. The system can further comprise a delay component located at the second waveguide wherein the delay component can be configured to delay the second photon by a time of duration equal to a difference in the time to convey the second photon through the second waveguide and the time to convey the first photon through the first waveguide. The system can further comprise a multiplexer configured to recombine the first photon with the second photon to form a second pulse. The system can further comprise a third waveguide configured to convey the second pulse wherein the first photon and the second photon can interact with the third waveguide to facilitate formation of a pair of photons. In an embodiment the pair of photons can have a frequency different to a frequency of the first photon and to a frequency of the second photon.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to the formation of a photon either as a single photon or a photon pair are presented wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

In an embodiment a strong pump field can be applied at the and the frequencies with the generated idler and signal pulses being utilized to generate a photon pair at the frequency. Further the idler pump power can be increased relative to the signal pump power such that the pump power P pump power P. Such reversed operation e.g. can minimize and or negate the Raman scattering effect for a FWM based operation. By complying with the energy conservation requirement per Eqn. 2 the and photons are entangled and hence in an aspect can be indistinguishable. In another aspect e.g. to satisfy an application requirement and can be distinguishable by such techniques as polarization by wavelength based on waveguide design etc. The various waveguides presented herein can act in a nonlinear manner e.g. as a third order nonlinear process and hence operate with four lightwaves or pulses having disparate optical frequencies or wavelengths.

As shown in rather than utilizing the pumped pair of photons and to generate a pair of photons and the operation is effectively reversed whereby the and photons are pumped to form a pair of photons and . Hence while Raman scattering effects can be encountered e.g. regions and the effects can be avoided by utilizing and as the photons which are transmitted into a photonic crystal fiber PCF whereby the respective wavelengths of photons and can be selected to avoid the wavelength s at which Raman scattering can occur.

In comparison with Eqn a rate r of generation of a photon pair and p can be determined in accordance with Equation 4 

where the rate of photon pair generation ris proportional in part to the product of the two pump powers Pand P. Owing to rbeing proportional to the product of the two pump powers Pand Pthe respective pump powers Pand Pdo not have to be identical. Accordingly in an embodiment the power at Pcan be limited while the power Pcan be increased which correspondingly increases r. In a further embodiment the power at Pcan be limited while the power Pcan be increased which correspondingly increases r. In an aspect consideration may have to be given to the available pump power that can be applied to Pwhen increasing the pump power P. In an aspect the rate of generation of entangled pairs and can be increased by utilizing PCF.

In another embodiment when photons and are pumped with a respective orthogonal polarization e.g. s i photons and can be formed in an entangled state which satisfies the Bell state e.g. having the simplest possible examples of entanglement in accordance with the Bell inequality . As shown in the power Pcan be increased in orders of magnitude higher than can be achieved with conventional degenerate FWM pumping. Accordingly owing to the higher power of P in conjunction with a power P a higher gain can be applied to a pulse oscillator e.g. Ti sapphire pulsed laser compared with a gain applied to an oscillator in a conventional system per .

In an embodiment FWM is a pumped pulse operation where the pumped pulse can be ultra short e.g. about 100 femtoseconds 1 10seconds . However lasers which operate in the ultra short pulse duration range can exhibit timing jitter. For example a timing jitter of about 15 fs can be experienced when operating a laser with a mean of about 100 fs pulse duration. Hence when utilizing separate pumps at and the timing jitter can lead to a high probability that the respective photons and are not aligned in both time and space.

To overcome the jitter effect advantage can be taken of the phenomenon self frequency shifted Raman soliton which is depicted in . plot illustrates the effect of intrapulse Raman pumping according to an embodiment. As a pulse e.g. or photon based propagates down a fiber the wavelength of the pulse can be shifted to a longer wavelength as shown in plot where application of intrapulse Raman pumping can lead to a pulse shift from a lower wavelength region to a higher wavelength region . In an embodiment region can be considered a function of low power while region can be considered a function of high power.

It is to be appreciated that the various presented parameters such as pump powers waveguide nonlinearities waveguide lengths waveguide core size waveguide material s photon wavelengths photon frequencies etc. are simply example values and any suitable value can be utilized to achieve a required effect in accordance with the one or more embodiments presented herein. For example to obtain a particular wavelength s a combination of waveguide nonlinearity waveguide length and pump power can be utilized as required.

The various embodiments can be applied to any application requiring a pure signal comprising an entangled pair of photons e.g. with a high coincidence accident ratio . Furthermore generation of the pair of photons can be achieved with a high rate of efficiency. Such applications can include a quantum communication application a quantum repeater application a quantum computation a entanglement distillation application etc.

At a first pulse can be generated comprising of a first photon and a second photon. Generation of the respective photons can be by any suitable system e.g. an OPO.

At the first photon can be separated from the second photon e.g. by a splitter component to facilitate processing of the first photon separate from the second photon.

At the wavelength of the first photon can be adjusted. In an embodiment the first photon can be considered to be a signal photon. As previously described the wavelength can be adjusted by transmitting the first photon along a first waveguide of a particular length to facilitate adjustment of the wavelength of the first photon. Further if required a pump pulse can be applied to the first photon to further facilitate shifting of the first photon from a first wavelength to a second wavelength.

At the wavelength of the second photon can be adjusted. In an embodiment the second photon can be considered to be an idler photon. As previously described the wavelength can be adjusted by transmitting the second photon along a second waveguide of a particular length to facilitate adjustment of the wavelength of the second photon wherein the length of the second waveguide is different to the length of the first waveguide. For example the length of the second waveguide can be shorter than the length of the first waveguide. Further if required a pump pulse can be applied to the second photon to further facilitate shifting of the second photon from a first wavelength to a second wavelength. As previously described the pump power applied to the idler photon can be larger than the pump power applied to the signal photon.

At a timing delay can be applied to the second idler photon to compensate for the extra time it takes for the first signal photon to traverse through the first waveguide. Application of a timing delay to the second photon facilitates arrival of the second photon at a WDM at the same time as the first photon.

At the first photon and the second photon can be transmitted into a third waveguide to facilitate generation of a third photon and a fourth photon from the first and second photons. The third photon and fourth photon can have a frequency equivalent to a pump frequency.

At the third photon and fourth photon can be transmitted. Owing to the nature of energy transfer in the four wave mixing process the third photon and fourth photon are entangled in photon numbers. Furthermore owing to the avoidance of deleterious effects that can arise as a result of Raman scattering e.g. two photons formed from a single incident photon only a pair of photons the third photon and the fourth photon are transmitted across a system e.g. a quantum communication application and hence energy conservation and momentum of conservation are maintained.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

