---

title: Mobile network with software defined networking architecture
abstract: A network core with a software defined networking (“SDN”) controller is provided to control routing of traffic within the network and between the network and the traffic destination. The SDN controller is merged with existing 3Generation Partnership Project (“3GPP”) network architecture to enable service deliveries via open application programming interfaces (“APIs”) and move the network core towards an all internet protocol (“IP”), cloud based, and software driven telecom network. The SDN controller can work with, or take the place of policy and charging rules function (“PCRF”) network elements, so that policies such as quality of service and traffic management and routing can be synchronized and managed end to end.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491683&OS=09491683&RS=09491683
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09491683
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141031
---
The subject disclosure relates to interworking and convergence of policy and charging control of a mobile network with software defined networking architecture.

Widespread proliferation of wireless broadband networks offers increased quality of experience for mobile users but also renders management and maintenance of these networks a tedious and costly task. The network core which facilitates mobile management and data transfer is traditionally comprised of individual server elements with each piece of hardware performing a dedicated task. Several of the server elements perform control plane functions of managing subscription information traffic management and data routing. This routing can be complex and unique to each mobile network architecture requiring additional time to set up and test the configuration.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It is evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details and without applying to any particular networked environment or standard .

A network core with a software defined networking SDN controller is provided to control routing of traffic within the network and between the network and the traffic destination. The SDN controller is merged with existing 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP network architecture to enable service deliveries via open application programming interfaces APIs and move the network core towards an all internet protocol IP cloud based and software driven telecom network. The SDN controller can work with or take the place of policy and charging rules function PCRF network elements so that policies such as quality of service QoS and traffic management and routing can be synchronized and managed end to end.

An LTE network is a policy based traffic management architecture with a PCRF element traditionally controlling the QoS levels and other information priorities bandwidths etc. that manages IP flows that carries a particular application such as voice video messaging etc. . This policy based mechanism applies to the IP traffic between the mobile device and the packet data network gateway PGW . In an embodiment of the subject disclosure software defined networking can be used to provide routing and traffic control for packets sent from the PGW to a destination address. In some embodiments the SDN controller can also provide traffic control for packets from the mobile device to the destination in some embodiments.

The PCRF and the SDN controller can also communicate about some aspects of a particular application flow so that routing decisions both in the access network between eNodeB and PGW as well as in the backbone can be made based on the nature of the application and how that particular flow was expected to be treated based on operator policies and user subscription. For example if a higher QoS is to be applied to a traffic flow carrying voice packet the service related information such as QoS can be used by SDN controller to make decisions such as mapping and route optimizations. This will enable the entire network to be application aware with a consistent treatment of the packets.

In an embodiment some policies may be directly communicated with both PCRF and the SDN controller so a common set of policies about a particular traffic treatment can be applied. In addition in another embodiment a common charging rule or keys can be applied to the end to end traffic.

For these considerations as well as other considerations in one or more embodiments a system includes a processor and a memory that stores executable instructions that when executed by the processor facilitate performance of operations including determining service profile information associated with a mobile device based on policy information stored in a policy data store. The operations can include managing a control plane function for data received from the mobile device based on the service profile information wherein the managing the control plane function is facilitated by a software defined networking controller performing a first traffic management function on a first set of data received by a packet data network gateway device and performing a second traffic management function on a second set of data transmitted by the packet data network gateway device.

In another exemplary embodiment a system can include a processor and a memory that stores executable instructions that when executed by the processor facilitate performance of operations. The operations can include determining service profile information associated with a mobile device based on policy information stored in a policy data store. The operations can also include facilitating a control plane function for data received from the mobile device based on the service profile information wherein the facilitating the control plane function uses a policy charging and rules function element that performs a first traffic management function on a first set of data being determined to have been received by a packet data network gateway device and using a software defined networking controller performs a second traffic management function on a second set of data being determined to have been transmitted by the packet data network gateway device wherein the software defined networking controller performs the second traffic management function based on a communication received from the policy charging and rules function element.

In another example embodiment a method can comprise determining by a device comprising a processor service profile information associated with a mobile device based on policy information stored in a policy data store. The method can also comprise initiating by a policy charging and rules function network element a first traffic management function to be performed on a first set of data sent from a mobile device and determined to have been received at a packet data network gateway device wherein the first traffic management function is based on the service profile information. The method can also include facilitating by a software defined networking controller a second traffic management function to be performed on a second set of data determined to have been transmitted from the packet data network gateway device wherein the second traffic management function is based on the first traffic management function and the policy charging and rules function network element and the software defined networking controller coordinate with each other based on the service profile information.

Turning now to illustrated is a block diagram showing a mobile network architecture with a software defined networking SDN controller in accordance with various aspects described herein.

A mobile broadband network generally comprises a radio access network that facilitates communications between the mobile devices and a core network . In the case of LTE networks and other 3GPP compliant networks e.g. LTE Advanced and even non 3GPP systems such as WiMAX and CDMA2000 these networks are the radio access network which communicates directly with a mobile device and a core network that contains a series of components that provide mobile data and control management. A packet data network gateway PGW can receive packets or other data transmissions from one or more Evolved Node Bs that are the hardware that is connected to the mobile phone network that communicates directly with mobile devices. The PGW can receive packets from the eNodeB via a serving gateway SGW not shown that is provided to route and forward data packets received from the mobile devices while PGW is provided to facilitate connectivity between the mobile devices and the external packet data networks . A PCRF can be provided to perform control and management of the packets traveling in the user plane between the mobile devices and the PGW . The PCRF can apply rules and policies based on user related information and subscription material available in a policy database .

In an embodiment the SDN controller can then provide control and management of the packets or data sent from PGW to external packet network . SDN controller can receive information relating to the rules and policies associated with data transmission sent to and from the relevant mobile device from policy database and PCRF can handoff control and management of the data traffic to the SDN controller . In an embodiment if there are one or more network function virtualization NFVs in the mobility core network SDN controller can handle the control plane functions related to traffic sent to and from one or more of the NFVs . Such NFVs can include virtualized elements such as virtualized SGWs virtualized PGWs and other virtualized network elements.

In an embodiment the PCRF and the SDN controller can perform traffic management functions such as route modification for transmission routes of data sent to the external packet network and Differentiated Services Code Point DSCP mapping based on the service related information such as QoS. In an embodiment the traffic management functions performed by the PCRF or the SDN controller on a first set of data received at a PGW sent from a mobile device include routing data based on subscription information associated with profile information about the mobile device or a user account associated with the mobile device. The routing data can include classifying a packet classification and performing route optimization. In another embodiment the SDN controller can perform a second traffic management function on traffic between the PGW and the external packet network including quality of service control based at least in part on subscription information associated with profile information associated with the mobile device. The quality of service control can also be based on an application associated with the packets of data. For instance if a set of data is related to voice applications the packet can have a specified QoS defined by the policy database and SDN controller and PCRF can ensure that the packet is managed accordingly.

Turning now to illustrated is an example non limiting embodiment of a block diagram showing a mobile network architecture with an SDN controller and networking function virtualization element in accordance with various aspects described herein.

In the embodiment shown in all of the core network elements in the user plane are virtualized elements e.g. network function virtualizations in this case the packet data network gateway virtual network function . PGW VNF performs the same or similar tasks such as a regular PGW e.g. route and transmit packets from a mobile device via the eNodeB to an external packet network. but the PGW VNF is not a physical server element but resides in software or in the cloud. Accordingly SDN controller can provide the traffic management for data sent to and from the PGW VNF .

In the control plane SDN controller can provide traffic management control for packets received from the mobile device via the eNodeB at the PGW VNF and can also provide traffic management for packets forwarded on to other NFVs or the external packet network. The SDN controller can apply rules and policies based on user related information and subscription material available in a policy database .

Turning now to illustrated is an example non limiting embodiment of a block diagram showing a mobile network architecture with an SDN controller in accordance with various aspects described herein.

In the embodiment shown in all of the core network elements in the control plane are virtualized elements e.g. network function virtualizations in this case the PCRF . PCRF can be a sub instantiation of an NFV inside SDN controller and can perform traditional functions such as controlling the QoS and other information priorities bandwidths etc. that manages IP flows carrying a particular application such as voice video messaging etc. . The PCRF VNF is not a physical server element but resides in software or in the cloud. Accordingly SDN controller can provide the traffic management for data sent to and from the PGW and the mobility core network even though PGW may be a traditional non virtualized server element.

In the control plane PCRF VNF can provide traffic management control for packets received from the mobile device via the eNodeB at the PGW and can also provide traffic management for packets forwarded on to other NFVs or the external packet network. The PCRF can apply rules and policies based on user related information and subscription material available in a policy database .

In an embodiment the PCRF VNF and the SDN controller can perform traffic management functions such as route modification for transmission routes of data sent to the external packet network and Differentiated Services Code Point DSCP mapping based on the service related information such as the predetermined QoS levels per user application. In an embodiment the traffic management functions performed by the PCRF VNF or the SDN controller on a first set of data received at a PGW sent from a mobile device include routing data based on subscription information associated with profile information about the mobile device or a user account associated with the mobile device.

The routing data can include classifying a packet classification and performing route optimization. In another embodiment the PCRF VNF can perform a second traffic management function on traffic between the PGW and the external packet network including performing quality of service control based at least in part on subscription information associated with profile information associated with the mobile device. The quality of service control can also be based on an application associated with the packets of data. For instance if a set of data is related to voice applications the packet can have a specified QoS defined by the policy database and PCRF VNF can ensure that the QoS level is maintained by the PGW .

Turning now to illustrated is a block diagram showing a mobile network architecture with an SDN controller that provides data traffic management for mobile devices in accordance with various aspects described herein.

In the embodiment shown in the user plane network element in the virtual mobility core network is a virtualized PGW VNF . PGW VNF performs the same or similar tasks such as a regular PGW e.g. route and transmit packets from one or more of mobile devices and via the eNodeB to an external packet network. but the PGW VNF is not a physical server element but resides in software or in the cloud. Accordingly SDN controller can provide the traffic management for data sent to and from the PGW VNF .

In the control plane SDN controller can provide traffic management control for packets received from mobile devices and and apply different QoS levels e.g. QoS or QoS based on the mobile device from which the packets originated subscription information associated with mobile devices and and or applications that are being run by mobile devices and . The SDN controller can also provide traffic management for packets forwarded on to other NFVs or the external packet network. The SDN controller can apply rules and policies based on user related information and subscription material available in a policy database .

In an embodiment the SDN controller can perform traffic management functions such as route modification for transmission routes of data sent to the external packet network and DSCP mapping based on the service related information. In an embodiment the traffic management functions performed by the SDN controller on a first set of data received at a PGW VNF sent from mobile device and or can include routing data based on subscription information associated with profile information about the mobile devices or a user account associated with the mobile devices.

The routing data can include classifying a packet classification and performing route optimization. In another embodiment the SDN controller can perform a second traffic management function on traffic between the PGW VNF and the external packet network including quality of service control based at least in part on subscription information associated with profile information associated with the mobile device. The quality of service control can also be based on an application associated with the packets of data. For instance if a set of data is related to voice applications the packet can have a specified QoS defined by the policy database e.g. QoS or QoS and SDN controller can ensure that the packet is managed accordingly.

Turning now to illustrated is of a block diagram showing a mobile network architecture with an SDN controller with a virtualized PGW VNF that provides data traffic management for mobile devices in accordance with various aspects described herein.

In the embodiment shown in the control plane network element in the mobility core network is a virtualized PCRF VNF . PCRF VNF performs the same or similar tasks such as a regular PCRF e.g. controlling the QoS and other information that manages IP flows that carries a particular application .

In the control plane PCRF VNF can provide traffic management control for packets received from mobile devices and via eNodeB and apply different QoS levels e.g. QoS or QoS based on the mobile device from which the packets originated subscription information associated with mobile devices and and or applications that the packets are associated with. The PCRF VNF can also provide traffic management for packets forwarded on to other NFVs or the external packet network. The PCRF VNF can apply rules and policies based on user related information and subscription material available in a policy database .

In an embodiment the PCRF VNF can perform traffic management functions such as route modification for transmission routes of data sent to the external packet network and DSCP mapping based on the service related information. In an embodiment the traffic management functions performed by the PCRF VNF on a first set of data received at a PGW sent from mobile device and or can include routing data based on subscription information associated with profile information about the mobile devices or a user account associated with the mobile devices.

The routing data can include classifying a packet classification and performing route optimization. In another embodiment the PCRF VNF can perform a second traffic management function on traffic between the PGW and the external packet network including quality of service control based at least in part on subscription information associated with profile information associated with the mobile device. The quality of service control can also be based on an application associated with the packets of data. For instance if a set of data is related to voice applications the packet can have a specified QoS defined by the policy database e.g. QoS or QoS and PCRF VNF can ensure that the packet is managed accordingly.

Turning now to illustrated is a block diagram showing a cloud based mobility core network with a virtual PCRF in accordance with various aspects described herein. An eNodeB can communicate with a cloud based mobility core network that has virtualized network elements such as MME VNF Policy database SGW VNF and PGW VNG . The virtual PCRF manages the control plane function for all communications sent between the eNodeB and the virtualized network elements and .

At the method can include facilitating by a software defined networking controller a second traffic management function to be performed on a second set of data determined to have been transmitted from the packet data network gateway device wherein the second traffic management function is based on the first traffic management function and the policy charging and rules function network element and the software defined networking controller coordinate with each other based on the service profile information e.g. by SDN controller or .

At the method can comprise facilitating the control plane function via a software defined networking controller performing a second traffic management function on a second set of data transmitted by the packet data network gateway device wherein the software defined networking controller performs the second traffic management function based on a communication received from the policy charging and rules function element.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with various aspects described herein. For example in some embodiments the computer can be or be included within the radio repeater system disclosed in any of the previous systems and or .

In order to provide additional context for various embodiments described herein and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various embodiments of the embodiment described herein can be implemented. While the embodiments have been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments can be also implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The terms first second third and so forth as used in the claims unless otherwise clear by context is for clarity only and doesn t otherwise indicate or imply any order in time. For instance a first determination a second determination and a third determination does not indicate or imply that the first determination is to be made before the second determination or vice versa etc.

The illustrated embodiments of the embodiments herein can be also practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data.

Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. In this regard the terms tangible or non transitory herein as applied to storage memory or computer readable media are to be understood to exclude only propagating transitory signals per se as modifiers and do not relinquish rights to all standard storage memory or computer readable media that are not only propagating transitory signals per se.

Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various embodiments of the aspects described herein includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the embodiments described herein.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a hard disk drive HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods described herein.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . The systems and methods described herein can be implemented utilizing various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that can be coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a universal serial bus USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer can be connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless AP disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or can be connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device can be connected to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer can be operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This can include Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi and BLUETOOTH wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi can allow connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n ac etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which can use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10 BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

In an embodiment of the subject application the computer can provide the environment and or setting in which one or more of the core mobility networks disclosed in can be operated from. For instance the virtual PCRFs and SDN controllers disclosed herein can be applications stored in hard drive and executed by processing unit .

The connection of the MS to the evolved packet core EPC network is subsequent to an authentication for example a SIM based authentication between the MS and the evolved packet core EPC network. In one aspect the MME provides authentication of the MS by interacting with the HSS . The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

As an example the eNB can host a PHYsical PHY Medium Access Control MAC Radio Link Control RLC and Packet Data Control Protocol PDCP layers that include the functionality of user plane header compression and encryption. In addition the eNB can implement at least in part Radio Resource Control RRC functionality e.g. radio resource management admission control scheduling cell information broadcast etc. . The eNB can be coupled to a serving gateway SGW that facilitates routing of user data packets and serves as a local mobility anchor for data bearers when the MS moves between eNBs. In addition the SGW can act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies GPRS UMTS etc. . When MS is in an idle state the SGW terminates a downlink DL data path and triggers paging when DL data arrives for the MS . Further the SGW can perform various administrative functions in the visited network such as collecting information for charging and lawful interception.

In one aspect the SGW can be coupled to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW that provides connectivity between the MS and external packet data networks such as IP service s network s . Moreover the PDN GW is a point of exit and entry of traffic for the MS . It is noted that the MS can have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PDN GW not shown for accessing multiple PDNs.

The PDN GW performs IP address allocation for the MS as well as QoS enforcement and implements flow based charging according to rules from a Policy Control and Charging Rules Function PCRF . The PCRF can facilitate policy control decision making and control flow based charging functionalities in a Policy Control Enforcement Function PCEF which resides in the PDN GW . The PCRF can store data e.g. QoS class identifier and or bit rates that facilitates QoS authorization of data flows within the PCEF. In one aspect the PDN GW can facilitate filtering of downlink user IP packets into the different QoS based bearers and perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful interception and packet screening. Further the PDN GW acts as the anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies such as WiMAX and 3GPP2 CDMA 1X and EvDO . Although a LTE network architecture is described and illustrated herein it is noted that most any communication network architecture can be utilized to implement the disclosed embodiments.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed subject matter also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory by way of illustration and not limitation volatile memory see below non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Moreover it will be noted that the disclosed subject matter can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone watch tablet computers netbook computers . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The embodiments described herein can employ artificial intelligence AI to facilitate automating one or more features described herein. The embodiments e.g. in connection with automatically identifying acquired cell sites that provide a maximum value benefit after addition to an existing communication network can employ various AI based schemes for carrying out various embodiments thereof. Moreover the classifier can be employed to determine a ranking or priority of the each cell site of the acquired network. A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 . . . xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated one or more of the embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing UE behavior operator preferences historical information receiving extrinsic information . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria which of the acquired cell sites will benefit a maximum number of subscribers and or which of the acquired cell sites will add minimum value to the existing communication network coverage etc.

As used in this application in some embodiments the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to or include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration and not limitation both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. While various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs. Rather use of the word example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms such as user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station access terminal terminal handset mobile device and or terms representing similar terminology can refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably herein and with reference to the related drawings.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout unless context warrants particular distinctions among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based at least on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As employed herein the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

What has been described above includes mere examples of various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing these examples but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present embodiments are possible. Accordingly the embodiments disclosed and or claimed herein are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

