---

title: Protecting sensitive web transactions using a communication channel associated with a user
abstract: A security device may receive, from a client device, a request associated with a server device. The security device may determine a communication channel and contact information for validating the request. The security device may provide validation information via the communication channel using the contact information. The security device may receive a validation response from the client device, and may determine whether the validation response is valid. The security device may selectively perform a first action or a second action based on determining whether the validation response is valid. The first action may be performed based on determining that the validation response is valid, and may include providing a validation indicator, with the request, to the server device. The second action may be performed based on determining that the validation response is not valid, and may include providing an invalidation indicator, with the request, to the server device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112834&OS=09112834&RS=09112834
owner: Juniper Networks, Inc.
number: 09112834
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140102
---
A web browser running on a client device may become compromised by a malicious attack such as a man in the browser attack. A man in the browser attack may take advantage of vulnerabilities in the web browser s security to modify web pages modify transaction content or insert transactions using the identity of the user. A man in the browser attack may be difficult to detect by a user of the web browser or a host server with which the client device communicates. A hacker may use a man in the browser attack to capture information to harm the user such as by learning the user s credit card information and using the credit card information to make unauthorized purchases learning the user s banking information and using the banking information to withdraw funds or the like.

According to some possible implementations a device may include one or more processors configured to receive from a client device a request associated with a server device determine a communication channel for validating the request determine contact information for contacting a user associated with the request via the communication channel provide validation information via the communication channel using the contact information receive a validation response from the client device determine based on the validation information and the validation response whether the validation response is valid selectively perform a first action or a second action based on determining whether the validation response is valid the first action being performed based on determining that the validation response is valid the first action including providing a validation indicator with the request to the server device the validation indicator instructing the server device to respond to the request and the second action being performed based on determining that the validation response is not valid the second action including providing an invalidation indicator with the request to the server device the invalidation indicator instructing the server device to not respond to the request.

According to some possible implementations a computer readable medium may store one or more instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to receive from a client device a request associated with a user and intended for a server device the request being sent via a browser of the client device determine a message type for validating the request determine contact information for contacting the user based on the message type provide validation information via the message type and using the contact information receive a validation response from the client device determine based on the validation information and the validation response whether the validation response is valid selectively perform a first action or a second action based on determining whether the validation response is valid the first action being performed based on determining that the validation response is valid the first action including providing a validation indicator with the request to the server device the validation indicator instructing the server device to respond to the request and the second action being performed based on determining that the validation response is not valid the second action including providing an invalidation indicator with the request to the server device the invalidation indicator instructing the server device to not respond to the request.

According to some possible implementations a method may include receiving by one or more security devices and from a client device a request for a resource determining by the one or more security devices a communication channel for validating the request determining by the one or more security devices contact information for contacting a user associated with the request via the communication channel providing by the one or more security devices validation information via the communication channel using the contact information receiving by the one or more security devices a validation response determining by the one or more security devices and based on the validation information and the validation response whether the validation response is valid selectively performing by the one or more security devices a first action or a second action based on determining whether the validation response is valid the first action being performed based on determining that the validation response is valid the first action including providing a validation indicator with the request to the server device the validation indicator instructing the server device to provide the resource to the client device and the second action being performed based on determining that the validation response is not valid the second action including providing an invalidation indicator with the request to the server device the invalidation indicator instructing the server device to not provide the resource to the client device.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A user may use a web browser on a client device to interact with a webpage hosted by a server device. The client device and the server device may exchange messages based on the user interaction with the webpage. In some cases the browser may be compromised by a malicious attack such as a man in the browser attack. A man in the browser attack or another malicious attack may cause the client device and the server device to exchange messages using the identity of the user e.g. in a user s browser session without the user s knowledge or permission. A hacker may use such an attack to gain access to sensitive user information e.g. banking information credit card information etc. or to perform unauthorized transactions e.g. withdrawing money from a bank account . The server device may not be aware of such an attack because the attack issues requests in the user s browser during the user s browser session with the server device. Thus the server device may treat the messages and or transactions as valid and authorized. Implementations described herein may utilize a security device to protect against such attacks by validating a user using a communication channel other than a potentially compromised web browser.

The security device may receive the user s contact information e.g. the user s phone number from the server device and may provide validation information to the user based on the contact information. For example and as shown the security device may receive a user s phone number from the server device and may provide a validation code to the user s phone via a text message. Furthermore the security device may provide a validation prompt to the client device which may cause the client device to display a validation prompt for inputting the validation code.

As shown in the client device may provide the validation prompt via the browser and the user may input a validation response using the validation prompt. The security device may receive the validation prompt and may determine whether the validation response is valid or invalid. If the validation response is invalid e.g. a validation code input by the user does not match a validation code provided to the user s phone then the security device may drop the request may send new validation information e.g. to the user s phone and or via a different communication channel or may take another protective action. If the validation response is valid e.g. a validation code input by the user matches a validation code provided to the user s phone then the security device may provide the request and a validation indicator associated with the request to the server device.

The security device may store the initial request and may provide the validation indicator to the server device in a header of the request. In this way the security device handles validation and protection of the server device. The validation indicator may indicate that the client device has been validated. Based on receiving the validation indicator the server device may respond to the request e.g. by sending a response to the client device by performing a transaction requested by the client device etc. . In this way a user may be protected from malicious attacks because the server device may only respond to requests that have been validated and a malicious attacker may not have access to the communication channel via which the validation information is sent.

Client device may include one or more devices capable of receiving and or providing information over a network e.g. network and or capable of generating storing and or processing information received and or provided over the network. For example client device may include a computing device such as a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a mobile phone e.g. a smart phone a radiotelephone etc. or a similar device. Client device may receive information from and or provide information to server device e.g. via network and or security device . In some implementations client device may include a browser used to interact with server device such as by sending requests e.g. HTTP requests to server device and or receiving responses e.g. HTTP responses from server device . In some implementations requests from client device may be processed by security device before being sent to server device .

Server device may include one or more devices capable of receiving and or providing information over a network e.g. network and or capable of generating storing and or processing information received and or provided over the network. For example server device may include a computing device such as a server e.g. an application server a content server a host server a web server etc. or a similar device. Server device may receive information from and or provide information to client device e.g. via network and or security device . Server device may respond to requests e.g. requests for resources transaction requests etc. received from client device . In some implementations responses from server device may be processed by security device before being sent to client device .

Security device may include one or more devices capable of processing and or transferring traffic between client device and server device . For example security device may include a network device such as a reverse proxy a server e.g. a proxy server a traffic transfer device a gateway a firewall a router a bridge a hub a switch a load balancer or the like. Security device may be used in connection with a single server device or a group of server devices e.g. a data center a private network etc. . Communications may be routed through security device to reach the group of server devices . For example security device may be positioned within a network as a gateway to a private network that includes the group of server devices . Additionally or alternatively communications from client device may be encoded such that the communications are routed to security device before being routed to server device .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a wireless local area network WLAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The number of devices and networks shown in is provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment .

Bus may include a component that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit a microprocessor and or a processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface or the like.

Device may perform one or more processes described herein. Device may perform these processes in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in .

As shown in process may include receiving from a client device a request associated with a server device block . For example security device may receive a request from client device . The request may include an HTTP request generated using a web browser. Additionally or alternatively the request may include for example a request for a resource e.g. a resource accessible by server device such as a webpage stored information etc. a request for an action and or a transaction to be performed e.g. a request for server device to pay a bill a request to transfer funds to or from a bank account a request to purchase an item etc. or the like. The request may be intended for server device . For example security device may receive a request from client device that identifies a server device for responding to the request.

As further shown in process may include determining to validate the request block . For example security device may determine to validate the request. In some implementations security device may determine to validate the request based on the contents of the request based on a client device from which the request is received based on a server device for which the request is destined based on a user associated with the request based on a webpage associated with the request e.g. a webpage to which a user is requesting access or the like.

Additionally or alternatively security device may provide the request to server device and server device may determine to validate the request e.g. based on contents client device server device a user a webpage etc. . Based on determining to validate the request server device may provide to security device information indicating that the request is to be validated e.g. a validation request indicator . For example server device may provide a response to security device with a validation request indicator in the header in the body etc. of the response. In some implementations the response from server device may include a response to the request from client device and the response may be stored by security device until client device is validated. Once security device validates client device e.g. a user associated with client device then security device may provide the response to client device .

As further shown in process may include determining a communication channel and contact information to be used to contact a user associated with the client device block . For example security device may determine information identifying a communication channel associated with a user of client device and information identifying contact information for the user. In some implementations security device may receive the information from server device . Additionally or alternatively security device may retrieve the information from a memory accessible by security device . Additionally or alternatively security device may access the information using an application programming interface via which security device can request the information and server device can provide the requested information.

Security device may determine the communication channel and the contact information based on a user associated with client device in some implementations. For example a user may provide login information via client device to log into a website hosted by server device . The login information may be associated with one or more communication channels for contacting the user and or may be associated with contact information for contacting the user e.g. using one or more different communication channels .

A communication channel may include a message type to be used to contact the user. For example a communication channel may include a text message e.g. a short message service SMS text message a multimedia messaging service MMS text message etc. a voice message an email message an instant message a chat message a social media message or the like. Contact information may include information that allows security device to contact the user via the communication channel e.g. by identifying an endpoint for a message . For example contact information may include a phone number e.g. for a text message a voice message etc. an email address e.g. for an email message a user name e.g. for an instant message a chat message a social media message etc. or the like.

In some implementations security device may determine a communication channel based on available contact information for a user. For example if security device has access to a user s email address but not a user s phone number then security device may determine to provide validation information via an email message rather than a text message or a voice message. When multiple communication channels are available security device may determine a communication channel based on a stored preference a type of request e.g. a login request a transaction request etc. a sensitivity level of the request e.g. a type of information requested an indication from server device e.g. based on code stored on server device or the like. Additionally or alternatively security device may randomly determine the communication channel to make evasion by an attacker more difficult. For example security device may receive information identifying a set of available communication channels and or contact information associated with those channels and may randomly select a communication channel of the set of available communication channels to be used for validation.

Security device may determine contact information based on a selected communication channel in some implementations. For example if security device determines to provide validation information via a text message or a voice message then security device may determine a phone number for contacting the user. As another example if security device selects a particular social media service for providing the validation information then security device may determine a username of the user for that social media service.

In some implementations security device may store information for determining the communication channel and or the contact information. For example security device may store code that instructs security device to determine the communication channel and or the contact information. Additionally or alternatively server device may store information e.g. code for determining the communication channel and or the contact information and may provide information identifying the communication channel and or contact information to security device . For example server device may provide a validation request indicator to security device and the validation request indicator may include information that identifies the communication channel and or the contact information to be used to validate the user.

As further shown in process may include providing validation information via the communication channel using the contact information block . For example security device may provide validation information to a user. Security device may provide the validation information using a communication channel and contact information determined for the user. For example security device may provide the validation information via a text message a voice message an e mail message or the like using the determined contact information for the user.

Validation information may include a validation code in some implementations. A validation code may include a string of characters used to validate a user. In some implementations the validation code may include an RSA token. Additionally or alternatively validation information may include a validation challenge such as a question to which the user may provide a response e.g. What is your middle name .

In some implementations a user may interact with a website and security device may determine a communication channel e.g. a message type contact information and or a validation type e.g. using a validation code using a validation challenge etc. based on a sensitivity level of the interaction. For example the user may attempt to log into a banking website e.g. a less sensitive interaction and security device may send an email message with a validation code to the user s email address. Then the user may attempt to transfer money from the user s bank account e.g. a more sensitive interaction and security device may send an SMS message with a validation challenge e.g. a security question to the user s phone. In this way the difficulty of validation may depend upon the sensitivity level of a user interaction e.g. a type of transaction requested a type of information requested etc. . In other words security device may treat a more sensitive interaction using a more difficult validation technique than a less sensitive interaction.

As another example security device may use different validation techniques for user requests to access different portions of a website. For example security device may use a first validation technique e.g. a voice message with a validation code via the user s phone to grant or deny the user access to a first portion of the website and may use a second validation technique e.g. a social media message with a validation challenge via the user s social media account to grant or deny the user access to a second portion of the website.

As further shown in process may include providing a validation prompt for display on the client device block and receiving a validation response from the client device block . For example security device may provide to client device information that causes client device to provide a validation prompt for display. A validation prompt may include a user interface or a portion of a user interface that permits the user to input information such as a validation response e.g. via a text box or another input mechanism . As an example security device may provide code e.g. hypertext markup language HTML code to client device which may cause a browser running on client device to display the validation prompt.

Security device may provide the validation prompt based on the communication channel the contact information and or the validation information in some implementations. For example if security device provides a validation code via an SMS text message to a user s cell phone then the validation prompt may indicate that the validation code was sent to the user s cell phone using an SMS text message and may identify the cell phone number to which the validation code was sent.

The user may input a validation response via the validation prompt and client device may provide the validation response to security device for validation. For example security device may provide to a user s phone a text message with a validation code. The user may receive the text message using the user s phone and may input the validation code into a browser of client device e.g. using the validation prompt . As another example security device may provide to a user s email address a validation challenge asking the user to input the answer to a challenge question via the validation prompt. The user may receive the email e.g. using client device and or another device and may input a validation response to the validation challenge via the validation prompt. A validation response may refer to information input by a user using the validation prompt such as a validation code an answer to a validation challenge or the like. The user may provide the validation response to security device via client device and or another device e.g. the user s phone a different client device than the one that sent the request etc. . Security device may receive information that identifies the validation response.

As further shown in process may include determining whether the validation response is valid block . For example security device may determine whether the validation response received from client device is valid. Security device may make this determination based on the validation information provided via the communication channel. For example if the validation information includes a validation code then security device may determine whether a validation code included in the validation response e.g. received from client device matches the validation provided via the communication channel. As another example if the validation information includes a validation challenge then security device may determine whether an answer to the validation challenge included in the validation response matches a stored answer to the validation challenge e.g. stored by security device and or server device .

As further shown in if the validation response is not valid block NO then process may include providing the request and an invalidation indicator to the server device block . For example if security device determines that the validation response is invalid then security device may provide an invalidation indicator with the request e.g. in a header of the request in the body of the request etc. to server device . The invalidation indicator may instruct server device to not respond to the request and or to not provide a requested resource to client device . Additionally or alternatively security device may not provide a validation indicator to server device . Additionally or alternatively security device may drop the request from client device may prevent server device from providing a response to the request e.g. by intercepting and dropping the response may provide an indication to server device that the request is invalid and should not be processed and or may take some other action to prevent an action in response to the request.

In some implementations if security device determines that the validation response is invalid then security device may return to block to determine a communication channel e.g. the same communication channel or a different communication channel and or contact information e.g. the same contact information or different contact information to be used to provide new validation information e.g. the same validation information or different validation information to the user. For example a user may be given a threshold quantity of chances to input a validation response that is valid. Security device may provide new validation information to the user based on whether the threshold has been satisfied.

As an example security device may use a first communication channel e.g. an SMS message and first contact information e.g. a user s phone number a first time that validation information is sent and may use a second communication channel e.g. an email message and second contact information e.g. a user s email address a second time that validation information is sent. If validation fails a threshold quantity of times then security device may place the user and or client device on a blacklist e.g. by storing information that identifies the user and or client device and may block the user and or client device from accessing server device .

In some implementations security device may receive information identifying the first communication channel may receive the first contact information may receive information identifying the second communication channel may receive the second contact information etc. from server device based on transmitting the initial request to server device . In other words security device may receive information identifying multiple communication channels and may receive multiple items of contact information based on the initial request.

Additionally or alternatively security device may receive information identifying the first communication channel and the first contact information from server device based on the initial request. Security device may then determine that the validation response is invalid and may provide an invalidation indicator to server device . Based on providing the invalidation indicator security device may receive from server device information identifying the second communication channel and the second contact information. Security device and server device may continue to operate in this manner determining a communication channel and contact information to be used for validation until the user is validated or blocked.

As further shown in if the validation response is valid block YES then process may include providing the request and a validation indicator to the server device block . For example if security device determines that the validation response is valid then security device may provide the request and a validation indicator to server device . The validation indicator may indicate that the request is valid and or may instruct server device to respond to the request. The validation indicator may include for example a string of characters recognizable by server device as indicating a valid request e.g. IsValid True . Security device may provide the validation indicator in a header of the request a body of the request or the like. Based on receiving the validation indicator server device may respond to the request and or may perform an action identified in the request.

Security device may store the request e.g. based on receiving an indication from server device that the request is to be validated . Once security device has validated the request security device may provide the validation indicator to server device in a header of the request. In other words security device may reissue the request to server device with a header that indicates that the request has been validated. In this way security device may handle the validation processing to protect server device from malicious attacks.

As further shown in process may include receiving from the server device a response to the request block and providing the response to the client device block . For example security device may provide the request and the validation indicator to server device . Server device may process the request and provide a response to the request to security device based on receiving the validation indicator. Security device may provide the response to client device . In this way a user may be protected from unauthorized transactions because a malicious attacker may not have access to the communication channel used to provide the validation information to the user.

Additionally or alternatively security device may store the original response from server device e.g. the response provided along with the validation request indicator . In this case security device may provide the original response to client device based on determining that the validation response is valid e.g. without requesting the original response from server device after validation .

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in and by reference number assume that a user is attempting to log into a banking website shown as www.banksite.com. For example assume that the user has entered the user s username shown as BankCustomer1 and the user s password to log into the website. The user enters the username and password into a browser running on client device . Assume that server device hosts the website www.banksite.com. As shown by reference number client device sends the login request intended for server device to security device . As shown by reference number security device forwards the login request to server device . As shown by reference number server device determines that the login request needs validation. For example server device may require validation for all login requests e.g. when the website or the type of information being requested is highly sensitive . As another example server device may require validation for a particular percentage of login requests and or may randomly require validation for login requests e.g. when the website or the type of information being request is less sensitive . Assume that server device determines to perform validation using an SMS text message. As shown by reference number based on this determination server device determines a phone number associated with BankCustomer1 shown as 555 123 1234.

As shown in and by reference number server device provides an indication to security device that the user is to be validated and further identifies the communication channel and the contact information to be used for validation. For example server device provides a response to security device that includes a header shown as X Require Validation type SMS number 5551231234 which indicates the type of communication channel e.g. an SMS message and the phone number to use for validation e.g. 555 123 1234 . As shown by reference number security device sends a validation code via an SMS text message to the user s phone with the phone number 555 123 1234. As shown assume that the validation code is 1234. As shown by reference number security device also sends information that causes a validation prompt to be provided for display by client device .

As shown in and by reference number client device provides the validation prompt for display via the browser. Assume that the user inputs a validation response of 9876 via the validation prompt. As shown by reference number client device sends the validation response of 9876 to security device . As shown by reference number security device compares the validation response of 9876 to the validation code of 1234 previously sent to the user s phone and determines that the validation response does not match the validation code. Thus security device determines that the validation response is invalid.

As shown by reference number security device determines to send a new validation code to the user s email address. In some implementations server device may provide instructions to security device indicating a quantity of attempts to give a user to provide a correct validation response e.g. before locking the user out of the website . Additionally or alternatively server device may provide information indicating different communication channels and or contact information to be used when the user inputs an incorrect validation response. Server device may provide this information to security device upon receiving the initial request. Additionally or alternatively server device may provide this information to security device after the initial request and after one or more incorrect validation responses.

For the purpose of assume that security device has received instructions from server device indicating that a user is to be given two attempts to provide a correct validation response that a first validation code is to be sent to the user s phone e.g. 555 123 1234 on the first attempt and that a second validation code is to be sent to the user s email address e.g. customer1 email.com on the second attempt. As shown by reference number assume that security device sends a validation code of 7777 to the user s email address. As shown by reference number security device also sends information that causes a validation prompt e.g. a different validation prompt to be provided for display by client device .

As shown in and by reference number client device provides the validation prompt for display via the browser. Assume that the user inputs a validation response of 7777 via the validation prompt. As shown by reference number client device sends the validation response of 7777 to security device . As shown by reference number security device compares the validation response of 7777 to the validation code of 7777 previously sent to the user s email address and determines that the validation response matches the validation code. Thus security device determines that the validation response is valid.

As shown by reference number security device may retransmit the original request from client device to server device and may include a header in the request that includes a validation indicator. For example assume that the validation indicator is included in the header as X Validation Complete True. Server device receives the request determines that the validation indicator is present in the request and provides a response to the request. For example as shown by reference number server device provides a Login Successful webpage intended for client device to security device . As shown by reference number security device provides the webpage to client device for display via the browser. In this way server device and or security device may protect a user from malicious attacks e.g. attempts to discover the user s banking information by validating a user prior to permitting the user to access sensitive information.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Some implementations are described herein as receiving information from a device or providing information to a device. These phrases may refer to receiving information directly from a device or providing information directly to a device without the information being transferred via an intermediary device situated along a communication path between devices. Additionally or alternatively these phrases may refer to receiving information provided by a device via one or more intermediary devices e.g. network devices or providing information to a device via one or more intermediary devices.

Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As used herein satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold more than the threshold higher than the threshold greater than or equal to the threshold less than the threshold fewer than the threshold lower than the threshold less than or equal to the threshold equal to the threshold etc.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

