---

title: Athermal channeled spectropolarimeter
abstract: A temperature insensitive (athermal) channeled spectropolarimeter (CSP) is described. The athermal CSP includes a crystal retarder formed of a biaxial crystal. The crystal retarder has three crystal axes, wherein each axis has its own distinct index of refraction. The axes are oriented in a particular manner, causing an amplitude modulating carrier frequency induced by the crystal retarder to be thermally invariant. Accordingly, a calibration beam technique can be used over a relatively wide range of ambient temperatures, with a common calibration data set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09207123&OS=09207123&RS=09207123
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09207123
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 771 273 filed on Mar. 1 2013 and entitled THERMALLY STABLED CHANNELED SPECTROPOLARIMETRY the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Channeled spectropolarimetry refers to analysis of polarization states of an electromagnetic EM signal as a function of respective wavelengths of the EM signal. A conventional channeled spectropolarimeter CSP comprises a plurality of crystal retarders which are typically composed of a uniaxial crystal such as calcite or quartz e.g. for the visible near infrared VISNIR spectrum . Other exemplary uniaxial crystals include cadmium sulfide and cadmium selenide e.g. for the thermal infrared spectrum LWIR . These uniaxial crystals have two distinct indices of refraction corresponding to two separate crystal axes e.g. a fast axis and a slow axis in the uniaxial crystal wherein the crystal axes are orthogonal to one another.

The crystal retarders are typically designed for a particular application such as characterization of a particular object discriminating between objects e.g. man made or natural etc. Thicknesses of crystal retarders in a conventional CSP are selected based upon desired amplitude modulating carrier frequencies respectively induced by the crystal retarders in an EM signal being analyzed. Orientations of the crystal retarders relative to one another are selected based upon polarization states that are modulated onto the EM signal passing through the crystal retarder. Thus a crystal retarder in a CSP amplitude modulates the frequency spectrum of the EM signal passing therethrough with a particular carrier frequency and certain polarization states. The amplitude modulating carrier frequency is based upon a thickness of the crystal retarder and the orientation of the fast axis and the slow axis in the crystal retarder relative to the transmission axis of the EM signal define the polarization states that are amplitude modulated onto a frequency spectrum of the EM signal. Accordingly to obtain an accurate measurement for the frequency spectrum of the EM signal that is subject to analysis crystal retarders in a CSP must have a relatively precise orientation.

A primary limitation of conventional channeled CSP is related to the sensitivity of the crystal retarders to temperature. With more particularity a conventional CSP includes two uniaxial crystal retarders arranged optically in series with one another and oriented in a particular manner relative to one another. In such a conventional configuration the crystal retarders act to amplitude modulate the desirably measured frequency spectrum with carrier frequencies that comprise the spectrally dependent Stokes parameters S S and S. Using a particular configuration intensity measured by the spectrometer of the CSP is as follows 

In Eq. 1 2 Blis the phase difference introduced by the iretarder B n n is the birefringence of the uniaxial crystal lis the crystal retarder thickness and 1 . To recover the state of polarization SOP information based upon the output of the spectrometer Stokes information must be separated from the phase information associated with the modulating carrier frequencies and which are produced by the crystal retarders of the CSP. One technique used to accomplish this involves acquiring a reference measurement using a known SOP thereby allowing for the phase terms to be characterized. This approach for obtaining a measurement using a CSP can be referred to as the reference beam calibration technique.

A limitation of conventional CSPs and the reference beam calibration technique relates to the temperature sensitivity of the crystal retarders. With more specificity when sample data is acquired at a temperature that is different from the temperature when the calibration data was acquired calibration errors are introduced into the resultant measurement. Temperature change produces a variation in thickness and dispersion of the birefringent retarder elements resulting in a change in the carrier frequencies in the modulated spectral measurements. The change in phase of the iretarder for a change of temperature T is given by the following algorithm 

Eq. 2 implies that when the calibration data is applied after the instrument experiences a change in temperature the carrier frequency phases are not effectively compensated. This produces calibration errors in the polarization data products. To avoid these calibration errors calibration data must be taken frequently or precise thermal stability of the system must be maintained actively. For many CSPs such as those that are field deployed these solutions complicate system operation significantly.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to a temperature insensitive athermal channeled spectropolarimeter CSP . The athermal CSP comprises a crystal retarder that is composed of a biaxial crystal wherein the biaxial crystal has three crystal axes that respectively have three distinct indices of refraction. In an exemplary embodiment the biaxial crystal can be potassium titanyl phosphate KTiOPO . The three crystal axes of the biaxial crystal are configured in the athermal CSP to have a particular orientation relative to the transmission axis of an electromagnetic EM signal that is subject to analysis. In another exemplary embodiment the athermal CSP can comprise multiple crystal retarders each being composed of the biaxial crystal. The crystal axes of the respective crystal retarders can be oriented relative to one another based upon polarization states that are to be analyzed. The athermal CSP further comprises a polarizer wherein the polarizer is positioned optically in series with the crystal retarder or retarders and is configured to allow EM waves that have a particular polarization direction to pass therethrough. Pursuant to an exemplary embodiment the polarizer can be configured such that its transmission axis is parallel to one of the crystal axes of the crystal retarder in the athermal CSP.

The athermal CSP further comprises a spectrometer that is positioned in optical communication with the polarizer e.g. by way of a fiber optic cable or optically in series wherein the spectrometer can be a dispersive spectrometer or a Fourier spectrometer. The output of the spectrometer is a signal that is indicative of polarization states of EM waves of the EM signal that are subject to analysis. As indicated above the athermal CSP is temperature invariant as changes in temperature do not significantly impact the amplitude modulating carrier frequencies induced by the crystal retarder when an EM signal passes therethrough. Therefore for example a set of calibration data can be obtained in a laboratory environment and the same calibration data can be employed when the athermal CSP is used in the field to obtain measurements pertaining to an object of interest regardless of whether there is a change in temperature between when the calibration data was generated and when the measurements in the field are obtained.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to an athermal spectropolarimeter CSP are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

A CSP measures the polarization state of light e.g. visible near infrared infrared . . . as a function of wavelength. Described herein are technologies pertaining to the use of crystal retarders formed of a biaxial crystal in a CSP wherein the crystal retarders are manufactured and oriented in the CSP such that respective amplitude modulating carrier frequencies induced in an EM signal that passes through the crystal retarder are temperature invariant. This results in the CSP being temperature insensitive or athermalized.

With reference now to an exemplary athermal CSP is illustrated. The athermal CSP comprises a crystal retarder that is formed of a biaxial crystal. In an exemplary embodiment the biaxial crystal can be potassium titanyl phosphate KTiOPO . In another example the biaxial crystal can be KNbO. As will be shown and described in greater detail herein the crystal retarder comprises three crystal axes each with a respective distinct index of refraction corresponding thereto. Thus the crystal retarder comprises 1 a first crystal axis A that has a first index of refraction n 2 a second crystal axis B that has a second index of refraction n and 3 a third crystal axis C that has a third index of refraction n. The three crystal axes are each orthogonal to one another. In an exemplary embodiment n

The athermal CSP further includes a polarizer that is positioned optically in series with the crystal retarder . With more particularity a transmission axis of an EM signal that is to be measured passes through the crystal retarder and the polarizer . The polarizer is configured to allow electromagnetic EM waves that have a particular polarization direction to pass therethrough. In an example the polarizer is oriented relative to the crystal retarder such that the polarization direction referenced above is angularly offset by 45 the second crystal axis of the crystal retarder .

The athermal CSP further comprises a spectrometer that is in optical communication with the polarizer such that EM waves that pass through the polarizer are received by the spectrometer . For instance EM waves passing through the polarizer can be directed to a fiber optic cable not shown and directed to the spectrometer . The spectrometer can be for example a dispersive spectrometer a Fourier spectrometer or other suitable type of spectrometer. Generally the spectrometer is configured to output a signal that is indicative of polarization states of an EM signal being measured as a function of wavelengths of the EM signal.

A computing device can be in communication with the spectrometer . For example the computing device can receive the signal output by the spectrometer and can characterize an object or discriminate the object from which the EM signal originates based upon the signal output by the spectrometer.

Referring to an exemplary orientation of the three crystal axes A B and C of the crystal retarder in the athermal CSP is depicted wherein the crystal retarder is composed of KTiOPO e.g. and configured to use in analyzing visible and near infrared wavelengths . As shown the crystal retarder comprises a proximal surface and a distal surface wherein the surfaces and are circular in shape e.g. the crystal retarder is cylindrical . Thus the proximal surface is parallel with the distal surface of the crystal retarder and the proximal surface and the distal surface are parallel to the X axis of a global coordinate system represented by global coordinate system axes . Further the proximal surface and the distal surface are orthogonal to the transmission axis of the EM signal where the transmission axis is parallel to the Z axis of the global coordinate system.

The crystal retarder has a thickness l and a height d. Pursuant to an example the thickness l of the crystal retarder can be between 0.1 mm and 30 mm. It is to be ascertained however that the thickness is dependent on the crystal material used and is selected as a function of a desired amplitude modulating carrier frequency induced in an EM signal that is directed to the crystal retarder .

As indicated above the crystal retarder comprises the three crystal axes A B and C wherein the first crystal axis A has an index of refraction n the second crystal axis B has an index of refraction n and the third crystal axis C has an index of refraction n. In an exemplary embodiment the first crystal axis A forms an angle with the distal surface and the proximal surface of the crystal retarder wherein is approximately 33.7 . The second crystal axis B in this example is orthogonal to the first crystal axis A and is parallel with the Y axis of the global coordinate system and therefore is also parallel to the proximal surface and the distal surface of the crystal retarder . In another example the second crystal axis B can be angularly offset from the Y axis by 45 . The third crystal axis C is orthogonal to axes A and C. Further as presented above n

While illustrates a particular orientation when the crystal retarder is composed of KTiOPO it is to be understood that other orientations can be used when the crystal retarder is composed of other materials and or configured to analyze different wavelengths. An exemplary algorithm that can be employed to determine generally is set forth in Ebbers Thermally Insensitive Single Crystal Biaxial Electro Optic Modulators J. Opt. Soc. Am. B Vol. 12 No. 6 June 1995 Pages 1012 1020 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Returning to operation of the athermal CSP is now described. Initially an EM signal that is subject to measurement is received. The EM signal can be emitted from an object or can be reflected from an object. The EM signal travels along the transmission axis wherein the transmission axis is orthogonal to the proximal surface and the distal surface of the crystal retarder . The crystal retarder oriented as depicted in induces an amplitude modulating carrier frequency in the EM signal passing therethrough where the carrier frequency is dependent upon the thickness l of the crystal retarder . Thus a modulated EM signal exits the crystal retarder where polarization states modulated on frequencies in the frequency spectrum of the modulated EM signal are based upon the orientation of the crystal axes A B and C and their respective indices of refraction.

The modulated EM signal exiting the crystal retarder continues to travel along the transmission axis and reaches the polarizer . The polarizer is oriented to allow EM waves to pass therethrough that have a particular polarization direction. For example the polarizer can be oriented such that an EM signal exiting the polarizer comprises only waves having a polarization direction that is parallel to the B axis of the crystal retarder . In another example the polarizer can be oriented such that an EM signal exiting the polarizer comprises only waves having a polarization direction that is angularly offset by 45 in the X Y plane from the B axis of the crystal retarder . The output of the polarizer can be referred to as a polarized EM signal. The spectrometer receives the polarized EM signal that exits the polarizer . The spectrometer outputs a signal that is indicative of polarization states of the original EM signal as a function of frequencies in the frequency spectrum of the EM signal. The output of the spectrometer can be analogized to a human fingerprint such that the polarization states as a function of frequency can be indicative of an identity of an object a class of an object e.g. man made or natural etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the athermal CSP shown in can be deployed in a remote sensing application where the athermal CSP may be exposed to a relatively wide range of temperatures. When the crystal retarder is oriented relative to the transmission axis and the indices of refraction are defined as shown in the crystal retarder is relatively thermally invariant. That is the amplitude modulating carrier frequencies induced by the crystal retarder are stable over a relatively large temperature range of the crystal retarder e.g. 75 C. . Additionally the athermal CSP can be a point source athermal CSP or may be configured to output a signal that is indicative of polarization states with respect to frequencies of an EM signal pertaining to a larger scene. In either case the athermal CSP may further include an optics element e.g. a collimator or other suitable lens that is configured to direct EM signal s along the transmission path .

Still more particular detail relating to the athermal CSP is now set forth. In the athermal CSP the frequency spectrum of the EM signal is amplitude modulated with carrier frequencies that include the spectrally dependent Sand SStokes parameters. When the athermal CSP is modified to include a second crystal retarder e.g. positioned between the crystal retarder and the polarizer and the second axis of the second crystal retarder e.g. B axis is angularly offset from the B axis of the crystal retarder by 45 in the X Y plane the frequency spectrum of the EM signal subject to measurement can be amplitude modulated with carrier frequencies that comprise the spectrally dependent S S and SStokes parameters. In such a configuration the intensity measured by the spectrometer can be as set forth in Eq. 1 . Using a calibration data set the Stokes information can be separated from the phase information associated with the modulating carrier frequencies induced by the crystal retarder and the second crystal retarder. Moreover the calibration data set can be used over a range of temperatures as the athermal CSP is thermally insensitive e.g. due to the crystal retarders being thermally insensitive . Accordingly the reference beam calibration technique can be used without the need for frequent recalibration. The crystal retarder is temperature insensitive due to the three distinct indices of refraction in the biaxial crystal from which the crystal retarder is formed.

When the athermal CSP includes a single crystal retarder the crystal retarder the athermal CSP is capable of measuring Sand S. In another exemplary embodiment the athermal CSP can be configured to measure Sand S. In still yet another exemplary embodiment a quarter wave plate can be added when the CSP includes the single crystal retarder in which case the athermal CSP can be configured to measure Sand S. The intensity I is given by Eq. 1 where 0 and 2 n n l is the phase difference introduced by the crystal retarder . Accordingly Sand Sare modulated by the same carrier frequency but can be separated due to the 2 phase shift. The index of refraction nis the index of refraction in the AC plane perpendicular to n and is given as follows 

In Eq. 3 is defined relative to the distal surface of the crystal retarder . In experiments the optical path difference OPD introduced by the crystal retarder when oriented as shown in was found to be approximately 97 m at 700 nm with n 1.785 n 1.764 and l 4.75 mm.

Now referring to another exemplary athermal CSP is illustrated. The athermal CSP includes the crystal retarder the polarizer the spectrometer and the computing device . In this example the athermal CSP also includes at least one other cylindrical crystal retarder crystal retarder N . In an exemplary embodiment the crystal retarder can also be composed of the biaxial crystal referenced above and can have three crystal axes A B and C that respectively correspond to the crystal axes of the first crystal retarder . In an exemplary embodiment the Nth crystal retarder can be rotated counter clockwise or clockwise about the Z axis such that the second crystal axis B of the Nth crystal retarder is angularly offset from the second crystal axis B axis of the crystal retarder . In such a configuration the A axis of the Nth crystal retarder forms an angle with the circular face of the Nth crystal retarder that is determined as a function of material of the Nth crystal retarder and the spectrum that is being analyzed. For instance with respect to a crystal retarder composed of KTiOPO where the athermal CSP is configured to analyze the visible and near infrared spectrum such angle can be approximately 33.7 . Pursuant to an example the angular offset between the B axis of the first crystal retarder and the B axis of the Nth crystal retarder can be 45 . Further the indices of refraction of the three crystal axes of the Nth crystal retarder can be equivalent to n n and n. In another example the indices of refraction of the three crystal axes of the Nth crystal retarder can be different from those of the crystal retarder however in either case n

Turning now to an exemplary methodology for forming an athermal CSP is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a crystal retarder or several crystal retarders a polarizer and a spectrometer are received. The crystal retarder s as described above is composed of a biaxial crystal that comprises three crystal axes having three distinct indices of refraction. At the polarizer is positioned between the crystal retarder and the spectrometer. The methodology completes at .

With reference now to an exemplary methodology for characterizing an object through use of an athermal CSP is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an athermal CSP is configured to receive an EM signal that is subject to measurement. The athermal CSP includes at least one crystal retarder that is composed of a biaxial crystal. At polarization states of the EM signal as a function of frequencies of the EM signal are determined. For example the spectrometer of the athermal CSP can output a signal that is indicative of such polarization states. At the object is characterized based upon the polarization states and the methodology completes at .

The experimental results referenced below are generated based upon the athermal CSP shown in with the crystal retarder oriented with the B axis angularly offset by 45 degrees from the Y axis of the global coordinate system but otherwise oriented as shown in with thickness l 4.75 mm n 1.785 n 1.764 and the polarizer oriented to allow EM waves to pass therethrough with polarization direction parallel to the Y axis. The output of the polarizer was focused into a fiber connected to a spectrometer operating over a spectral range of 200 11 nm with a spectral resolution of 0.44 nm.

To quantify the thermally induced errors in reconstructed spectropolarimetric data products the generating polarizer was used to produce different linear input polarization states ranging from horizontal e.g. parallel to the Z axis 

The experiment was repeated for a series of temperatures ranging from 34.7 C. to 47.1 C. The RMS errors in the reconstructed Svalues when comparing the ambient and increased temperature reference measurements over 500 750 nm are shown in Table 1 below. These results provide an initial quantification of the anticipated error for a given change in temperature for this type of system. For comparison a simulated partial channeled spectropolarimeter using an equivalent quartz retarder yields a reconstruction error of 183 RMS for a temperature increase from 21.4 C. to 49.8 C.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

