---

title: Small molecule inhibitors of STAT3 with anti-tumor activity
abstract: The present invention concerns compounds, compositions containing these compounds, and methods of using these compounds and compositions as inhibitors of Stat3 signaling, Stat3 dimerization, Stat3-DNA binding, Stat5-DNA binding, and/or aberrant cell growth in vitro or in vivo, e.g., as anti-cancer agents for treatment of cancer, such as breast cancer. The compounds of the invention include, but are not limited to, NSC 74859 (S31-201), NSC 42067, NSC 59263, NSC 75912, NSC 11421, NSC 91529, NSC 263435, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and analogs of the foregoing. Other non-malignant diseases characterized by proliferation of cells that may be treated using the compounds of the invention, but are not limited to, cirrhosis of the liver; graft rejection; restenosis; and disorders characterized by a proliferation of T cells such as autoimmune diseases, e.g., type 1 diabetes, lupus and multiple sclerosis. The invention further includes an in-vitro screening test for the presence of malignant cells in a mammalian tissue; a method of identifying inhibitors of constitutive Stat3 activation, Stat3-DNA binding, Stat5-DNA binding, and/or Stat3 dimerization; and a method of identifying anti-cancer agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604923&OS=09604923&RS=09604923
owner: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA RESEARCH FOUNDATION, INC.
number: 09604923
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140407
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 931 607 filed Feb. 4 2011 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 805 217 filed May 21 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 960 434 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 801 750 filed May 19 2006 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety including any figures tables nucleic acid sequences amino acid sequences and drawings.

This invention was made with government support under grant number CA106439 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and grant number W81XWH 08 2 0101 awarded by United States Army Medical Research and Materiel Command. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Signal transduction proteins important in carcinogenesis and cancer progression present attractive targets for the development of novel anticancer therapeutics. The family of proteins Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription STAT are activated in response to cytokines and growth factors and promote proliferation survival and other biological processes Bromberg 2000 2 86 90 Darnell J. E. Jr. 2002 2 740 749 Yu H. and Jove R. 2004 4 97 105 . STATs are activated by phosphorylation of a critical tyrosine residue which is mediated by growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases Janus kinases or the Src family kinases. Upon tyrosine phosphorylation dimers of STATs formed between two phosphorylated monomers translocate to the nucleus bind to specific DNA response elements in the promoters of target genes and induce gene expression. Aberrant activity of one of the family members Stat3 contributes to carcinogenesis and tumor progression by upregulating gene expression and promoting dysregulated growth survival and angiogenesis and modulating immune responses Darnell J. E. Jr. 2002 2 740 749 Yu H. and Jove R. 2004 4 97 105 Bromberg J. and Darnell J. E. Jr. 2000 19 2468 2473 Bowman T. et al. 2000 19 2474 2488 Turkson J. and Jove R. 2000 19 6613 6626 Buettner R. et al. 2002 8 945 954 Turkson J. 2004 8 409 422 Darnell J. E. 2005 11 595 596 .

As a critical step in STAT activation Shuai K. et al. 1994 76 821 828 the dimerization between two STAT monomers presents an attractive target to abolish Stat3 DNA binding and transcriptional activity and inhibit Stat3 biological functions Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 . Stat3 dimerization relies on the reciprocal binding of the SH2 domain of one monomer to the pTyr peptide containing APY LKT Ala Pro pTyr Leu Lys Thr SEQ ID NO 1 sequence of the other Stat3 monomer. To pursue the development of inhibitors of Stat3 signaling key structural information gleaned from the X ray crystal structure of the Stat3 homodimer Becker S. et al. 1998 394 145 151 was used in the computational modeling and automated docking of small molecules into the SH2 domain of a Stat3 monomer relative to the bound native pTyr peptide in order to identify binders of the Stat3 SH2 domain and potentially disruptors of Stat3 Stat3 dimers Shao H. et al. 2004 279 18967 18973 Song H. et al. 2005 102 4700 4705 .

Structure based high throughput virtual screening of the National Cancer Institute NCI Chemical libraries identified three compounds that selectively inhibit Stat3 DNA binding activity in vitro with ICvalues of 65 86 namely NSC 74859 NSC 59263 and NSC 42067. The highest scoring compound NSC 74859 re synthesized as a pure sample and named S3I 201 selectively inhibits Stat3 DNA binding activity in vitro with an ICvalue of 86 33 M. Furthermore S3I 201 induces growth inhibition and apoptosis of malignant cells in part by inhibiting constitutively active Stat3 and induces human breast tumor regression in xenograft models. These findings support the therapeutic potential of S3I 201 and other Stat3 inhibitors against tumors harboring aberrant Stat3 activity.

The present invention concerns isolated compounds compositions containing these compounds and methods of using these compounds and compositions as inhibitors of Stat3 and or as inhibitors of aberrant cell growth e.g. as anti cancer agents. In one embodiment the compound has a structure described by Formula A B C D E or F in or A D respectively or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog thereof. In another embodiment the compound is NSC 74859 S3I 201 shown in NSC 59263 shown in NSC 42067 shown in NSC 75912 shown in NSC 11421 shown in NSC 91529 shown in NSC 263435 shown in or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog of any of the foregoing. In another embodiment the compound is an analog of S3I 201 shown in i.e. a compound selected from the group consisting of HL2 006 1 HL2 006 2 HL2 006 3 HL2 006 4 HL2 006 5 HL2 011 1 HL2 011 2 HL2 011 3 HL2 011 4 HL2 011 5 BG2069 1 HL2 011 6 HL2 011 7 HL2 005 HL2 003 BG2066 BG2074 BG3004 BG3006A BG3006B BG3006D BG3009 RPM381 RPM384 RPM385 RPM405 RPM411 RPM407 RPM412 RPM408 RPM410 RPM415 RPM416 RPM418 RPM418 A RPM427 RPM431 RPM432 RPM444 RPM448 RPM445 RPM447 RPM452 RPM202 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog of any of the foregoing. In another embodiment the compound is one listed in Table 4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog thereof.

One aspect of the invention concerns a method of treating a proliferation disorder in a subject comprising administering an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention to the subject. In one embodiment the disorder is mediated by cells harboring constitutively active Stat3.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of suppressing the growth of malignant cells comprising contacting the cells in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention. In one embodiment the malignant cells harbor constitutively active Stat3.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of inducing apoptosis in malignant cells comprising contacting the cells in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention. In one embodiment the malignant cells harbor constitutively active Stat3.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of inhibiting constitutive activation of Stat3 in cells comprising contacting the cells in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of preventing Stat3 dimerization in a mammalian cell the method comprising contacting the cell in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least compound of the invention.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a a method of disrupting Stat3 DNA binding the method comprising contacting the Stat3 with an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a a method of disrupting Stat5 DNA binding the method comprising contacting the Stat5 with an effective amount of at least one compound of the invention.

Another aspect of the invention concerns an in vitro screening test for the presence of malignant cells in a mammalian tissue the test including obtaining a sample containing viable cells of the tissue culturing the sample under conditions promoting growth of the viable cells contained therein treating the cultured sample with a compound of the invention and analyzing the treated sample by a method effective to determine percent apoptosis of cells as an indicator of presence of malignant cells in the sample.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of identifying inhibitors of constitutive Stat3 activation Stat3 DNA binding Stat5 DNA binding and or Stat3 dimerization the method comprising selecting a compound having a structure of Formula A B C D E or F shown in D and determining whether the compound inhibits constitutive Stat3 activation disrupts Stat3 DNA binding disrupts Stat5 DNA binding prevents e.g. reduces incidence of Stat3 dimerization or determining two or more of the foregoing.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of identifying anti cancer agents the method comprising selecting a compound having a structure of Formula A B C D E or F shown in D and determining whether the compound inhibits the growth of cancer cells in vitro or in vivo e.g. in an animal model .

SEQ ID NO 3 is the sequence of the hSIE high affinity sis inducible element from the c fos gene m67 variant oligonucleotide probe.

SEQ ID NO 4 is the sequence of the MGFe mammary gland factor element from the bovine casein gene promoter oligonucleotide probe.

The present invention concerns isolated compounds compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using these compounds and compositions as inhibitors of Stat3 and inhibitors of aberrant cell growth e.g. as anti cancer agents.

Constitutively active Stat3 is a prevalent molecular abnormality with a critical role in human malignant transformation and which represents a valid target for novel anticancer drug design. S3I 201 NSC 74859 is a novel inhibitor of Stat3 activity identified from the National Cancer Institute chemical libraries using structure based virtual screening with a computer model of the Stat3 SH2 domain bound to its Stat3 phosphotyrosine peptide derived from the X ray crystal structure of the Stat3 homodimer. S3I 201 inhibits Stat3 Stat3 complex formation and Stat3 DNA binding and transcriptional activities. Furthermore S3I 201 inhibits growth and induces apoptosis preferentially in tumors cells that contain persistently activated Stat3. Constitutively dimerized and active Stat3C and Stat3 SH2 domain rescue tumor cells from S3I 201 induced apoptosis. Finally S3I 201 inhibits the expression of the Stat3 regulated genes Cyclin D1 Bcl xL and Survivin and inhibits the growth of human breast tumors in vivo. These findings strongly suggest that the antitumor activity of S3I 201 is mediated in part through inhibition of aberrant Stat3 activation and provide the proof of concept for the potential clinical use of Stat3 inhibitors such as S3I 201 in tumors harboring aberrant Stat3.

Aspects of the invention include but are not limited to Stat3 inhibitors compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using these compounds and compositions as inhibitors of Stat3 and or as inhibitors of aberrant cell growth e.g. as anti cancer agents. In one embodiment the compound has a structure encompassed by Formula A B C D E or F in D respectively or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog thereof. In another embodiment the compound is NSC 74859 S3I 201 shown in NSC 59263 shown in NSC 42067 shown in NSC 75912 shown in NSC 11421 shown in NSC 91529 shown in NSC 263435 shown in or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog of any of the foregoing. In another embodiment the compound is an analog of S3I 201 shown in i.e. a compound selected from the group consisting of HL2 006 1 HL2 006 2 HL2 006 3 HL2 006 4 HL2 006 5 HL2 011 1 HL2 011 2 HL2 011 3 HL2 011 4 HL2 011 5 BG2069 1 HL2 011 6 HL2 011 7 HL2 005 HL2 003 BG2066 BG2074 BG3004 BG3006A BG3006B BG3006D BG3009 RPM381 RPM384 RPM385 RPM405 RPM411 RPM407 RPM412 RPM408 RPM410 RPM415 RPM416 RPM418 RPM418 A RPM427 RPM431 RPM432 RPM444 RPM448 RPM445 RPM447 RPM452 and RPM202 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog of any of the foregoing. In another embodiment the compound is one listed in Table 4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog thereof.

One aspect of the subject invention provides methods for using the compounds of the invention as Stat3 inhibitors and or as anti proliferative agents. Thus in one embodiment the method of the invention comprises administering a compound of the invention to cells in vitro or in vivo in an amount sufficient to achieve the desired result e.g. reduction of Stat3 activation. In another embodiment the method comprises administering a compound of the invention to a human or non human subject in an amount effective to achieve the desired therapeutic result. In one embodiment more than one compound of the invention is administered to the cells in vitro or in vivo. In a preferred embodiment the compound is S3I 201 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog thereof.

As used herein the terms treatment and treating and grammatical variations thereof include therapy and prophylaxis. When used as a therapy the compounds of the invention by themselves or in conjunction with other agents alleviate or reduce one or more symptoms associated with a proliferation disorder e.g. cancer . Thus the treatment methods may or may not be curative in nature. When used as a prophylactic treatment the compounds of the invention by themselves or in conjunction with other agents delay the onset of and may prevent one or more symptoms associated with a proliferation disorder e.g. cancer or may prevent the genesis of the condition.

In one aspect the method of the invention is a method for treating a proliferation disorder such as cancer comprising administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention to a subject in need thereof.

In another aspect the method of the invention is a method for inhibiting the growth of cancer cells in vitro or in vivo comprising administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention to the cancer cells.

In another aspect the subject invention provides compositions comprising at least one isolated compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

By inhibiting the growth of cells proliferating in an aberrant manner the methods compounds and compositions of the present invention can be used to treat a number of cell proliferation disorders such as cancers including but not limited to leukemias and lymphomas such as acute lymphocytic leukemia acute non lymphocytic leukemias chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia Hodgkin s Disease non Hodgkin s lymphomas and multiple myeloma childhood solid tumors such as brain tumors neuroblastoma retinoblastoma Wilms Tumor bone tumors and soft tissue sarcomas common solid tumors of adults such as lung cancer colon and rectum cancer breast cancer prostate cancer urinary cancers uterine cancers bladder cancers oral cancers pancreatic cancer melanoma and other skin cancers stomach cancer ovarian cancer brain tumors liver cancer laryngeal cancer thyroid cancer esophageal cancer and testicular cancer. The methods of the subject invention can be carried out in vivo or in vitro to inhibit the growth of cells e.g. cancer cells in humans and non human mammals. Treatment for a proliferation disorder can proceed by the Stat3 inhibitor s anti proliferative activity such as pro apoptotic activity or by other mechanisms. In one embodiment the proliferation disorder is one on which the Stat3 inhibitor s act by inhibition of Stat3 DNA binding.

Compounds of the invention having the capability to modulate e.g. reduce or eliminate signaling of the STAT3 and or STATS signaling pathway in vitro and or in vivo or to inhibit the growth of cancer cells in vitro and or in vivo by inhibition of STAT3 and or STATS signaling or a different mechanism would be considered to have the desired biological activity in accordance with the subject invention. For therapeutic applications compounds of the subject invention have the capability to inhibit activation of the STAT3 and or STATS signaling pathway or to inhibit the growth of cancer cells in vitro and or in vivo by inhibition of STAT3 and or STATS signaling or a different mechanism. Inhibition of STAT3 and or STATS signaling can be assessed directly or indirectly by various methods including assays for inhibition of STAT3 dimerization inhibition of STAT3 DNA binding and or inhibition of STATS DNA binding for example. Inhibition of STAT3 and or STATS signaling by compounds of the invention selectively promotes apoptosis in tumor cells that harbor constitutively activated STAT3. Therefore the desirable goals of promoting apoptosis programmed cell death of selective cancerous cells and suppression of malignant transformation of normal cells within a patient are likewise accomplished through administration of antagonists or inhibitors of STAT 3 signaling of the present invention which can be administered as simple compounds or in a pharmaceutical formulation.

In one embodiment the proliferation disorder to be treated is a cancer producing a tumor characterized by over activation of Stat1 Stat3 Stat5 or a combination of two or all three of the foregoing. Examples of such cancer types include but are not limited to breast cancer ovarian cancer multiple myeloma and blood malignancies such as acute myelogenous leukemia.

In addition to cancer the proliferation disorder to be treated using the compounds compositions and methods of the invention can be one characterized by aberrant Stat3 activation within cells associated with a non malignant disease pathological state or disorder collectively disease and likewise comprising administering or contacting the cells with a an effective amount of one or more Stat3 inhibitors to reduce or inhibit the proliferation. The proliferation hypertrophy or overgrowth of cells that is common to these diseases is mediated by overactivation of Stat3. This protein becomes activated by a series of biochemical events. The activation of Stat3 then leads to another series of inter related biochemical reactions or signal transduction cascades that ultimately produce cell growth and division.

In one embodiment the proliferation disorder to be treated is characterized by a proliferation of T cells such as autoimmune disease e.g. type 1 diabetes lupus and multiple sclerosis and pathological states such as graft rejection induced by the presentation of a foreign antigen such as a graft in response to a disease condition e.g. kidney failure . Other non malignant diseases characterized by proliferation of cells include cirrhosis of the liver and restenosis.

The methods of the present invention can be advantageously combined with at least one additional treatment method including but not limited to chemotherapy radiation therapy or any other therapy known to those of skill in the art for the treatment and management of proliferation disorders such as cancer.

In one embodiment the methods and compositions of the invention include the incorporation of a ras antagonist. Ras protein is the on off switch between hormone growth factor receptors and the regulatory cascading that result in cell division. For Ras to be activated i.e. turned on to stimulate the regulatory cascades it must first be attached to the inside of the cell membrane. Ras antagonist drug development aimed at blocking the action of Ras on the regulatory cascades has focused on interrupting the association of Ras with the cell membrane blocking activation of Ras or inhibiting activated Ras. The details of the approaches to development of Ras antagonists are reviewed in Kloog et al. 1999 8 12 2121 2140. Thus by the term ras antagonist it is meant any compound or agent that targets one or more of these phenomena so as to result in inhibition of cell proliferation.

The Ras antagonists that may be used in conjunction with the Stat3 inhibitors of the invention affect e.g. inhibit the binding of Ras to the cell membrane which in turn reduces or inhibits the unwanted cell proliferation. Preferred Ras antagonists include farnesyl thiosalicylic acid FTS and structurally related compounds or analogs thereof which are believed to function by displacing or dislodging Ras from its membrane anchor. These organic compounds may be administered parenterally or orally. In a particularly preferred embodiment the Ras antagonist is formulated for oral or parenteral administration by complexation with cyclodextrin.

While compounds of the invention can be administered to cells in vitro and in vivo as isolated compounds it is preferred to administer these compounds as part of a pharmaceutical composition. The subject invention thus further provides compositions comprising a compound of the invention such as those shown in NSC 74859 S3I 201 NSC 59263 NSC 42067 NSC 42067 NSC 75912 NSC 11421 NSC 91529 and NSC 263435 D Formulas A B C D E and F HL2 006 1 HL2 006 2 HL2 006 3 HL2 006 4 HL2 006 5 HL2 011 1 HL2 011 2 HL2 011 3 HL2 011 4 HL2 011 5 BG2069 1 HL2 011 6 HL2 011 7 HL2 005 HL2 003 BG2066 BG2074 BG3004 BG3006A BG3006B BG3006D BG3009 RPM381 RPM384 RPM385 RPM405 RPM411 RPM407 RPM412 RPM408 RPM410 RPM415 RPM416 RPM418 RPM418 A RPM427 RPM431 RPM432 RPM444 RPM448 RPM445 RPM447 RPM452 and RPM202 and listed in Tables 4 and 5 or physiologically acceptable salt s or analogs of any of the foregoing in association with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition can be adapted for various routes of administration such as enteral parenteral intravenous intramuscular topical subcutaneous and so forth. Administration can be continuous or at distinct intervals as can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The compounds of the invention can be formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions. Formulations are described in a number of sources which are well known and readily available to those skilled in the art. For example Martin E. W. 1995 Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 19ed. describes formulations which can be used in connection with the subject invention. Formulations suitable for administration include for example aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and nonaqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the condition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injections prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powder granules tablets etc. It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the compositions of the subject invention can include other agents conventional in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question.

The compounds of the present invention include all hydrates and salts of the compounds shown in Figured 7 9 NSC 74859 S3I 201 NSC 59263 NSC 42067 D Formulas A B C D E and F NSC 42067 NSC 75912 NSC 11421 NSC 91529 and NSC 263435 or e.g. HL2 006 1 HL2 006 2 HL2 006 3 HL2 006 4 HL2 006 5 HL2 011 1 HL2 011 2 HL2 011 3 HL2 011 4 HL2 011 5 BG2069 1 HL2 011 6 HL2 011 7 HL2 005 HL2 003 BG2066 BG2074 BG3004 BG3006A BG3006B BG3006D BG3009 RPM381 RPM384 RPM385 RPM405 RPM411 RPM407 RPM412 RPM408 RPM410 RPM415 RPM416 RPM418 RPM418 A RPM427 RPM431 RPM432 RPM444 RPM448 RPM445 RPM447 RPM452 and RPM202 and listed in Tables 4 and 5 or of their analogs that can be prepared by those of skill in the art. Under conditions where the compounds of the present invention are sufficiently basic or acidic to form stable nontoxic acid or base salts administration of the compounds as salts may be appropriate. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are organic acid addition salts formed with acids that form a physiological acceptable anion for example tosylate methanesulfonate acetate citrate malonate tartarate succinate benzoate ascorbate alpha ketoglutarate and alpha glycerophosphate. Suitable inorganic salts may also be formed including hydrochloride sulfate nitrate bicarbonate and carbonate salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds e.g. Stat3 inhibitors may be obtained using standard procedures well known in the art for example by reacting a sufficiently basic compound such as an amine with a suitable acid affording a physiologically acceptable anion. Alkali metal for example sodium potassium or lithium or alkaline earth metal for example calcium salts of carboxylic acids can also be made.

As used herein the term analogs refers to compounds which are substantially the same as another compound but which may have been modified by for example adding side groups oxidation or reduction of the parent structure. Analogs of the Stat3 inhibitors shown in e.g. NSC 74859 S3I 201 NSC 59263 and NSC 42067 NSC 42067 NSC 75912 NSC 11421 NSC 91529 and NSC 263435 and other compounds disclosed herein can be readily prepared using commonly known standard reactions. These standard reactions include but are not limited to hydrogenation alkylation acetylation and acidification reactions. Chemical modifications can be accomplished by those skilled in the art by protecting all functional groups present in the molecule and deprotecting them after carrying out the desired reactions using standard procedures known in the scientific literature Greene T. W. and Wuts P. G. M. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons Inc. New York. 3rd Ed. pg. 819 1999 Honda T. et al. 1997 7 1623 1628 Honda T. et al. 1998 8 2711 2714 Konoike T. et al. 1997 62 960 966 Honda T. et al. 2000 43 4233 4246 each of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety . Analogs exhibiting the desired biological activity such as induction of apoptosis cytotoxicity cytostaticity induction of cell cycle arrest etc. can be identified or confirmed using cellular assays or other in vitro or in vivo assays. For example assays that detect inhibition of Stat3 activation G M cell cycle arrest and or reduction of tumor growth may be utilized.

It will be appreciated that the compounds of the invention can contain one or more asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms i.e. carbon centers . The presence of one or more of the asymmetric centers in an analog of the invention can give rise to stereoisomers and in each case the invention is to be understood to extend to all such stereoisomers including enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures including racemic mixtures thereof.

Referring to Rand R if present can be an aliphatic or aromatic group X if present CO SO CONH or alkyl Z if present is alkyl and phosphate mimic that shown in e.g. COH SOH POH NO CHCOH CFCOH or CF COH tetrazole. Preferably Ris a hydrophobic group or part of a hydrophobic group. In one embodiment R if present is H alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl cylcoalkenyl heterocycloalkenyl acyl and aryl any of which may be optionally substituted and R if present is H alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl cylcoalkenyl heterocycloalkenyl acyl and aryl any of which may be optionally substituted. In a preferred embodiment R if present is aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl or alkyl and R if present is a hydrophobic group such as aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl or alkyl.

The term alkyl group is intended to mean a group of atoms derived from an alkane by the removal of one hydrogen atom. Thus the term includes straight or branched chain alkyl moieties including for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl and the like. Preferred alkyl groups contain from 1 to about 14 carbon atoms Calkyl .

The term aryl group is intended to mean a group derived from an aromatic hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen from the aromatic system. Preferred aryl groups contain phenyl or substituted phenyl groups. Thus the term aryl includes an aromatic carbocyclic radical having a single ring or two condensed rings. This term includes for example phenyl or naphthyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to aromatic ring systems of five or more atoms e.g. five to ten atoms of which at least one atom is selected from 0 N and S and includes for example furanyl thiophenyl pyridyl indolyl quinolyl and the like.

The term acyl group is intended to mean a group having the formula RCO wherein R is an alkyl group or an aryl group.

The term alkenyl refers to a straight or branched chain alkyl moiety having two or more carbon atoms e.g. two to six carbon atoms Calkenyl and having in addition one double bond of either E or Z stereochemistry where applicable. This term would include for example vinyl 1 propenyl 1 and 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl etc.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a saturated alicyclic moiety having three or more carbon atoms e.g. from three to six carbon atoms and which may be optionally benzofused at any available position. This term includes for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl indanyl and tetrahydronaphthyl.

The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a saturated heterocyclic moiety having three or more carbon atoms e.g. from three to six carbon atoms and one or more heteroatom from the group N O S or oxidized versions thereof and which may be optionally benzofused at any available position. This term includes for example azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl indolinyl and tetrahydroquinolinyl.

The term cycloalkenyl refers to an alicyclic moiety having three or more carbon atoms e.g. from three to six carbon atoms and having in addition one double bond. This term includes for example cyclopentenyl or cyclohexenyl.

The term heterocycloalkenyl refers to an alicyclic moiety having from three to six carbon atoms and one or more heteroatoms from the group N O S or oxides thereof and having in addition one double bond. This term includes for example dihydropyranyl.

The term optionally substituted means optionally substituted with one or more of the aforementioned groups e.g. alkyl aryl heteroaryl acyl alkenyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkenyl or halogen at any available position or positions.

Specifically alkyl can include for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl iso butyl sec butyl pentyl 3 pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl undecyl dodecyl tridecyl tetradecyl or pentadecyl alkenyl can include vinyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 pentenyl 4 pentenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 4 hexenyl 5 hexenyl 1 heptenyl 2 heptenyl 3 heptenyl 4 heptenyl 5 heptenyl 1 nonenyl 2 nonenyl 3 nonenyl 4 nonenyl 5 nonenyl 6 nonenyl 7 nonenyl 8 nonenyl 1 decenyl 2 decenyl 3 decenyl 4 decenyl 5 decenyl 6 decenyl 7 decenyl 8 decenyl 9 decenyl 1 undecenyl 2 undecenyl 3 undecenyl 4 undecenyl 5 undecenyl 6 undecenyl 7 undecenyl 8 undecenyl 9 undecenyl 10 undecenyl 1 dodecenyl 2 dodecenyl 3 dodecenyl 4 dodecenyl 5 dodecenyl 6 dodecenyl 7 dodecenyl 8 dodecenyl 9 dodecenyl 10 dodecenyl 11 dodecenyl 1 tridecenyl 2 tridecenyl 3 tridecenyl 4 tridecenyl 5 tridecenyl 6 tridecenyl 7 tridecenyl 8 tridecenyl 9 tridecenyl 10 tridecenyl 11 tridecenyl 12 tridecenyl 1 tetradecenyl 2 tetradecenyl 3 tetradecenyl 4 tetradecenyl 5 tetradecenyl 6 tetradecenyl 7 tetradecenyl 8 tetradecenyl 9 tetradecenyl 10 tetradecenyl 11 tetradecenyl 12 tetradecenyl 13 tetradeceny 1 pentadecenyl 2 pentadecenyl 3 pentadecenyl 4 pentadecenyl 5 pentadecenyl 6 pentadecenyl 7 pentadecenyl 8 pentadecenyl 9 pentadecenyl 10 pentadecenyl 11 pentadecenyl 12 pentadecenyl 13 pentadecenyl or 14 pentadecenyl alkoxy can include methoxy ethoxy propoxy isopropoxy butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy pentoxy 3 pentoxy hexoxy heptyloxy octyloxy nonyloxy decyloxy undecyloxy dodecyloxy tridecyloxy tetradecyloxy or pentadecyloxy alkanoyl can include acetyl propanoyl butanoyl pentanoyl hexanoyl heptanoyl octanoyl nonanoyl decanoyl undecanoyl dodecanoyl tridecanoyl tetradecanoyl or pentadecanoyl cycloalkyl can include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl or cyclooctyl for example aryl can include phenyl indenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydronaphthyl or naphthyl for example and heteroaryl can include furyl imidazolyl tetrazolyl pyridyl or its N oxide thienyl pyrimidinyl or its N oxide indolyl or quinolyl or its N oxide for example.

The compounds of the invention are useful for various non therapeutic and therapeutic purposes. The compounds e.g. Stat3 inhibitors may be used for reducing aberrant cell growth in animals and humans. Because of such anti proliferative properties of the compounds they are useful in reducing unwanted cell growth in a wide variety of settings including in vitro and in vivo. In addition to their use in treatment methods the Stat3 inhibitors of the invention are useful as agents for investigating the role of Stat3 in cellular metabolism and controlling Stat3 mediated malignant or non malignant cell growth in vitro or in vivo. They are also useful as standards and for teaching demonstrations.

Therapeutic application of the compounds and compositions comprising them can be accomplished by any suitable therapeutic method and technique presently or prospectively known to those skilled in the art. Further the compounds of the invention can be used as starting materials or intermediates for the preparation of other useful compounds and compositions.

Compounds of the invention e.g. Stat3 inhibitors may be locally administered at one or more anatomical sites such as sites of unwanted cell growth such as a tumor site e.g. injected or topically applied to the tumor optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as an inert diluent. Compounds of the invention may be systemically administered such as intravenously or orally optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier for oral delivery. They may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules may be compressed into tablets or may be incorporated directly with the food of the patient s diet. For oral therapeutic administration the active compound may be combined with one or more excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers aerosol sprays and the like.

The tablets troches pills capsules and the like may also contain the following binders such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose fructose lactose or aspartame or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring may be added. When the unit dosage form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene glycol. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the solid unit dosage form. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with gelatin wax shellac or sugar and the like. A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound sucrose or fructose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course any material used in preparing any unit dosage form should be pharmaceutically acceptable and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition the Stat3 inhibitor may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and devices.

The active agent compounds of the invention may also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by infusion or injection. Solutions of the active agent can be prepared in water optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols triacetin and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations can contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising the compounds of the invention which are adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or dispersions optionally encapsulated in liposomes. The ultimate dosage form should be sterile fluid and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The liquid carrier or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising for example water ethanol a polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycols and the like vegetable oils nontoxic glyceryl esters and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the formation of liposomes by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions or by the use of surfactants. Optionally the prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars buffers or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the inclusion of agents that delay absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the compounds of the invention in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filter sterilization. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient present in the previously sterile filtered solutions.

For topical administration the compounds may be applied in pure form i.e. when they are liquids. However it will generally be desirable to administer them topically to the skin as compositions in combination with a dermatologically acceptable carrier which may be a solid or a liquid.

The compounds of the subject invention can be applied topically to a subject s skin to reduce the size and may include complete removal of malignant or benign growths. The compounds of the invention can be applied directly to the growth. Preferably the compound is applied to the growth in a formulation such as an ointment cream lotion solution tincture or the like. Drug delivery systems for delivery of pharmacological substances to dermal lesions can also be used such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 167 649 Zook .

Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc clay microcrystalline cellulose silica alumina and the like. Useful liquid carriers include water alcohols or glycols or water alcohol glycol blends in which the Stat3 inhibitor can be dissolved or dispersed at effective levels optionally with the aid of non toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such as fragrances and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for a given use. The resultant liquid compositions can be applied from absorbent pads used to impregnate bandages and other dressings or sprayed onto the affected area using pump type or aerosol sprayers for example.

Thickeners such as synthetic polymers fatty acids fatty acid salts and esters fatty alcohols modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid carriers to form spreadable pastes gels ointments soaps and the like for application directly to the skin of the user. Examples of useful dermatological compositions which can be used to deliver the Stat3 inhibitors to the skin are disclosed in Jacquet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 608 392 Geria U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 478 Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 157 and Woltzman U.S. Pat. No. 4 820 508 .

Useful dosages of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity and in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice and other animals to humans are known to the art for example see U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 949.

Accordingly the present invention includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the invention in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutical compositions adapted for oral topical or parenteral administration comprising an amount of a compound of the invention constitute a preferred embodiment of the invention. The dose administered to a patient particularly a human in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to achieve a therapeutic response in the patient over a reasonable time frame without lethal toxicity and preferably causing no more than an acceptable level of side effects or morbidity. One skilled in the art will recognize that dosage will depend upon a variety of factors including the condition health of the subject the body weight of the subject kind of concurrent treatment if any frequency of treatment therapeutic ratio as well as the severity and stage of the pathological condition.

Depending upon the disorder or disease condition to be treated a suitable dose s may be that amount that will reduce proliferation or growth of the target cell s . In the context of cancer a suitable dose s is that which will result in a concentration of the active agent the compound of the invention in cancer tissue such as a malignant tumor which is known to achieve the desired response. The preferred dosage is the amount which results in maximum inhibition of cancer cell growth without unmanageable side effects. Administration of a compound of the invention can be continuous or at distinct intervals as can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

To provide for the administration of such dosages for the desired therapeutic treatment in some embodiments pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can comprise between about 0.1 and 45 and especially 1 and 15 by weight of the total of one or more of the compounds of the invention based on the weight of the total composition including carrier or diluents. Illustratively dosage levels of the administered active ingredients can be intravenous 0.01 to about 20 mg kg intraperitoneal 0.01 to about 100 mg kg subcutaneous 0.01 to about 100 mg kg intramuscular 0.01 to about 100 mg kg orally 0.01 to about 200 mg kg and preferably about 1 to 100 mg kg intranasal instillation 0.01 to about 20 mg kg and aerosol 0.01 to about 20 mg kg of animal body weight.

Mammalian species which benefit from the disclosed methods include but are not limited to primates such as apes chimpanzees orangutans humans monkeys domesticated animals e.g. pets such as dogs cats guinea pigs hamsters Vietnamese pot bellied pigs rabbits and ferrets domesticated farm animals such as cows buffalo bison horses donkey swine sheep and goats exotic animals typically found in zoos such as bear lions tigers panthers elephants hippopotamus rhinoceros giraffes antelopes sloth gazelles zebras wildebeests prairie dogs koala bears kangaroo opossums raccoons pandas hyena seals sea lions elephant seals otters porpoises dolphins and whales. Other species that may benefit from the disclosed methods include fish amphibians avians and reptiles. As used herein the terms patient and subject are used interchangeably and are intended to include such human and non human species. Likewise in vitro methods of the present invention can be carried out on cells of such human and non human species.

Patients in need of treatment using the methods of the present invention can be identified using standard techniques known to those in the medical or veterinary professions as appropriate.

As used herein the terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. The cancer may be multi drug resistant MDR or drug sensitive. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia. More particular examples of such cancers include breast cancer prostate cancer colon cancer squamous cell cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer cervical cancer ovarian cancer peritoneal cancer liver cancer e.g. hepatic carcinoma bladder cancer colorectal cancer endometrial carcinoma kidney cancer and thyroid cancer.

Other non limiting examples of cancers are basal cell carcinoma biliary tract cancer bone cancer brain and CNS cancer choriocarcinoma connective tissue cancer esophageal cancer eye cancer cancer of the head and neck gastric cancer intra epithelial neoplasm larynx cancer lymphoma including Hodgkin s and Non Hodgkin s lymphoma melanoma myeloma neuroblastoma oral cavity cancer e.g. lip tongue mouth and pharynx retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma rectal cancer cancer of the respiratory system sarcoma skin cancer stomach cancer testicular cancer uterine cancer cancer of the urinary system as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas. Examples of cancer types that may potentially be treated using the Stat3 inhibitors of the present invention are also listed in Table 1.

As used herein the term tumor refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation whether malignant or benign and all pre cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues. For example a particular cancer may be characterized by a solid mass tumor. The solid tumor mass if present may be a primary tumor mass. A primary tumor mass refers to a growth of cancer cells in a tissue resulting from the transformation of a normal cell of that tissue. In most cases the primary tumor mass is identified by the presence of a cyst which can be found through visual or palpation methods or by irregularity in shape texture or weight of the tissue. However some primary tumors are not palpable and can be detected only through medical imaging techniques such as X rays e.g. mammography or magnetic resonance imaging MRI or by needle aspirations. The use of these latter techniques is more common in early detection. Molecular and phenotypic analysis of cancer cells within a tissue can usually be used to confirm if the cancer is endogenous to the tissue or if the lesion is due to metastasis from another site. The treatment methods of the invention can be utilized for early middle or late stage disease and acute or chronic disease. In some embodiments the tumor is characterized as one exhibiting aberrant activation of Stat3.

According to the method of the subject invention a compound of the invention can be administered to a patient by itself or co administered with one or more other agents such as another compound of the invention or a different agent or agents. Co administration can be carried out simultaneously in the same or separate formulations or consecutively. Furthermore according to the method of the subject invention compounds of the invention can be administered to a patient as adjuvant therapy. For example compounds can be administered to a patient in conjunction with chemotherapy.

Thus the compounds of the invention whether administered separately or as a pharmaceutical composition can include various other components as additives. Examples of acceptable components or adjuncts which can be employed in relevant circumstances include antioxidants free radical scavenging agents peptides growth factors antibiotics bacteriostatic agents immunosuppressives anticoagulants buffering agents anti inflammatory agents anti angiogenics anti pyretics time release binders anesthetics steroids and corticosteroids. Such components can provide additional therapeutic benefit act to affect the therapeutic action of the compounds of the invention or act towards preventing any potential side effects which may be posed as a result of administration of the compounds. The Stat3 inhibitors of the subject invention can be conjugated to a therapeutic agent as well.

Additional agents that can be co administered to target cells in vitro or in vivo such as in a patient in the same or as a separate formulation include those that modify a given biological response such as immunomodulators. For example proteins such as tumor necrosis factor TNF interferon such as alpha interferon and beta interferon nerve growth factor NGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF and tissue plasminogen activator can be administered. Biological response modifiers such as lymphokines interleukins such as interleukin 1 IL 1 interleukin 2 IL 2 and interleukin 6 IL 6 granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF or other growth factors can be administered. In one embodiment the methods and compositions of the invention incorporate one or more agents selected from the group consisting of anti cancer agents cytotoxic agents chemotherapeutic agents anti signaling agents and anti angiogenic agents.

1. An isolated compound having the structure of S3I 201 shown in NSC 59263 shown in NSC 42067 shown in Formula A shown in Formula B shown in Formula C shown in Formula D shown in Formula E shown in Formula F shown in NSC 75912 shown in NSC 11421 shown in NSC 91529 shown in NSC 263435 shown in HL2 006 1 shown in HL2 006 2 shown in HL2 006 3 shown in HL2 006 4 shown in HL2 006 5 shown in HL2 011 1 shown in HL2 011 2 shown in HL2 011 3 shown in HL2 011 4 shown in HL2 011 5 shown in BG2069 1 shown in HL2 011 6 shown in HL2 011 7 shown in HL2 005 shown in HL2 003 shown in BG2066 shown in BG2074 shown in BG3004 shown in BG3006A shown in BG3006B shown in BG3006D shown in BG3009 shown in RPM381 shown in RPM384 shown in RPM385 shown in RPM405 shown in RPM411 shown in RPM407 shown in RPM412 shown in RPM408 shown in RPM410 shown in RPM415 shown in RPM416 shown in RPM418 shown in RPM418 A shown in RPM427 shown in RPM431 shown in RPM432 shown in RPM444 shown in RPM448 shown in RPM445 shown in RPM447 shown in RPM452 shown in RPM202 shown in a compound listed in Table 4 a compound listed in Table 5 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or analog of any of the foregoing.

2. A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one isolated compound selected from selected from embodiment 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

5. The composition of any of embodiments 2 4 further comprising an agent selected from the group consisting of an antioxidant free radical scavenging agent peptide growth factor antibiotic bacteriostatic agent immunosuppressive anticoagulant buffering agent anti inflammatory agent anti angiogenic agent anti pyretic time release binder anesthetic steroid and corticosteroid.

7. A method of treating a proliferation disorder in a subject comprising administering an effective amount of at least one compound of embodiment 1 to the subject.

8. The method of embodiment 7 wherein said administering comprising administering an effective amount of S3I 201 to the subject.

10. The method of any of embodiments 7 9 wherein the compound is administered locally at the site of a tumor.

11. The method of any of embodiments 7 10 wherein the proliferation disorder is cancer and wherein the subject is suffering from a tumor and the compound inhibits growth of the tumor.

12. The method of embodiment 7 or 8 wherein the proliferation disorder is a non malignant disease characterized by aberrant Stat3 activation of cells.

13. The method of any of embodiments 7 12 wherein the compound is administered locally at the site of the proliferation disorder.

14. The method of any of embodiments 7 9 wherein the subject is not suffering from the proliferation disorder and wherein the compound is administered to delay onset of the proliferation disorder.

15. The method of any of embodiments 7 14 wherein the route of administration is selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular oral and intra nasal.

18. The method of any of embodiments 7 13 or 15 17 further comprising identifying the subject as one suffering from the proliferation disorder.

19. The method of embodiment 8 wherein the subject is suffering from a tumor and wherein said administering comprises administering S3I 201 at the site of the tumor.

20. A method of suppressing the growth of or inducing apoptosis in malignant cells the method comprising contacting the cells with an effective amount of at least one compound of embodiment 1.

24. The method of any of embodiments 20 23 wherein the cells consist essentially of human breast cancer cells.

25. The method of any of embodiments 20 24 wherein said contacting comprises contacting the cells with an effective amount of S3I 201.

26. A method of inhibiting constitutive activation of Stat3 in cells comprising contacting the cells with an effective amount of at least one compound of embodiment 1.

29. The method of embodiment 27 or 28 wherein said contacting comprises contacting the cells with an effective amount of S3I 201.

31. The method of any of embodiments 26 30 wherein the cells consist essentially of human breast cancer cells.

32. A method of preventing Stat3 dimerization in a mammalian cell the method comprising contacting the cell with an effective amount of at least compound of embodiment 1.

33. The method of embodiment 32 wherein said contacting comprises contacting the cell with an effective amount of S3I 201.

34. A method of disrupting Stat3 DNA binding or Stat5 DNA binding the method comprising contacting the Stat3 or Stat5 with an effective amount of at least one compound of embodiment 1.

35. The method of embodiment 34 wherein said contacting comprises contacting the Stat3 or Stat5 with an effective amount of S3I 201.

36. An in vitro screening test for presence of malignant cells in a mammalian tissue the test comprising 

37. The screening test of embodiment 36 wherein said treating comprising contacting the cells with S3I 201.

38. A method of identifying inhibitors of constitutive Stat3 activation Stat3 DNA binding Stat5 DNA binding and or Stat3 dimerization the method comprising selecting a compound having a structure of Formula A B C D E or F shown in D and determining whether the compound inhibits constitutive Stat3 activation disrupts Stat3 DNA binding disrupts Stat5 DNA binding prevents Stat3 dimerization or determining two or more of the foregoing.

40. A method of identifying anti cancer agents the method comprising selecting a compound having a structure of Formulas A B C D E or F shown in D and determining whether the compound inhibits the growth of cancer cells in vitro or in vivo.

Assays known in the art and or disclosed herein may be used to evaluate cell apoptosis and or inhibition of Stat signaling in carrying out the in vitro screening test and methods set forth in the above embodiments such as assays for inhibition of dimerization see for example Schust J. Berg T. 2004 330 1 114 118 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and assays for inhibition of DNA binding see for example Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 48 45443 45455 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety . Likewise such assays may be used to confirm the desired biological activity possessed by analogs of the invention.

As used herein the terms treat or treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer or other proliferation disorder. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. For example treatment with a compound of the invention may include reduction of undesirable cell proliferation and or induction of apoptosis and cytotoxicity. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented or onset delayed. Optionally the patient may be identified e.g. diagnosed as one suffering from the disease or condition e.g. proliferation disorder prior to administration of the Stat3 inhibitor of the invention.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of the compound of the invention or other agent e.g. a drug effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In the case of cancer or other proliferation disorder the therapeutically effective amount of the agent may reduce i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop unwanted cellular proliferation reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth reduce Stat3 signaling in the target cells such as by inhibiting the binding of DNA and Stat3 and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the administered compound prevents growth of and or kills existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

As used herein the term growth inhibitory amount of the compound of the invention refers to an amount which inhibits growth or proliferation of a target cell such as a tumor cell either in vitro or in vivo irrespective of the mechanism by which cell growth is inhibited e.g. by cytostatic properties cytotoxic properties etc. . In a preferred embodiment the growth inhibitory amount inhibits i.e. slows to some extent and preferably stops proliferation or growth of the target cell in vivo or in cell culture by greater than about 20 preferably greater than about 50 most preferably greater than about 75 e.g. from about 75 to about 100 .

The terms cell and cells are used interchangeably herein and are intended to include either a single cell or a plurality of cells in vitro or in vivo unless otherwise specified.

As used herein the term anti cancer agent refers to a substance or treatment that inhibits the function of cancer cells inhibits their formation and or causes their destruction in vitro or in vivo. Examples include but are not limited to cytotoxic agents e.g. 5 fluorouracil TAXOL chemotherapeutic agents and anti signaling agents e.g. the PI3K inhibitor LY . In some embodiments the anti cancer agent is a ras antagonist.

As used herein the term cytotoxic agent refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells in vitro and or in vivo. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P and radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin and antibodies including fragments and or variants thereof.

As used herein the term chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer such as for example taxanes e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB Oncology Princeton N.J. and doxetaxel TAXOTERE Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chlorambucil vincristine vinblastine anti estrogens including for example tamoxifen raloxifene aromatase inhibiting 4 5 imidazoles 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and toremifene FARESTON GTx Memphis Tenn. and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin etc. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents that may be used in conjunction with the compounds of the invention are listed in Table 2. In a preferred embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is one or more anthracyclines. Anthracyclines are a family of chemotherapy drugs that are also antibiotics. The anthracyclines act to prevent cell division by disrupting the structure of the DNA and terminate its function by 1 intercalating into the base pairs in the DNA minor grooves and 2 causing free radical damage of the ribose in the DNA. The anthracyclines are frequently used in leukemia therapy. Examples of anthracyclines include daunorubicin CERUBIDINE doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN RUBEX epirubicin ELLENCE PHARMORUBICIN and idarubicin IDAMYCIN .

As used herein the term Stat refers to signal transducers and activators of transcription which represent a family of proteins that when activated by protein tyrosine kinases in the cytoplasm of the cell migrate to the nucleus and activate gene transcription. Examples of mammalian STATs include STAT 1 STAT2 STAT3 STAT4 STAT5a STAT5b and STATE.

As used herein the term signaling and signaling transduction represents the biochemical process involving transmission of extracellular stimuli via cell surface receptors through a specific and sequential series of molecules to genes in the nucleus resulting in specific cellular responses to the stimuli.

As used herein the term constitutive activation as in the constitutive activation of the STAT pathway refers to a condition where there is an abnormally elevated level of tyrosine phosphorylated STAT3 within a given cell s e.g. cancer cells as compared to a corresponding normal e.g. non cancer or non transformed cell. Constitutive activation of STAT3 has been exhibited in a large variety of malignancies including for example breast carcinoma cell lines primary breast tumor specimens ovarian cancer cell lines and tumors multiple myeloma tumor specimens and blood malignancies such as acute myelogenous leukemia as described in published PCT international application WO 00 44774 Jove R. et al. the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Methods for determining whether a human or non human mammalian subject has abnormally high levels of constitutively activated Stat3 are known in the art and are described for example in U.S. patent publication 2004 0138189 A1 and PCT publication 02 078617 A each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Optionally the methods of the invention further comprise identifying a patient suffering from a condition e.g. cancer associated with an abnormally elevated level of tyrosine phosphorylated STAT3 or determining whether the cancer cells can be characterized as having abnormally elevated levels of tyrosine phosphorylated Stat3.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug is intended to describe any pharmaceutically acceptable form such as an ester phosphate ester salt of an ester or a related group of a compound of the invention which upon administration to a subject provides the mature or base compound e.g. a Stat3 inhibitory compound . Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic bases and acids. Suitable salts include those derived from alkali metals such as potassium and sodium alkaline earth metals such as calcium and magnesium among numerous other acids well known in the pharmaceutical art. Pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs refer to a compound that is metabolized for example hydrolyzed or oxidized in the host to form the compound of the present invention. Typical examples of prodrugs include compounds that have biologically labile protecting groups on a functional moiety of the active compound. Prodrugs include compounds that can be oxidized reduced aminated deaminated hydroxylated dehydroxylated hydrolyzed dehydrolyzed alkylated dealkylated acylated deacylated phosphorylated dephosphorylated to produce the active compound.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable esters as used herein unless otherwise specified includes those esters of one or more compounds which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of hosts without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like are commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and are effective for their intended use.

The terms comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of are defined according to their standard meaning. The terms may be substituted for one another throughout the instant application in order to attach the specific meaning associated with each term.

The terms isolated or biologically pure refer to material that is substantially or essentially free from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its native state.

As used in this specification the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a compound includes more than one such compound. A reference to a Stat3 inhibitor includes more than one such inhibitor and so forth.

The practice of the present invention can employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology microbiology recombinant DNA technology electrophysiology and pharmacology that are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature see e.g. Sambrook Fritsch Maniatis Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Second Edition 1989 DNA Cloning Vols. I and II D. N. Glover Ed. 1985 Perbal B. A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning 1984 the series Methods In Enzymology S. Colowick and N. Kaplan Eds. Academic Press Inc. Transcription and Translation Hames et al. Eds. 1984 Gene Transfer Vectors For Mammalian Cells J. H. Miller et al. Eds. 1987 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. Scopes Protein Purification Principles and Practice 2nd ed. Springer Verlag and PCR A Practical Approach McPherson et al. Eds. 1991 IRL Press each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Following are examples that illustrate materials methods and procedures for practicing the invention. The examples are illustrative and should not be construed as limiting.

Normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 and their counterparts transformed by v Src NIH3T3 v Src v Ras NIH3T3 v Ras or overexpressing the human EGF receptor NIH3T3 hEGFR and the human breast cancer MDA MB 231 MDA MB 435 MDA MB 453 and MDA MB 468 cells have all been previously reported Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Yu C. L. et al. 1995 269 81 83 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 Johnson P. J. et al. 1985 5 1073 1083 . Cells were grown in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM containing 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum. Antibodies C 136 and E23X for Stat1 C20 and C20X for Stat3 and L 20 and L 20X for Stat5A were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. and polyclonal anti Src and anti phosphoSrc antibodies from Cell Signaling Technology Danvers Mass.

Twelve to twenty four hours following seeding normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 were transiently co transfected with 4 g each of pLucTKS3 pLucSRE or Casein Luc and 4 g pMvSrc and 100 ng galactosidase for normalizing or the human breast carcinoma MDA MB 231 cells were transiently transfected with pRc CMV Stat3C kindly provided by J. Bromberg and J. Darnell Bromberg J. F. et al. 1999 98 295 303 or with FLAG tagged N terminus of Stat3 Stat3 NT or FLAG tagged Stat3 SH2 domain ST3 SH2 Zhang T. et al. 2002 277 17556 175563 or mock transfected for 4 hours using Lipofectamine plus Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and following the manufacturer s protocol. Twenty four hours after transfection cells were untreated 0.05 DMSO or treated with S3I 201 100 M for an additional 24 hours harvested and cytosolic extracts prepared for luciferase assay as previously done Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 or cells were analyzed by Annexin V binding and Flow Cytometry.

Cytosolic extract preparation from mammalian cells for luciferase and gal assays and from recombinant baculovirus infected Sf9 cells to obtain Stat1 Stat3 and Stat5 monomers and Src proteins are as described previously Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 Zhang Y. et al. 2000 275 24935 24944 . Luciferase assays were done according to the supplier s Promega Madison Wis. manual and measured with a luminometer. gal assays were performed on lysates from transfected cells as previously reported Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 .

Nuclear extract preparations and electrophoretic mobility shift assay EMSA were carried out as previously described Yu C. L. et al. 1995 269 81 83 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 . The P labeled oligonucleotide probes used were hSIE high affinity sis inducible element from the c fos gene m67 variant 5 AGCTTCATTTCCCGTAAATCCCTA SEQ ID NO 3 that binds Stat1 and Stat3 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 Wagner M. et al. 1999 19 370 376 and MGFe mammary gland factor element from the bovine casein gene promoter 5 AGATTTCTAGGAATTCAA SEQ ID NO 4 for Stat1 and Stat5 binding Gouilleux F. et al. 1995 136 5700 5708 Seidel H. M. et al. 1995 92 3041 3045 . Except where indicated nuclear extracts were pre incubated with compound for 30 minutes at room temperature prior to incubation with the radiolabeled probe. Bands corresponding to DNA binding activities were scanned and quantified for each concentration of compound and plotted as percent of control vehicle against concentration of compound from which the ICvalues were derived as previously reported Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 .

Whole cell lysates and tumor tissue lysates from pulverized tumor tissue were prepared in boiling SDS sample loading buffer to extract total proteins as previously described Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 1533 1542 Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 . For IP lysates were prepared from NIH3T3 v Src mouse fibroblasts overexpressing the FLAG tagged Stat3 FLAG ST3 and Stat3 YFP in the IP buffer 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.2 150 mM NaCl 25 mM NaF 0.5 mM Na orthovanadate 20 mM PNPP 1 mM benzamidine 1 mM DTT 1 Triton X 100 2 g ml aprotinin 2 leupeptin 1 pepstatin 100 g ml PMSF . FLAG ST3 and Stat3 YFP were then immunoprecipitated by adding monoclonal anti FLAG M2 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. or anti YFP Santa Cruz antibody and incubating at 4 C. overnight with gentle rocking Protein A G PLUS Agarose Santa Cruz was added at 1 10 and incubated with rocking for 3 hours at 4 C. and centrifuged at 14 000 rpm at 4 C. for 30 seconds. Bead pellets were washed 5 in the IP buffer equivalent volume of 3 SDS sample loading buffer added vortexed and boiled for 5 minutes. Equivalent amounts of total protein were electrophoresed on an SDS 7.5 15 polyacrylamide gel and transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. Probing of nitrocellulose membranes with primary antibodies and detection of horseradish peroxidase conjugated secondary antibodies by enhanced chemiluminescence Amersham Piscataway N.J. were performed as described previously Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 . The probes used were anti cyclin D1 anti Bcl xL anti phosphoTyr Stat3 anti phospho Shc anti Survivin anti Erk1 2 anti phosphoTyr 4G10 clone and anti actin Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. anti Stat3 anti Stat5A and anti pErk1 2 Santa Cruz anti Src Cell Signaling Technology anti FLAG M2 Sigma and anti YFP Santa Cruz .

In vitro ELISA study involving the Lck SH2 GST protein and the conjugate pTyr peptide biotinyl Ac EPQpYEEIEL OH SEQ ID NO 2 Bachem Bioscience PA was performed as previously described Lee T. R. and Lawrence D. S. 2000 43 1173 1179 . Briefly 100 l of biotinyl Ac EPQpYEEIEL OH Bachem in 50 mM Tris 150 mM NaCl pH 7.5 was added to each well of a streptavidin coated 96 well microtiter plates Pierce Rockford Ill. and incubated with shaking at 4 C. overnight. Then plates were rinsed with PBS Tween 20 and then two times with 200 l of BSA T PBS 0.2 BSA 0.1 Tween 20 PBS . Then 50 l of Lck SH2 GST Santa Cruz Biotechnology fusion protein 6.4 ng ml in BSA T PBS was added to each well of the 96 well plate in the presence and absence of 50 l of S3I 201 for 30 and 100 M final concentrations and the plate was shaken at room temperature for 4 hours. After solutions were removed each well was rinsed four times with BSA T PBS 200 l and 100 l polyclonal rabbit anti GST antibody CHEMICON Temecula Calif. 100 ng ml in BSA T PBS was added to each well incubated at 4 C. overnight. Following washing with BSA T PBS 100 l of 200 ng ml BSA T PBS horseradish peroxidase conjugated mouse anti rabbit antibody Amersham Biosciences was added to each well and incubated for 45 minutes at room temperature. After 4 washing steps each with BSA T PBS and 3 washing steps each with PBS T 100 l of peroxidase substrate 1 Step Turbo B ELISA Pierce was added to each well and incubated for 5 15 minutes. Peroxidase reaction was stopped by adding 100 l 1M sulfuric acid solution and absorbance was read at 450 nm with an ELISA plate reader.

Colony formation assays were carried out in 6 well dishes as described previously Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 . Briefly each well contained 1.5 ml of 1 agarose in Dulbeco s modified Eagle s medium as the bottom layer and 1.5 ml of 0.5 agarose in Dulbeco s modified Eagle s medium containing 4000 or 6000 NIH3T3 v Src or NIH3T3 v Ras fibroblasts respectively as the top layer. Treatment with S3I 201 was initiated 1 day after seeding cells by adding 100 l of medium with or without S3I 201 and repeating every 3 days until large colonies were evident. Colonies were quantified by staining with 20 l of 1 mg ml iodonitrotetrazolium violet incubating at 37 C. overnight and counting the next day.

Proliferating cells were treated with or without S3I 201 for up to 48 hours. In some cases cells were first transfected with Stat3C ST3 NT or ST3 SH2 domain or mock transfected for 24 hours prior to treatment with compound for an additional 24 48 hours. Cells were then detached and analyzed by Annexin V binding BD Biosciences San Diego according to the manufacturer s protocol and Flow Cytometry to quantify the percent apoptosis.

Six week old female athymic nude mice were purchased from Harlan Indianapolis Ind. and maintained in the institutional animal facilities approved by the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care. Athymic nude mice were injected in the left flank area s.c. with 5 10human breast cancer MDA MB 231 cells in 100 L of PBS. After 5 to 10 days tumors with a diameter of 3 mm were established. Animals were given S3I 201 i.v. at 5 mg kg every 2 or 3 days for two weeks and monitored every 2 or 3 days. Animals were stratified so that the mean tumor sizes in all treatment were nearly identical. Tumor volume was calculated according to the formula V 0.52 a b where a smallest superficial diameter b largest superficial diameter.

It should be understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application.

The computational modeling and virtual screening study used the GLIDE Grid based Ligand Docking from Energetics software Friesner R. et al. 2004 47 1739 1749 Halgren T. et al. 2004 47 1750 1759 available from Schr dinger L.L.C. for the docking simulations and relied on the X ray crystal structure of the Stat3 homodimer bound to DNA Becker S. et al. 1998 394 145 151 determined at 2.25 resolution 1BG1 in the Protein Databank . The modeling approach was used as a platform for structure based virtual high throughput screening of the chemical libraries of the NCI Diversity Set 2 400 3D structures and the NCI Plated Set 151 000 3D structures . For the virtual screening DNA was removed and only one of the two monomers was employed see . To validate the docking approach the native pTyr peptide APY LKT SEQ ID NO 1 was extracted from the crystal structure of one of the monomers and docked to the other monomer whereby GLIDE produced a docking mode that closely resembled the X ray crystal structure data not shown . Three dimensional structures of compounds from the NCI s chemical libraries were downloaded from the NCI DTP website and processed with LigPrep available from Schr dinger L.L.C. to produce 2 392 3D structures for the Diversity Set and 150 829 3D structures for the Plated Set. Then GLIDE 2.7 SP Standard Precision mode docked each chemical structure for small molecule into the pTyr peptide binding site within the SH2 domain of the monomer in order to obtain the best docking mode and docking score.

For stronger interactions of small molecules within the Stat3 SH2 domain relative to the native pTyr peptide emphasis is placed on maintaining the critical atomic contacts that make the greatest contribution to the overall binding free energy. Strong hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions within the SH2 domain are observed for compounds identified with good docking scores which will be predicted to be strong binders to Stat3 and potent Stat3 inhibitors. The best score observed from the docking studies was 11.7 kcal mol relative to the native phosphopeptide sequence APY LKT SEQ ID NO 1 scored as 11.9 kcal mol . Typically compounds receiving highly favorable scores more negative values have structural features that include sulfonyl carboxyl and hydroxyl functional groups. For example the current hit S3I 201 NSC 74859 contains all 3 groups and from the modeling data the carboxylate moiety of S3I 201 is predicted to interact with Ser613 Ser611 and Arg609 whereas the phenolic hydroxyl group interacts with Lys591 of the phosphotyrosine binding site of the Stat3 SH2 domain.

The best scoring compounds from the virtual screening studies were selected for experimental analysis using an in vitro Stat3 DNA binding assay. Nuclear extracts containing activated STATs were incubated for 30 minutes with or without increasing concentrations of compounds prior to incubation with the radiolabeled hSIE probe that binds to Stat1 and to Stat3 or the MGFe probe that binds to Stat1 and to Stat5 and subjected to EMSA analysis as described under Materials and Methods . Results for the confirmed hit S3I 201 show differential inhibition of DNA binding activities of STATs. left panel shows potent inhibition of Stat3 DNA binding activity by S3I 201 with an average ICvalue of 86 33 M Table 3 . For selectivity against STAT family members nuclear extract preparations from EGF stimulated mouse fibroblasts over expressing the human epidermal growth factor receptor NIH3T3 hEGFR containing activated Stat1 Stat3 and Stat5 were pre incubated with or without S3I 201 prior to incubation with the radiolabeled probes as described in Materials and Methods . EMSA analysis of the DNA binding activities shows Stat3 Stat3 upper Stat1 Stat3 intermediate and Stat1 Stat1 lower bands of complexes with the hSIE probe and Stat5 Stat5 upper and Stat1 Stat1 lower bands of complexes with the MGFe probe . S3I 201 preferentially inhibits Stat3 DNA binding activity over that of Stat1 and inhibits that of Stat5 with a 2 fold less potency and Table 3 . The appearance of different degrees of activity of S3I 201 at 300 M is due to the fact that different nuclear extract preparations were used one from the v Src transformed mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 v Src containing only activated Stat3 and the other from the EGF stimulated NIHT3T3 hEGFR that contains activated Stat1 Stat3 and Stat5 . Supershift analysis with anti Stat3 antibody shows protein hSIE complex contains Stat3 while use of anti Stat1 antibody or anti Stat5 antibody confirms protein MGFe complexes contain Stat1 or Stat5 respectively . These studies have identified S3I 201 from the NCI chemical libraries as a potential binder within the Stat3 SH2 domain and an inhibitor of Stat3 activation. S3I 201 shows 2 fold preference for Stat3 over Stat5 and greater than 3 fold preference over Stat1 and Table 3 .

Based on the computational modeling S3I 201 is predicted to interact with the SH2 domain of Stat3 thereby inhibiting active Stat3 DNA binding activity see . To provide experimental data in support of S3I 201 s binding to Stat3 the present inventors investigated whether unphosphorylated inactive Stat3 monomer could interfere with the inhibitory effect of S3I 201 on active Stat3 DNA binding inactive Stat3 monomer will interfere with the inhibitory activity of S3I 201 if it interacts with the compound . To make this determination cell lysates of unphosphorylated inactive Stat3 monomer protein prepared from Sf 9 insect cells infected with only baculovirus containing Stat3 as previously described Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 1533 1542 Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 and cell lysates of activated Stat3 dimer protein were mixed together and the mixture was pre incubated with S3I 201 for 30 minutes prior to incubation with the radiolabeled hSIE probe and EMSA analysis as was previously done in . The unphosphorylated inactive Stat3 monomer by itself had no significant effect on DNA binding activity of activated Stat3 compare lane 2 to lane 1 as inactive Stat3 monomer is incapable of binding DNA Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 . Consistent with results in pre incubation of activated Stat3 lysates with 100 M S3I 201 completely inhibited Stat3 DNA binding activity lanes 3 and 4 . By contrast the presence of inactive Stat3 monomer diminished the inhibitory effect of S3I 201 on the activated Stat3 in a dose dependent manner resulting in the recovery of the active Stat3 DNA binding activity lanes 5 7 . The Stat3 DNA binding activity that was otherwise inhibited lanes 3 and 4 was partially or completely restored in the presence of 4 or 5 l of inactive Stat3 lysates respectively lanes 6 and 7 . Therefore while the inactive Stat3 monomer protein is unable to bind DNA it is capable of interacting with S3I 201 by virtue of its SH2 domain. In turn this interaction reduces the concentration of S3I 201 that is available to inhibit the activated Stat3. These findings support the S3I 201 Stat3 interaction which is consistent with the predictions from the computational modeling and suggest the interaction is independent of the activation status of Stat3. To determine whether unphosphorylated inactive Stat1 or Stat5 monomer or the unrelated Src protein with a SH2 domain would have effect on S3I 201 similar studies were performed using independently prepared cell lysates from Sf 9 insect cells infected with only the baculovirus containing either Stat1 Stat5 or Src as the present inventors have previously reported Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 1533 1542 Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 and containing either of these proteins. In contrast to the effect observed with the inactive Stat3 monomer lanes 5 to 7 EMSA analysis shows the presence of inactive Stat1 Stat5 or Src lysate induces no significant recovery of Stat3 DNA binding activity lanes 8 to 10 11 to 13 and 14 to 16 . In the case of the Stat1 monomer lysate minimal recovery of Stat3 DNA binding activity is observed lane 10 which is evidence of a weak interaction of the Stat1 protein with S3I 201 as revealed in the initial evaluation . Compared to the effect of inactive Stat3 monomer lysates the minimal to no effect of inactive Stat1 or Stat5 monomer or the unrelated Src lysate suggests selective interaction of Stat3 with S3I 201 presumably through its SH2 domain. The amounts of proteins for each of Stat1 Stat3 or Stat5 monomer or the Src lysate used in these studies was determined by SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis to be nearly similar lanes 17 to 20 .

To further confirm the interaction of S3I 201 with Stat3 and to demonstrate that it blocks Stat3 Stat3 dimerization in intact cells Stat3 pull down assays involving two differently tagged Stat3 proteins FLAG tagged Stat3 FLAG ST3 and Stat3 YFP expressed in cells were performed. Viral Src transformed NIH3T3 v Src mouse fibroblasts stably expressing Stat3 YFP were transiently transfected with FLAG ST3 and treated either with 0.05 DMSO control or with S31 201 for 24 hours and then subjected to pull down assay using anti FLAG or anti YFP antibody and SDS PAGE. Analysis by Western blot for FLAG of whole cell lysates shows equal expression of the FLAG ST3 protein in the lysates in the transiently transfected cells in both the control DMSO treated and S3I 201 treated cells . Western blot analysis probing with anti FLAG antibody of the Stat3 YFP immunoprecipitates shows the presence of FLAG ST3 protein in the pulled down lysate from control cells left panel upper lane 1 suggesting Stat3 YFP and FLAG ST3 proteins were pulled down together as a complex. By contrast Western blot analysis probing with anti FLAG antibody shows no detectable level of FLAG ST3 protein in the Stat3 YFP immunoprecipitates from S3I 201 treated cells left panel upper lane 2 vs. lane 1 suggesting the disruption by S3I 201 of the complex formation between Stat3 YFP and FLAG ST3 proteins. The amounts of Stat3 YFP in the immunoprecipitates are shown lower left panel . Similarly Western blot analysis probing with anti YFP antibody of the FLAG ST3 immunoprecipitates shows Stat3 YFP present in the pulled down lysate from the 0.05 DMSO treated control cells right panel lower lane 3 but significantly reduced in the FLAG ST3 immunoprecipitates from the S3I 201 treated cells right panel lower lane 4 vs. lane 3 . These findings suggest FLAG ST3 Stat3 YFP complex is strongly formed in the control cells but is significantly diminished in the S3I 201 treated cells. The FLAG ST3 protein amounts in the immunoprecipitates are shown upper right panel . Together the findings indicate that S3I 201 disrupts Stat3 Stat3 dimers suggesting that the compound interacts with the Stat3 SH2 domain in intact cells.

The computational modeling predicts that S3I 201 interacts with the Stat3 SH2 domain thereby inhibiting Stat3 DNA binding activity . To further investigate the selectivity of S3I 201 and to rule out the possibility that it interacts with other SH2 domain containing proteins the present inventors evaluated its effect on the binding between the unrelated Src family protein Lck and the cognate phosphopeptide EPQpYEEIEL SEQ ID NO 2 where pY represents pTyr of SEQ ID NO 1 . The present inventors used the in vitro ELISA study involving the Lck SH2 GST protein and the conjugate pTyr peptide biotinyl Ac EPQpYEEIEL OH SEQ ID NO 2 Lee T. R. and Lawrence D. S. 2000 43 1173 1179 as described in Materials and Methods . Results from the ELISA show that the co presence of the Lck SH2 GST protein and its cognate pTyr peptide results in signal induction bar 4 suggesting an interaction between the two Lee T. R. and Lawrence D. S. 2000 43 1173 1179 . The addition of 30 M and 100 M S3I 201 has no effect on the signal induction compare bars 5 and 6 to the bar 4 indicating that S3I 201 does not interfere with the binding of the Lck SH2 domain to its cognate pTyr peptide EPQpYEEIEL SEQ ID NO 2 .

It has previously been shown that Stat3 is constitutively activated in a variety of malignant cells Yu C. L. et al. 1995 269 81 83 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 . To determine the effect of S3I 201 on intracellular Stat3 activation NIH3T3 v Src mouse fibroblasts and human breast cancer MDA MB 231 MDA MB 435 and MDA MB 468 cells that harbor constitutively active Stat3 were treated with the compound and nuclear extracts prepared for Stat3 DNA binding activity in vitro and EMSA analysis. Compared to control 0.05 DMSO treated cells lane 1 treatment with S3I 201 induced a time dependent inhibition of constitutive Stat3 activation in NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts FIG. E lanes 4 6 . By 24 hours constitutive Stat3 activation was significantly inhibited in the v Src transformed mouse fibroblasts and in the human breast cancer MDA MB 231 MDA MB 435 and MDA MB 468 cells lanes 4 6 and 8 10 and 12 . Furthermore SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis of whole cell lysates from NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts show pTyr705 Stat3 levels were significantly diminished following 24 hour treatment with S3I 201 while total Stat3 protein level remained unchanged. This inhibition of tyrosine phosphorylation may be explained by the fact that by binding to the Stat3 SH2 domain S3I 201 prevents Stat3 from binding to the pTyr motifs of the receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs and subsequently blocks de novo phosphorylation by tyrosine kinases. To investigate non specific effects SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis was performed on whole cell lysates from mouse fibroblasts transformed by v Src NIH3T3 v Src or overexpressing the human EGFR NIH3T3 hEGFR and stimulated by EGF to determine the ability to inhibit other signaling proteins. Treatment with S3I 201 for 24 hours had no significant effect on the phosphorylation of Shc pShc Erk1 2 pErk1 2 or Src pSrc in cells . Total Erk1 2 protein levels were unchanged. Moreover SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis with the anti pTyr antibody 4G10 clone shows no significant changes in the pTyr profile of NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts following 24 hour treatment with S3I 201 while same treatment condition significantly diminishes pTyr705 Stat3 levels . These results together indicate that at the concentrations that inhibit Stat3 activity S3I 201 does not significantly interfere with other signal transduction mechanisms.

The ability of S3I 201 to inhibit Stat3 Stat3 complex formation and Stat3 DNA binding activity prompted us to investigate its effect on Stat3 dependent transcriptional activity. Normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 were transiently co transfected with the Stat3 dependent luciferase reporter pLucTKS3 and a plasmid encoding the v Src oncoprotein that activates Stat3 and cells were untreated 0.05 DMSO control or treated with S3I 201. As previously reported Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 v Src protein mediated induction of the Stat3 dependent luciferase reporter pLucTKS3 activity by about 7 fold . This Stat3 dependent pLucTKS3 induction was significantly inhibited by the treatment of cells with S3I 201 in a dose dependent manner . To examine specificity of effects normal mouse fibroblasts were co transfected with the Stat3 independent luciferase reporters pLucSRE Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 or Casein promoter driven Luc Galbaugh T. et al. 2006 7 34 together with v Src plasmid and treated with S3I 201 or without 0.05 DMSO . In contrast to the effect on the induction of pLucTKS3 luciferase reporter v Src mediated induction of Stat3 independent pLucSRE Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 or the Casein promoter Luc Galbaugh T. et al. 2006 7 34 was not affected by treatment with S3I 201 . These results demonstrate that S3I 201 selectively inhibits Stat3 dependent transcriptional activity with no effect on Stat3 independent transcriptional events.

The above results of demonstrate that S3I 201 disrupts Stat3 activation. The present inventors next determined whether this Stat3 activity inhibitor is able to inhibit the anchorage dependent and independent transformation growth of human and mouse cancer cell lines and whether this inhibition is dependent on the presence of persistently active Stat3. The human breast carcinoma MDA MB 231 MDA MB 435 and MDA MB 468 cell lines and the v Src transformed mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 v Src that harbor constitutively active Stat3 and the human breast carcinoma MDA MB 453 cell line and normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 that do not harbor aberrant Stat3 activity were treated with S3I 201 and analyzed for viable cell number by trypan blue exclusion and microscopy or MTT assay data not shown . Treatment with S3I 201 significantly reduced viable cell numbers and inhibited growth of transformed mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 v Src and breast carcinoma cell lines MDA MB 231 MDA MB 435 and MDA MB 468 respectively . By contrast growth and viability of normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 and breast carcinoma cell line MDA MB 453 without aberrant Stat3 activity were not significantly altered . Thus S3I 201 affected only those cell lines harboring aberrant Stat3 consistent with inhibition of Stat3 DNA binding activity Table 3 and .

To further examine the effects of S3I 201 on Stat3 biological functions the compound was tested for its ability to inhibit the growth of v Src transformed mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 v Src in soft agar suspension in colony formation assays. Results show that growth of v Src transformed mouse fibroblasts in soft agar suspension is significantly inhibited by S3I 201 . By contrast soft agar growth of v Ras transformed counterpart NIH3T3 v Ras that is independent of constitutively active Stat3 is unaffected by treatment with S3I 201 indicating that S3I 201 selectively inhibits Stat3 mediated malignant transformation.

The present inventors next determined if the S3I 201 induced loss of tumor cell viability is due to apoptosis. To this end the human breast carcinoma cell lines MDA MB 453 and MDA MB 435 and the normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 and their v Src transformed counterpart NIH3T3 v Src were untreated 0.05 DMSO control or treated with S3I 201 for 48 hours and analyzed by Annexin V binding and Flow Cytometry. At 30 100 S3I 201 induced significant apoptosis in the representative human breast carcinoma cell line MDA MB 435 and the NIH3T3 v Src all of which harbor constitutively active Stat3 . The breast carcinoma MDA MB 435 cell line is more sensitive to 30 M S3I 201 . By contrast the human breast cancer MDA MB 453 cells and the normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 that do not contain abnormal Stat3 activity are less sensitive to S3I 201 at 100 M or less . These findings indicate that at concentrations that inhibit Stat3 activity S3I 201 selectively induces apoptosis of transformed cells harboring aberrant Stat3 signaling suggesting the inhibition of constitutively active Stat3 is part of the underlying mechanism of apoptosis by S3I 210. At 300 M or higher S3I 201 induced general non specific cytotoxicity independent of Stat3 activation status.

The present inventors reasoned that if the ability of S3I 201 to induce tumor cell apoptosis is due to its ability to inhibit Stat3 activation then the constitutively dimerized and persistently activated Stat3C Bromberg J. F. et al. 1999 98 295 303 should rescue from S3I 201 induced apoptosis. To this end the breast carcinoma MDA MB 231 cells that harbor activated Stat3 were transiently transfected with Stat3C and evaluated for apoptosis. Twenty four hours after transfection cells were treated or untreated with S3I 201 for an additional 24 48 hours harvested and analyzed by Annexin V binding and Flow Cytometry. Consistent with results in S3I 201 induced 50 80 apoptosis in untransfected or mock transfected human breast carcinoma MDA MB 231 cells left panel . By contrast cells transfected with Stat3C and treated with S3I 201 showed greatly diminished apoptosis left panel less than 2 fold compared with 9 or 5 fold apoptosis in non transfected or mock transfected cells respectively. There is increased in the background level of cell death which could be due to the effects of transfection. The rescue from the apoptotic effects of S3I 201 can be explained on the basis that the artificially designed activated Stat3C is not inhibited by S3I 201 and is sufficient to promote the biological effects of the endogenous Stat3. Thus the activated Stat3C rescues cells from the apoptotic effects of S3I 201 by compensating for the loss of endogenous Stat3 activity due to inhibition by S3I 201.

To establish that the effect of S3I 201 is due to its interaction with the Stat3 SH2 domain similar studies were performed in cells which were transiently transfected with either an expression vector for the N terminal region of Stat3 ST3 NT or the Stat3 SH2 domain ST3 SH2 and treated with or without S3I 201. Annexin V binding and Flow Cytometry showed that while mock transfected cells were strongly induced by S3I 201 to undergo apoptosis left panel similar to the Stat3C transfected cells the overexpression of the Stat3 SH2 domain diminished the apoptotic effects of S3I 201 left panel . In contrast cells overexpressing the ST3 NT region showed strong induction of apoptosis left panel suggesting ST3 NT has no effect on the ability of S3I 201 to induce apoptosis of malignant cells. The present inventors infer that the exogenous ST3 SH2 domain binds to S3I 201 thereby preventing the compound from binding to and inhibiting endogenous constitutively active Stat3 protein and its biological functions.

To investigate the molecular mechanisms for the cell growth inhibition and apoptosis by S3I 201 the present inventors examined the expression of the known Stat3 target genes in the v Src transformed mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 v Src and the human breast carcinoma MDA MB 231 cell line that harbor constitutively active Stat3. Immunoblot analysis of whole cell lysates shows significant reduction in expression of the Cyclin D1 Bcl xL and Survivin proteins in response to S3I 201 treatment indicating that S3I 201 represses induction of the cell cycle and anti apoptotic regulatory genes in malignant cells. These findings are consistent with the biological effects induced by S3I 201 and correlate with the inhibition of aberrant Stat3 activity.

The aforementioned findings demonstrate that S3I 201 possesses a strong inhibitory activity against aberrant Stat3 potently inhibits anchorage dependent and independent tumor cell growth and induces apoptosis of malignant cells in a Stat3 dependent manner. The present inventors extended these studies to evaluate the antitumor efficacy of S3I 201 using mouse models of human breast tumor xenografts that harbor constitutively active Stat3. Human breast MDA MB 231 tumor bearing mice were given i.v. injection of S3I 201 or vehicle every 2 or every 3 days for two weeks and tumor measurements were taken every 2 to 3 days. Compared to control vehicle treated tumors which continued to grow strong growth inhibition of human breast tumors were observed in mice that received S3I 201 . Continued evaluation of treated mice upon termination of treatment showed no resumption of tumor growth data not shown suggesting potentially a long lasting effect of S3I 201 on tumor growth. To determine that target was inhibited by S3I 201 lysates were prepared from tumor tissue from one control animal and from the residual tumor tissue in two treated mice for Stat3 DNA binding activity in vitro as the present inventors have previously done Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 1533 1542 . EMSA analysis showed strong inhibition of Stat3 DNA binding activity in residual tumor tissue from mice treated with S3I 201 T1 and T2 compared to control tumor lanes 1 to 3 . SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis of the lysates revealed minimal to no detection of pTyr Stat3 pYStat3 in residual tumor tissue from treated mice T1 and T2 compared to control upper panel . Total Stat3 protein remained unchanged lower panel . Moreover EMSA analysis of in vitro Stat3 DNA binding activity also shows that pre incubation of lysates of equal total protein from control tumor tissue with 10 30 and 100 M S3I 201 prior to incubation with radiolabeled hSIE probe resulted in a dose dependent abrogation of Stat3 activity lanes 4 to 6 as observed originally in . Together these studies establish the proof of concept for the antitumor effect of S3I 201 in tumors that harbor constitutively active Stat3.

The data in the Examples demonstrate the feasibility of using X ray crystallographic data and computational modeling as a basis for a structure based virtual screening to identify chemical probes and small molecule binders of the Stat3 SH2 domain. The docking approach with GLIDE 2.7 Friesner R. et al. 2004 47 1739 1749 Halgren T. et al. 2004 47 1750 1759 was first validated using the native pTyr peptide APY LKT which produced a docking mode that closely resembled the X ray crystal structure Becker S. et al. 1998 394 145 151 . By this approach the present inventors have docked and scored small molecules from the NCI Chemical libraries into the Stat3 SH2 domain and identified potent binders that ranked within the top 0.1 of the docked and scored Plated Set 3D structures. S3I 201 NSC 74859 emerged as a potent inhibitor of Stat3 DNA binding activity in vitro. Similar computational analysis has been applied in the development of inhibitors of Stat3 and other proteins Shao H. et al. 2004 279 18967 18973 Song H. et al. 2005 102 4700 4705 . The docking pose of S31 201 suggests that its aminosalicylic moiety mimics the phenylphosphate group of the PY LKT motif. Furthermore its carboxyl group is hydrogen bonded to the Arg 609 Ser 611 and Ser 613 of Stat3 while the phenolic hydroxyl group is hydrogen bonded to Lys 591. Moreover the proximity of the Lys 591 to the benzene ring that contains the phenolic hydroxyl group suggests the possibility of a stabilizing pi cation interaction. Also the tolyl group is buried within a partially hydrophobic pocket which contains the tetramethylene portion of the side chain of Lys 592 and the trimethylene portion of the side chain of Arg 595 along with residues Ile 597 and Ile 634. The present inventors believe that these features the phosphate mimic and hydrophobic side chain combine and explain how S3I 201 binds to the SH2 domain of Stat3.

The native pTyr peptide inhibitor of Stat3 APY LKT SEQ ID NO 1 was previously shown to disrupt Stat3 Stat3 dimerization thereby inducing antitumor cell effects Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 . The computational analysis predicts that S3I 201 is a reasonably strong binder within the Stat3 SH2 domain raising the possibility that it might disrupt Stat3 Stat3 dimerization as a mode of inhibition of Stat3. Using differently tagged Stat3 monomer proteins in pull down assays the present inventors demonstrate that S3I 201 disrupts the complex formation between two Stat3 monomers. S3I 201 preferentially interacts with Stat3 monomer protein over Stat1 or the Src family protein and has a 2 fold lower potency for Stat5. In cells the interactions with Stat3 will prevent binding of the Stat3 SH2 to RTKs and Src and or Jaks and inhibit de novo phosphorylation and activation of Stat3 monomer. Thus S3I 201 mediates selective inhibition of Stat3 transcriptional activity induces cell growth inhibition loss of viability and apoptosis of human breast cancer and v Src transformed mouse cells that harbor constitutively active Stat3 as well as blocks v Src transformation events which are all consistent with the abrogation of Stat3 activation Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 Catlett Falcone R. et al. 1999 10 105 115 Mora L. B. et al. 2002 62 6659 6666 . The observation that overexpressed exogenous Stat3 SH2 domain but not Stat3 N terminus in malignant cells protects against S3I 201 induced apoptosis strongly supports the Stat3 SH2 domain as the target of S3I 201 and for that reason will bind to S3I 201 in cells thereby preventing the S3I 201 from inhibiting endogenous Stat3 activity. Moreover the rescue from the apoptotic effects of S3I 201 by the ectopic expression of the constitutively active Stat3C in malignant cells demonstrates that Stat3C compensates for the absence of aberrant Stat3 signaling. Thus these findings further strongly suggest the anti tumor cell effects of S3I 201 are mediated by suppressing aberrant Stat3 induced dysregulation of the cell cycle control and the anti apoptotic genes. Furthermore in vivo antitumor effects of S31 201 in human breast tumor xenografts establish the proof of concept for the therapeutic potential of S3I 201 as a Stat3 inhibitor in human tumors that harbor constitutively active Stat3.

Described herein is the first report of a Stat3 SH2 domain binder and an inhibitor of Stat3 signaling which is structurally different from previously identified dimerization disruptors peptides and peptidomimetics Turkson J. et al. 2001 276 45443 45455 Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 261 269 or other Stat3 inhibitors such as the g quartet oligonucleotides Jing N. et al. 2003 22 685 696 peptide aptamers Nagel Wolfrum K. et al. 2004 2 170 182 platinum IV complexes Turkson J. et al. 2004 3 1533 1542 Turkson J. et al. 2005 280 32979 32988 cucurbitacin Blaskovich M. A. et al. 2003 63 1270 1279 and STA 21 NSC 628869 Song H. et al. 2005 102 4700 4705 . While SH2 domains have been noted to have a high sequence similarity in their 100 amino acids Sheinerman F. B. et al. 2003 334 823 841 Kuriyan J. and Cowburn D. 1997 26 259 288 S3I 201 has preference for Stat3 in that at concentrations that inhibit Stat3 S3I 201 has low effect on Stat1 and Stat5 no interaction with the Src family proteins weak inhibition of Erks 1 2 and Shc activation and low toxicity to cells with no aberrant Stat3.

The study described herein supports computational modeling application in structure based virtual screening for identifying Stat3 inhibitors from chemical libraries and together with another report Song H. et al. 2005 102 4700 4705 is among the first to identify Stat3 inhibitors by this approach. S3I 201 represents a new lead for developing combinatorial libraries with increased diversity thereby setting a new course in the Stat3 inhibitor design.

Ethyl 2 tosyloxy acetate 2 . A solution of ethyl glycolate 500 mg 4.8 mmol and tosyl chloride 915 mg 4.8 mmol in anhydrous diethyl ether 2 ml at 0 C. was treated dropwise with triethylamine 1.34 ml 9.6 mmol . The temperature was maintained at 0 C. with stirring for a further 2 h. After this time water was added and the phases separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with fresh diethyl ether. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel R 0.29 25 ethyl acetate in hexane affording the tosylate 2 as a colorless oil which solidified on standing as a white solid 868 mg 70 . This procedure was repeated on 2 scale 1.8 g 73 . 400 MHz CDCl 1.22 1.27 3H m CH 2.46 3H s ArCH 4.16 4.22 2H m CCH 4.58 4.59 2H m OCH 7.36 2H d J 8.2 Hz ArH 7.84 2H d J 8.2 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz CDCl 14.2 21.9 62.1 64.9 128.3 130.1 132.9 145.5 166.2 MS ES 276.0 100 M HO ion not detected in ES .

2 Tosyloxy acetic acid 3 . A solution of ethyl 2 tosyloxy acetate 2 860 mg 3.33 mmol in ethanol 4 ml was treated at room temperature with 5 NaOH aqueous solution 2 ml . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The ethanol was removed in vacuo and aqueous 5 HCl solution 2.7 ml was added. The aqueous mixture was extracted with chloroform and the organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The remaining white solid was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate as a white powder 476 mg 62 . This reaction was repeated on 2 scale 1.449 g 94 . 400 MHz MeOD 2.45 3H s Me 4.58 2H s CH 7.44 2H d J 8.2 Hz ArH 7.82 2H d J 8.2 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD 20.4 64.7 128.0 129.9 133.0 145.6 168.2 MS ES 247.8 100 M HO MS ES 170.1 100 TsO .

2 Chloro 2 oxoethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 4 . A mixture of 2 tosyloxy acetic acid 3 400 mg 1.74 mmol and thionyl chloride 1 ml was heated at reflux for 1.5 h. The excess thionyl chloride was removed in vacuo and the resulting white solid dried under high vacuum at 50 C. for 1.5 h. The product acid chloride was used without further purification.

2 Hydroxy 4 2 tosyloxy acetamido benzoic acid 1 NSC 59263 . A mixture of p amino salicylic acid 102 mg 0.67 mmol and NaOH 27 mg 0.67 mmol in water 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min until all of the solid material had dissolved. NaCO 59 mg 0.5561 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A solution of 2 chloro 2 oxoethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 4 200 mg 0.8044 mmol in THF 2 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. Then reaction mixture was poured into a separating funnel containing diethyl ether. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase washed with a further portion of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 by addition of 1N HCl solution and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was washed twice with 1N HCl solution and the organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting pale yellow solid was triturated with chloroform leaving 1 as a white powder 155 mg 63 . 400 MHz DMSO 2.37 3H s Me 4.68 2H s CH 6.93 1H d J 7.4 Hz ArH 7.17 1H s ArH 7.46 2H d J 6.8 Hz ArH 7.69 1H d J 7.4 Hz ArH 7.81 2H d J 6.8 Hz ArH 10.32 1H s NH 100.6 MHz DMSO 21.8 68.0 107.0 110.7 128.5 130.9 131.7 132.7 144.5 146.0 162.8 164.5 172.2 MS ES 366.0 100 M H 388.0 50 M Na ion not detected in ES .

4 2 Tosyloxy acetamido benzoic acid 5 . A mixture of p aminobenzoic acid 92 mg 0.67 mmol and NaOH 27 mg 0.67 mmol in water 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min until all of the solid material had dissolved. NaCO 59 mg 0.5561 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A solution of 2 chloro 2 oxoethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 4 200 mg 0.8044 mmol in THF 2 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. Then reaction mixture was poured into a separating funnel containing diethyl ether. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase washed with a further portion of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 by addition of 1N HCl solution and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was washed twice with 1N HCl solution and the organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting pale orange solid was recrystallized from chloroform MeOH 20 1 affording 5 as a white powder 146 mg 62 . 400 MHz DMSO 2.37 3H s Me 4.70 2H s CH 7.46 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 7.59 2H d J 8.6 Hz ArH 7.82 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 7.87 2H d J 8.6 Hz ArH 10.39 1H s NH 12.72 1H COH 100.6 MHz DMSO 21.8 68.0 119.4 126.4 128.5 130.9 131.1 132.7 142.7 146.0 164.4 167.5 MS ES 349.7 100 M H 371.7 40 M Na MS ES 347.9 100 M H HRMS M H requires 348.05473. found 348.05334.

General Procedure A suspension of the aniline derivative 0.455 mmol in water 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min. NaCO 40 mg 0.455 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A solution of 2 chloro 2 oxoethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 4 125 mg 0.5 mmol in THF 2 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h.

2 Oxo 2 phenylamino ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 6 A white precipitate formed in the reaction mixture. This precipitate was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under high vacuum. This afforded 6 as an off white powder 103 mg 74 . An analytical sample was obtained by recrystallization from hexane ethyl acetate white needles . 400 MHz MeOD 2.40 3H s CH 4.63 2H s CH 7.10 1H t J 7.6 Hz ArH 7.28 2H t J 7.6 Hz ArH 7.41 7.50 4H m ArH 7.85 2H d J 8 Hz 100.6 MHz MeOD 20.4 67.2 120.5 124.7 128.1 128.6 130.0 132.6 137.5 145.9 164.6 MS ES 306.0 100 M H HRMS M H requires 306.07946. found 306.07944.

2 4 Cyanophenylamino 2 oxoethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 7 A orange precipitate formed in the reaction mixture. This precipitate was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under high vacuum. The solid was shown by NMR analysis to comprise of the desired product and starting material. The solid was purified by column chromatography R 0.39 50 ethyl acetate in hexane affording 7 as an off white powder 58 mg 39 . 400 MHz MeOD DMSO spike 2.41 3H s CH 4.68 2H s CH 7.44 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 7.66 7.71 4H m ArH 7.86 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD DMSO spike 20.5 67.3 107.1 118.6 120.1 128.2 130.1 133.1 142.2 146.0 165.0 MS ES 330.7 55 M H 347.7 100 M HO .

2 Oxo 2 4 sulfamoylphenylamino ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 8 A white precipitate formed in the reaction mixture. This precipitate was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under high vacuum. This afforded 8 as an off white powder 109 mg 62 . An analytical sample was obtained by recrystallization from acetone ethyl acetate colourless white crystals . 400 MHz MeOD DMSO spike 2.42 3H s CH 4.68 2H s CH 7.44 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 7.67 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.83 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.87 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD DMSO spike 20.5 67.3 119.8 127.0 128.2 130.1 132.7 139.3 141.2 146.0 164.9 MS ES 348.0 100 385.0 20 M H 402.0 50 M HO .

2 4 Methylphenylsulfonamido acetic acid 9 . Glycine 1 g 13.32 mmol was dissolved in 1N NaOH aq. and a solution of tosyl chloride 2.62 g 13.72 mmol in diethyl ether 15 ml was added portion wise with stirring over 10 min. The resulting mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 h. The ethereal layer was separated and the aqueous layer treated with 2N HCl solution until acidified to pH 5. After cooling the resulting solution to 0 C. the product began to precipitate from the solution. The solid was collected by filtration and the mother liquor placed in a fridge overnight causing more of the desired product to precipitate. The solid was again collected by filtration and the combined collected solid was dried under high vacuum affording 9 as a white powder 613 mg 21 . 400 MHz MeOD 2.41 3H s CH 3.66 2H s CH 7.35 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 7.73 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD 20.3 43.6 127.0 129.5 137.6 143.6 171.0 MS ES 246.8 100 M HO MS ES 227.9 100 M H HRMS M H requires 228.03360. found 228.03364.

2 4 Methylphenylsulfonamido acetyl chloride 10 . A mixture of 2 4 methylphenylsulfonamido acetic acid 9 200 mg 0.873 mmol and thionyl chloride 1 ml was heated at reflux for 1.5 h. The excess thionyl chloride was removed in vacuo and the resulting white solid dried under high vacuum at 50 C. for 1.5 h. The product acid chloride 10 was used without further purification.

2 Hydroxy 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido acetamido benzoic acid 11 . A mixture of p aminosalicylic acid 111 mg 0.728 mmol and NaOH 29 mg 0.728 mmol in water 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min until all of the solid material had dissolved. NaCO 64 mg 0.604 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A solution of 2 4 methylphenylsulfonamido acetyl chloride 10 216 mg 0.873 mmol in THF 2 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. Then reaction mixture was poured into a separating funnel containing diethyl ether. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase washed with a further portion of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 by addition of 1N HCl solution and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was washed twice with 1N HCl solution and the organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting pale yellow solid was triturated with chloroform leaving 11 as an off white powder 187 mg 71 . 400 MHz MeOD 2.36 3H s CH 3.72 2H s CH 6.90 1H dd J 8.6 Hz and 1.8 Hz ArH 7.17 1H d J 1.6 ArH 7.33 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 7.73 7.76 3H m ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD 21.6 46.6 106.7 110.9 127.3 130.2 131.7 138.1 143.4 145.5 162.7 167.7 172.2 MS ES 364.7 100 M H ion not detected in ES .

Ethyl 2 4 chlorobiphenyl 4 ylsulfonyloxy acetate 12 . A suspension of ethyl glycolate 73 mg 0.6964 mmol and 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 4 sulfonyl chloride 200 mg 0.6964 mmol in anhydrous diethyl ether 1 ml at 0 C. was treated dropwise with triethylamine 0.194 ml 1.393 mmol . The temperature was maintained at 0 C. with stirring for a further 2 h. After this time water was added and the phases separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with fresh diethyl ether. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel R 0.45 25 ethyl acetate in hexane affording 12 as a colorless oil which solidified on standing as an off white solid 213 mg 86 . 400 MHz CDCl 1.25 3H t J 7.2 Hz CH 4.21 2H q J 7.2 Hz CH 4.65 2H s CH 7.46 7.55 4H m ArH 7.73 2H d J 8.8 Hz ArH 8.03 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz CDCl 14.2 62.2 65.0 127.9 128.8 129.0 129.6 134.8 135.4 137.6 146.1 166.2 MS ES 372.0 100 M HO MS ES 266.9 100 M H .

2 4 Chlorobiphenyl 4 ylsulfonyloxy acetic acid 13 . A solution of ester 12 200 mg 0.5633 mmol in ethanol 0.7 ml was treated at room temperature with 5 NaOH aqueous solution 0.45 ml . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The ethanol was removed in vacuo and aqueous 5 HCl solution 0.46 ml was added. The aqueous mixture was extracted with chloroform and the organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The remaining white solid was recrystallized from chloroform as a white powder 133 mg 72 . Material that did not crystallize was collected by column chromatography using a gradient ethyl acetate to 50 MeOH in ethyl acetate . 400 MHz MeOD 4.65 2H s CH 7.50 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.70 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.88 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 8.02 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD 5.2 127.7 128.6 128.8 129.1 134.9 135.0 137.7 145.7 168.3 MS ES 343.7 100 M HO 323.7 5 M H ion not detected in ES .

2 Chloro 2 oxoethyl 4 chlorobiphenyl 4 sulfonate 14 . A mixture of acid 13 100 mg 0.306 mmol and thionyl chloride 1 ml was heated at reflux for 1.5 h. The excess thionyl chloride was removed in vacuo and the resulting pale yellow white solid dried under high vacuum at 50 C. for 1.5 h. The product acid chloride 14 was used without further purification.

4 2 4 Chlorobiphenyl 4 ylsulfonyloxy acetamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 15 . A mixture of p aminosalicylic acid 43 mg 0.278 mmol and NaOH 11 mg 0.278 mmol in water 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min until all of the solid material had dissolved. NaCO 25 mg 0.231 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A suspension of 14 105 mg 0.306 mmol in THF 2 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. Then reaction mixture was poured into a separating funnel containing diethyl ether. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase washed with a further portion of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 by addition of 1N HCl solution and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was washed twice with 1N HCl solution and the organic phase was dried NaSO and filtered. The product was found to be in both the diethyl ether and ethyl acetate fractions so these organic phases were combined and the solvent removed in vacuo. The product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel R 0.27 10 MeOH in ethyl acetate affording 15 as a yellow powder 45 mg 35 . An analytical sample was obtained by further purification by recrystallization from EtOAc MeOH. 400 MHz MeOD 4.72 2H s CH 6.89 1H dd J 8.6 Hz and 1.8 Hz ArH 7.13 1H d J 1.8 Hz ArH 7.46 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.58 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.70 1H d J 8.6 Hz ArH 7.82 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 8.03 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH MS ES 401.9 100 459.8 75 M H .

Ethyl 2 biphenyl 4 ylsulfonyloxy acetate 16 . A suspension of ethyl glycolate 374 l 3.957 mmol and biphenyl 4 sulfonyl chloride 1 g 3.957 mmol in anhydrous diethyl ether 2 ml at 0 C. was treated dropwise with triethylamine 1.1 ml 7.914 mmol . The temperature was maintained at 0 C. with stirring for a further 2 h. After this time water was added and the phases separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with fresh diethyl ether. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel R 0.26 25 ethyl acetate in hexane affording 16 as a colourless oil 1.055 g 83 . 400 MHz CDCl 1.25 3H t J 6.8 Hz CH 4.20 2H q J 6.8 Hz CH 4.65 2H s CH 7.44 7.51 3H m ArH 7.61 2H d J 7.6 Hz ArH 7.76 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 8.01 2H d J 8 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz CDCl 14.2 62.2 65.0 127.6 128.1 128.9 129.0 129.4 134.4 139.2 147.4 166.2 MS ES 338.1 100 M HO .

2 Biphenyl 4 ylsulfonyloxy acetic acid 17 . A solution of ester 16 1.05 g 3.281 mmol in ethanol 4 ml was treated at room temperature with 5 NaOH aqueous solution 2.6 ml . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The ethanol was removed in vacuo and aqueous 5 HCl solution 2.6 ml was added. The aqueous mixture was extracted with chloroform and the organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The remaining white solid was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate as a white powder 806 mg 84 . 400 MHz MeOD 4.66 2H s CH 7.41 7.51 3H m ArH 7.69 2H d J 7.2 Hz ArH 7.87 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 8.01 2H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 100.6 MHz MeOD 4.9 127.2 127.7 128.6 128.7 129.0 134.5 139.1 147.2 168.2.

2 Chloro 2 oxoethyl biphenyl 4 sulfonate 18 . A mixture of acid 17 200 mg 0.685 mmol and thionyl chloride 1 ml was heated at reflux for 1.5 h. The excess thionyl chloride was removed in vacuo and the residue dried under high vacuum at 50 C. for 1.5 h. The product acid chloride 18 was used without further purification.

4 2 biphenyl 4 ylsulfonamido acetamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 19 . A mixture of p aminosalicylic acid 95 mg 0.623 mmol and NaOH 25 mg 0.623 mmol in water 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min until all of the solid material had dissolved. NaCO 55 mg 0.517 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A suspension of 18 213 mg 0.685 mmol in THF 2 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. Then reaction mixture was poured into a separating funnel containing diethyl ether. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase washed with a further portion of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 by addition of 1N HCl solution and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was washed twice with 1N HCl solution and the organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The product was found to be in both the diethyl ether and ethyl acetate fractions so these organic phases were combined and the solvent removed in vacuo. The product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel R 0.22 10 MeOH in ethyl acetate affording 19 as a yellow powder 109 mg 41 . An analytical sample was obtained by further purification by recrystallization from EtOAc hexane. 400 MHz DMSO 4.76 2H s CH 6.96 1H d J 8.4 Hz ArH 7.22 1H s ArH 7.42 7.74 6H m ArH 7.93 8.01 4H m ArH 10.37 1H s NH MS ES 428.0 100 M H .

4 2 Biphenyl 4 ylsulfonyloxy acetamido benzoic acid 20 . A mixture of p aminobenzoic acid 43 mg 0.31 mmol and NaOH 12.5 mg 0.31 mmol in water 3 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 min until all of the solid material had dissolved. NaCO 27 mg 0.258 mmol was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. A suspension of sulfonyl chloride 18 106 mg 0.341 mmol in THF 1 ml was injected rapidly and the resulting solution allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. Then reaction mixture was poured into a separating funnel containing diethyl ether. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase washed with a further portion of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 by addition of 1N HCl solution and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was washed twice with 1N HCl solution and the organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting solid was recrystallized from hexane ethyl acetate affording acid 20 as an off white powder 81 mg 64 . 400 MHz DMSO 4.79 2H s CH 7.45 7.70 9H m ArH 7.86 8.03 4H m ArH 10.43 1H NH 100.6 MHz DMSO 68.2 119.4 126.5 127.9 128.6 129.2 129.6 129.8 131.1 134.3 138.7 142.7 146.7 164.4 167.5 MS ES 411.7 100 M H .

The sulfonyl chloride 0.995 g 3.94 mmol was suspended in pyridine DCM 10 ml 5 ml and ethyl glycinate 0.500 g 3.58 mmol was added at room temperature under argon atmosphere and stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with 4M HCl followed by brine. The organic phase was dried MgSO and concentrated to obtain the intermediate 1a 0.941 g . This intermediate was carried to the next stage without purification.

The intermediate 1a 900 mg 2.82 mmol was suspended in EtOH HO 9 ml 1 ml and NaOH 5 wt 50 mg was added to the reaction mixture and refluxed for 3 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature acidified pH 2 3 and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic phase was dried MgSO and concentrated to obtain the required acid 770 mg as a white powder. The carboxylic acid obtained was refluxed with thionyl chloride DCM 3 1 for 2 3 h. The excess thionyl chloride was removed under vacuum to give the intermediate 2a 820 mg . This product was carried to the next stage.

4 2 4 Phenyl phenylsulfonamido acetamido benzoic acid 32 . para Aminosalicylic acid 54 mg 0.35 mmol was suspended in water 4 ml and 3 drops of THF was added to dissolve the compound. NaCOwas added to the reaction mixture and cooled to 0 C. A solution of intermediate 2a 100 mg 0.322 mmol in THF 1.5 ml was added over 15 min. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. A solution of 4M HCl was added portionwise to obtain a precipitate. The white precipitate was filtered and washed with water and dried under vacuum to obtain 32 45 mg as a pure compound H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 12.7 broad s 1H 8.17 t J 12.0 Hz 1H 7.88 7.81 m 5H 7.64 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 7.57 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 4.0 Hz 1H .

4 2 4 4 chlorophenyl phenylsulfonamido acetamido benzoic acid 31 . The synthesis of 31 achieved in a similar manner to 32. H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.95 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.88 d J 9.2 Hz 2H 7.72 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.53 7.50 m 4H 7.43 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 3.80 s 2H .

Compounds 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 and 30 were synthesized using the procedure outlined for compound 32 from appropriate acyl chlorides and amines.

2 Hydroxy 4 2 4 biphenylsulfonyloxy acetamido benzoic acid 21 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.93 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.73 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.18 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.55 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.44 7.35 3H m 7.16 appd 1H 6.88 dd J 8.4 1.2 Hz 1H 3.77 s 2H .

4 2 Benzyloxy acetamido benzoic acid 22 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz . d J 6.4 Hz 2H 7.71 2H J 6.8 Hz 2H 7.44 7.31 m 5H 4.68 s 2H 4.11 s 2H .

4 2 Benzyloxy acetamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 23 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.78 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.42 7.30 m 6H 7.07 7.05 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.66 s 2H 4.08 s 2H .

4 3 Phenylsulfonyl propanamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 24 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.95 7.91 m 4H 7.70 7.56 m 5H 3.60 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 2.81 t J 8.0 Hz .

4 3 Phenylsulfonyl propanamido benzoic acid 25 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.94 d J 8.0 Hz 4H 7.73 d J 8.8 Hz 4H 7.69 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.63 7.59 m 2H 7.20 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 6.93 dd J 8.4 1.6 Hz 1H 3.60 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.79 t J 6.8 Hz 2H .

4 4 Phenylbutanamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 26 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.31 appd J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.27 7.13 m 5H 7.01 dd J 8.4 1.6 Hz 1H 2.67 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.38 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.02 1.95 m 2H .

4 4 Phenylbutanamido benzoic acid 27 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.95 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.66 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.27 7.15 m 5H 2.68 t J 8 Hz 2H 2.40 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 2.00 m 2H .

2 Biphenyl 4 ylsulfonamido N 4 cyanophenyl acetamide 28 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.09 broad t 1H 8.02 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.87 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.75 7.64 m 5H 7.47 7.43 m 4H 4.53 s 1H 3.96 appd 1H .

4 2 Biphenyl 4 ylsulfonamido acetamido benzenesulfonic acid 29 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.94 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.75 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.71 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.58 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.50 7.38 m 6H 3.78 s 2H .

2 Biphenyl 4 ylsulfonamido N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide 30 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 10.27 s 1H 8.16 broad t 1H 7.84 m 4H 7.69 7.63 m 6H 7.48 broad t 2H 7.43 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.23 s 2H 3.72 appd J 6 Hz 2H .

4 tert Butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chlorophenyl butanoic acid 33 . Ref 2003 61 331. BOCO 5.32 g 24.41 mmol 1 eq was added to a stirred solution of Baclofen 5.20 g 24.41 mmol and NaOH 1M 73 ml in water 73 ml and 1 4 dioxane 73 ml at 0 C. After stirring for 4 h at room temperature a 10 aqueous solution o citric acid was added until pH 3. The formed white solid was filtered washed with water 50 ml and dried. The pure acid 33 was obtained without further purification 6.43 g 20.56 mmol 84 mp 139 141 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.37 9H s 2.50 1H dd J 8.8 15.2 Hz 2.66 1H dd J 5.0 15.4 Hz 3.12 3.27 3H m 7.22 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.27 2H d J 8.4 Hz .

tert Butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 oxo 4 phenylamino butylcarbamate 34 . To a solution of 33 0.206 g 0.657 mmol 1.2 eq and aniline 0.051 g 0.548 mmol in dry DMF 5 ml HATU 0.315 g 0.9087 mmol 1.5 eq and DIPEA 0.340 g 2.63 mmol 4 eq was added at room temperature under Ar. After stirring overnight at room temperature the reaction mixture was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 15 ml . The organic extracts were collected dried over NaSOand the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure. The crude compound was purified by chromatography on silica gel 3 7 ethyl acetate hexane v v R0.30 to give 34 as a white solid 0.120 g 0.307 mol 47 mp 165 167 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.43 9H s 2.55 1H dd J 5.0 13.8 Hz 2.75 1H dd J 8.4 13.6 Hz 3.16 3.39 2H m 3.52 3.57 1H m 4.60 1H bs 7.07 7.13 3H m 7.29 7.32 4H m 7.54 2H d J 8.4 Hz 8.61 1H bs .

The compound was prepared from 33 and ethyl 4 aminobenzoate in a similar manner as described for preparation of 34. Chromatography on silica gel 7 3hexanes ethyl R0.20 afforded 35 as a brown solid in 72 yield. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.35 9H s C C 1.35 3H t J 6.8 Hz CHC 2.63 1H dd J 8.6 14.6 Hz CHCO 2.77 1H dd J 6.2 14.6 Hz CHCO 3.35 3.40 1H m CHCCH 4.31 2H q J 7.2 Hz CCH 7.24 2H d J 8.8 Hz 2 Ar H 7.28 2H d J 8.8 Hz 2 Ar H 7.57 2H d J 8.4 Hz 2 Ar H 7.91 2H d J 9.2 Hz 2 Ar H . C NMR 400 MHz CDCl 14.56 s CHH 28.56 s C H 40.92 s HCO 42.77 s CHHCH 45.97 s HNH 61.04 s CH 80.56 s CHCH 119.07 s 2 CH Ar 125.90 s C Ar 129.08 s 2 CH Ar 129.17 s 2 CH Ar 130.90 s 2 CH Ar 133.17 s C Ar 140.35 s C Ar 142.65 s C Ar 157.54 s C O 166.47 s C O 170.32 s C O . v pure sample cm 3353 md 1685 st C O 1685 st C O 1661 st C O 1524 st 1273 st 1249 st 1188 st 769 md .

A solution of 4 phenoxybenzenesulfonic acid 3.14 g 12.64 mmol in thionyl chloride 9 ml was refluxed for 4 h in presence of DMF 2 drops . After cooling to room temperature diethyl ether 20 ml was added and the resulting white solid was separated by filtration. The filtered solution was evaporated in vacuo to give 4 phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride as a brown oil which was used in the next step without further purification.

3 4 Chlorophenyl 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido N phenylbutanamide 36 . To a solution of 34 0.106 g 0.271 mmol in DCM 2 ml TFA 2 ml was added. After stirring for 2 h at room temperature the solvent was distilled under reduced pressure to give a brown solid. The crude residue was dissolved as obtained in 1 4 dioxane HO 1 1 5 ml and KCO 0.225 g 1.63 mmol 6 eq was added followed by tosyl chloride 0.056 g 0.298 mmol 1.1 eq at room temperature. After stirring for 2 h at room temperature the resulting mixture was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. Water 10 ml was added and the resulting white solid was separated by filtration and dried. Pure 36 was obtained without further purification 0.079 g 0.179 mmol 66 mp 200 202 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.39 3H s Ar C 2.56 1H dd J 9.2 14.4 Hz CHCO 2.77 1H dd J 6.8 14.4 Hz CHCO 3.06 1H dd J 8.2 13.0 Hz CHNH 3.15 1H dd J 6.8 13.2 Hz CHNH 7.03 7.07 1H m CH Ar 7.15 2H d J 8.4 Hz 2 CH Ar 7.21 7.26 4H s 4 CH Ar 7.29 2H d J 8.0 Hz 2 CH Ar 7.36 7.38 2H m 2 CH Ar 7.62 2H d J 8.8 Hz 2 CH Ar . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 21.63 s Ar H 40.73 s HCO 41.87 s CHHCH 48.13 s HNH 119.79 s 2 CH Ar 123.80 s CH Ar 127.14 s 2 CH Ar 128.80 s 2 CH Ar 129.29 s 2 CH Ar 130.23 s 2 CH Ar 130.36 s 2 CH Ar 131.80 s C Ar 138.14 s C Ar 139.64 s C Ar 141.53 s C Ar 143.20 s C Ar 169.81 s C O . v pure sample cm 3340 md N H 3141 md N H 1665 st C O 1598 st 1547 st 1493 md 1444 st 1154 st 1087 md . MS API ES m z 443 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 443.1201 M H .

Ethyl 4 4 4 benzylphenylsulfonamido 3 4 chlorophenyl butanamido benzoate 37 . The compound was obtained as a white solid in 65 from 35 and 4 phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride in a similar manner as described for preparation of 36 mp. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.36 3H t J 6.8 Hz CHC 2.60 1H dd J 8.0 14.8 Hz CHCO 2.82 1H dd J 6.0 14.8 Hz CHCO 3.09 1H dd J 7.8 13.4 Hz CHNH 3.16 1H dd J 6.4 13.2 Hz CHNH 4.32 2H q J 7.2 Hz CCH 6.99 2H d J 7.2 Hz 7.06 7.08 2H m 7.18 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.18 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.19 7.24 3H m 7.40 744 2H m 7.56 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.72 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.91 2H d J 8.8 Hz . MS API ES m z 593 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 593.15134 M H .

Ethyl 4 3 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoate 38 . The compound was obtained as a white solid in 96 from 35 and tosyl chloride in a similar manner as described for preparation of 28 mp 187 189 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.36 3H t J 7.2 Hz CHC 2.39 3H s Ar C 2.60 1H dd J 8.8 14.8 Hz CHCO 2.82 1H dd J 6.0 14.8 Hz CHCO 3.06 1H dd J 8.0 13.2 Hz CHNH 3.14 1H dd J 6.8 13.2 Hz CHNH 4.32 2H q J 7.2 Hz CCH 7.15 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.22 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.29 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.54 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.62 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.91 2H d J 9.2 Hz . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 14.88 s CHH 21.62 s Ar H 40.74 s CCO 41.76 s CHHCH 48.25 s HNH 61.08 s HCH 119.06 s 2 CH Ar 124.78 s C Ar 127.34 s 2 CH Ar 128.83 s 2 CH Ar 130.23 s 2 CH Ar 130.36 s 2 CH Ar 130.84 s 2 CH Ar 131.83 s C Ar 138.15 s C Ar 141.42 s C Ar 143.20 s C Ar 143.95 s C Ar 165.98 s C O 170.47 s C O . v pure sample cm 3320 md 3292 md 1712 st C O 1677 st C O 1598 md 1540 st 1315 st 1272 st 1149 st 1104 st . MS API ES m z 515 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 515.1411 M H .

4 3 4 Chlorophenyl 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoic acid 39 . A solution of 36 0.023 g 0.044 mmol in methanol 1 ml and THF 1 ml was stirred in presence of NaOH 1M 1 ml overnight at rt. The solution remaining was concentrated in vacuo. HCl 1M 1 ml was added and the formed white solid was filtered washed with water 5 ml and dried. Pure 39 was obtained without further need for purification 0.015 g 0.030 mmol 68 mp 250 252 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.39 3H s Ar H 2.60 1H dd J 8.8 14.8 Hz CHCO 2.82 1H dd J 6.4 14.8 Hz CHCO 3.06 1H dd J 8.0 13.2 Hz CHNH 3.14 1H dd J 6.8 13.2 Hz CHNH 7.16 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.23 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.29 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.54 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.62 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.92 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d . v pure sample cm 1864 st 1665 st 1653 st 1604 st 1519 st 1455 st 1324 st 1290 st 1164 st 1151 st . MS API ES m z 485 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 485.0935 M H .

4 3 4 Chlorophenyl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoic acid 40 . A solution of ester 38 0.065 g 0.107 mmol in methanol 1.5 ml and THF 1.5 ml was stirred in presence of NaOH 1M 1 ml for 2 h at 80 C. After cooling to rt the solution remaining was concentrated in vacuo. HCl 1M 1.5 ml was added and the formed white solid was filtered washed with water 10 ml and dried. The pure acid 40 was obtained without further need for purification 0.050 g 0.088 mmol 83 mp 119 121 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.61 1H dd J 8.4 14.8 Hz CHCO 2.82 1H dd J 6.0 14.8 Hz CHCO 3.09 1H dd J 7.8 13.4 Hz CHNH 3.16 1H dd J 6.4 13.2 Hz CHNH 6.99 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.06 7.08 2H m 7.17 7.24 5H m 7.47.44 2H m 7.54 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.72 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.91 2H d J 9.2 Hz . C NMR 400 MHz CDOD . v pure sample cm 3359 st OH 1686 st C O 1595 st C O 1530 st 1487 st 1410 md 1318 md 1246 st 1150 st 1092 md . MS API ES m z 563 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 563.10436 M H .

Ethyl 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl acryloylamino benzoate 42 . Anhydrous pyridine 0.331 g 4.2 mmol 1.2 eq and ethyl 4 aminobenzoate 0.577 g 3.50 mmol were added to a solution of E 3 2 naphthyl propenoyl chloride prepared from its corresponding acid 0.757 g 3.50 mmo in anhydrous DCM 15 ml under Ar. After stirring overnight at room temperature the white precipitate was filtered washed with DCM 10 ml and dried under vacuum to give the amide 42 0.960 g 2.78 mmol 80 as a white solid mp 173 175 C. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.30 3H t J 7.2 Hz 4.28 2H t J 7.2 Hz 6.97 1H d J 15.4 Hz 7.54 7.57 2H m 7.7 1H d J 15.4 Hz 7.77 1H dd J 1.6 9.2 Hz 7.84 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.93 7.97 5H m 8.15 1H s 10.58 1H bs . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 14.88 61.09 119.30 122.91 124.18 124.99 127.47 127.83 128.38 129.09 129.36 130.05 130.98 132.82 133.68 134.26 141.64 144.33 164.69 166.01. v solid cm 3357 1702 1660 1619 1607 1591 1521 1403 1282. MS API ES m z 346 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 346.1443 M H .

Methyl 4 3 phenylacryloylamino benzoate 41 . This was obtained as a white solid from cinnamoyl chloride 1.1 g 6.62 mmol and ethyl 4 aminobenzoate 1.10 g 6.62 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 42. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and the mixture was poured in HCl aq 2N 20 ml . The product was extracted with DCM 2 20 ml dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The crude amide 41 was used in the next step without further purification.

Methyl 2 hydroxy 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl acryloylamino benzoate 43 . This was obtained from E 3 2 naphthyl propenoyl chloride 0.320 g 1.48 mmol and methyl 4 amino 2 hydroxybenzoate 0.247 g 1.48 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 42. After stirring overnight at room temperature the white solid was filtered washed with DCM ml and dried under vacuum to give the amide 43 0.400 g 1.15 mmol 79 as an off white solid mp 210 212 C. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 3.86 3H s OCH 6.31 1H d J 15.6 Hz CH 7.17 1H dd J 1.8 8.8 Hz H 6 7.53 1H d J 1.8 Hz H 2 7.54 7.57 2H m 2 CH Ar 7.74 7.79 3H m 3 CH Ar 7.92 7.99 3H m 3 CH Ar 8.15 1H s CH Ar 10.54 1H s NH 10.65 1H s NH . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 52.01 s OCH 106.95 s CH Ar 108.27 s C Ar 111.30 s CH Ar 122.78 s CH 124.21 s CH Ar 127.54 s CH Ar 127.92 s CH Ar 128.40 s CH Ar 129.12 s CH Ar 129.39 s CH Ar 130.12 s CH Ar 131.56 s CH Ar 132.76 s C Ar 133.67 s C Ar 134.30 s C Ar 141.91 s CH 146.35 s C Ar 161.91 s C Ar 164.84 s C O 169.70 s C O . v solid cm 3352 st 1692 st 1662 st 1622 st 1597 st 1507 st 1445 st 1362 st 1265 st 1188 st 1143 st 1095 st . MS API ES m z 346 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 346.1088 M H .

Methyl 4 3 4 chlorophenyl acryloylamino 2 hydroxy benzoate 45 . This was obtained from 4 chlorocinnamoyl chloride 1.80 g 9.47 mmol and methyl 4 amino 2 hydroxybenzoate 1.58 g 9.47 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 42. After stirring for 2 h at room temperature the white precipitate was filtered washed with DCM 10 ml and dried under vacuum to give the amide 45 2.41 g 7.50 mmol 80 as an off white solid mp 208 210 C. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 3.85 3H s OCH 6.80 1H d J 15.8 Hz CH 7.13 1H dd J 2.4 8.8 Hz H 6 7.49 1H d J 2.4 Hz H 2 7.50 2H d J 8.4 Hz 2 CH Ar 7.60 1H d J 15.8 Hz CH 7.65 2H s J 8.4 Hz 2 CH Ar 7.74 1H s J 8.8 Hz H 5 10.50 1H s NH 10.63 1H s OH . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 52.89 s OCH 106.97 s CH Ar 108.32 s C Ar 111.28 s CH Ar 123.20 s CH 129.75 s 2 CH Ar 130.20 s 2 CH Ar 131.47 s CH Ar 134.15 s C Ar 135.14 s C Ar 140.47 s C Ar 146.24 s CH 161.92 s C Ar 164.58 s C O 169.70 s C O . v solid cm 3346 st 1693 st 1660 st 1628 st 1597 st 1507 st 1442 st 1269 st 1189 st . MS API ES m z 330 M Cl H 100 332 M Cl H 332 35 . HRMS API ES m z found 330.0552 M H .

Ethyl 4 4 nitro 3 phenyl butyrylamino benzoate 47 . A mixture of 41 1.340 g 4.44 mmol in nitromethane 4 ml was heated a microwave reactor Biotage Initiator at 100 C. for 15 min in presence of DBU 0.811 g 5.328 mmol 1.2 eq . After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into HCl 1M 10 ml . The product extracted with ethyl acetate 2 15 ml . The organic extracts were collected dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel 7 3 hexanes ethyl acetate R0.20 afforded 47 0.980 g 2.75 mmol 62 as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.37 3H t J 7.6 Hz 2.79 1H dd J 7.2 15.2 Hz 2.86 1H dd J 7.2 15.2 Hz 4.07 1H quint J 7.2 Hz 4.34 2H q J 7.2 Hz 4.72 1H dd J 7.8 12.6 Hz 4.83 1H dd J 6.4 12.4 Hz 6.63 1H d J 16 Hz 7.11 1H t J 7.6 Hz 7.24 7.26 2H m 7.27 7.36 2H m 7.45 1H s 7.47 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.96 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 400 MHz CDCl 14.55 40.67 40.93 61.20 79.50 119.17 126.54 127.53 128.45 129.48 130.98 138.51 141.60 166.30 168.39. MS API ES m z found 357 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 357.1344 M H .

Ethyl 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 nitro butyrylamino benzoate 48 . This was prepared from corresponding amide 42 0.995 g 2.88 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 47. Chromatography on silica gel performed using a FlashMaster 3 purification station 75 25 hexanes ethyl acetate R0.20 afforded 48 0.819 g 2.017 mmol 70 as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.26 3H t J 7.6 Hz 2.85 2.93 2H m 4.10 1H quint J 8.0 Hz 4.23 1H q J 7.2 Hz 5.02 5.10 2H m 7.45 7.48 2H m 7.54 1H dd J 1.6 8.8 Hz 7.62 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.82 7.87 6H m . C NMR 400 MHz CDCl 14.52 40.75 40.79 61.21 79.48 119.21 124.97 126.43 126.65 126.78 126.87 127.92 128.04 129.37 130.94 133.11 133.59 135.89 141.68 166.37 168.54. MS API ES m z found 407 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z 407.1607 M H .

Methyl 2 benzyloxy 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 nitrobutanamido benzoate 49 . Benzyl bromide 0.236 g 1.38 mmol and KCO 0.190 g 1.38 mmol were added to a stirred solution of 43 0.400 g 1.15 mmol in anhydrous DMF 7 ml under Ar. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and the mixture was poured in water 15 ml . The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 15 ml dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The resultant product 44 was stirred in the microwave reactor in presence of DBU 0.192 g 1.27 mmol and nitromethane 7 ml in the microwave at 100 C. for 15 min. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into HCl 1M 10 ml . The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 15 ml dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel 60 40 hexanes ethyl acetate afforded 49 0.413 g 0.83 mmol 72 as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.88 1H dd J 6.8 15.6 Hz 2.96 1H dd J 7.2 15.2 Hz 3.86 3H s 4.26 1H quint J 7.1 Hz 4.83 1H dd J 7.4 12.6 Hz 4.93 1H dd J 6.8 12.4 Hz 5.10 2H s 6.71 1H dd J 2.0 8.8 Hz 7.13 1H bs 7.28 7.32 1H m 7.36 7.39 3H m 7.47 7.52 5H m 7.71 1H bs 7.77 7.86 4H m . C NMR 400 MHz CDCl 40.68 40.81 52.15 70.70 79.44 101.39 111.15 115.91 124.94 126.67 126.79 126.89 127.22 127.93 128.05 128.79 128.72 129.39 133.11 133.60 135.89 136.54 142.68 159.61 166.42 168.57. MS API ES m z found 499 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z 499.1862 M H .

Methyl 2 benzyloxy 4 3 4 chlorophenyl 4 nitrobutanamido benzoate 50 . Benzyl bromide 0.575 g 3.36 mmol and KCO 0.77 g 5.60 mmol were added to a stirred solution of 45 0.9 g 2.80 mmol in anhydrous DMF 20 ml under Ar. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and the mixture was poured in water 20 ml . The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 ml dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The resultant crude 46 was stirred in the microwave reactor in presence of DBU 0.468 g 3.08 mmol and nitromethane 10 mL in the microwave at 100 C. for 15 min. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into HCl 1M 15 ml . The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 ml dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel 80 20 hexanes ethyl acetate afforded 50 0.521 g 1.10 mmol 40 as a white solid mp 81 83 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.75 1H dd J 6.6 15.4 Hz 2.85 1H dd J 7.6 15.6 Hz 3.87 3H s 4.07 1H quint J 6.8 Hz 4.70 1H dd J 7.8 13.0 Hz 4.83 1H dd J 6.4 12.8 Hz 5.17 2H s 6.77 1H dd J 2.0 8.4 Hz 7.19 3H d J 8.0 Hz 7.32 3H d J 8.8 Hz 7.39 2H t J 8.0 Hz 7.51 2H d J 7.2 Hz 7.55 1H bs 7.82 1H d J 8.0 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 39.89 40.59 52.18 70.79 79.25 104.96 111.08 116.14 127.20 128.11 128.76 128.92 129.61 133.17 134.28 136.56 137.04 142.50 159.65 166.36 168.17. v pure sample cm 3329 1695 1591 1549 1530 1245 1090. MS API ES m z 483 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 483.1236 M H .

Ethyl 4 4 amino 3 phenylbutanamido benzoate 51 . Ref. 2000 65 8001. To a stirred solution of nitro compound 47 0.749 g 2.10 mmol and NiCl.6HO 1.99 g 8.40 mmol in methanol 10 ml NaBH 0.719 g 18.93 mmol was added portionwise over 20 min at 0 C. After stirring for 15 at room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Water 20 ml and ethyl acetate 40 ml were added to the solid residue. The resulting mixture was filtered through a celite bed which was washed with ethyl acetate 20 ml . After collecting the filtrate the organic phase was separated dried over NaSOand the solvent removed under reduced pressure to afford amine 51 as an off white solid 0.596 g 1.83 mmol 87 . The amine was used in the next step without further purification.

Ethyl 4 4 amino 3 naphthalen 2 yl butanamido benzoate 52 . This was obtained as a yellow solid 0.819 g 2.178 mmol 89 from nitro compound 48 0.995 g 2.450 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 51. The product amine 52 used in the next step without further purification.

Methyl 4 4 amino 3 naphthalen 2 yl butanamido 2 benzyloxy benzoate 53 . This was obtained as a white solid 0.023 g 0.033 mmol 36 from nitro compound 49 0.043 g 0.091 mmol a similar manner as described for preparation of 51. The product amine 53 was taken to the next step without further purification.

Methyl 4 4 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl butanamido 2 benzyloxy benzoate 54 . This was obtained as yellow solid 0.349 g 0.79 mmol 77 from nitro compound 50 0.488 g 1.033 mmol a similar manner as described for preparation of 51. The crude amine 54 was taken to the next step without further purification.

Ethyl 4 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido 3 phenylbutanamido benzoate 55 . Potassium carbonate 0.325 g 2.35 mmol was added to a solution of 51 0.128 g 0.392 mmol in 1 4 dioxane HO 1 1 5 mL and followed by tosyl chloride 0.074 g 0.392 mmol at room temperature. After stirring for 2 h at room temperature the resulting mixture was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. Water 10 ml was added and the resulting white solid was separated by filtration and dried in vacuo. Pure 55 was obtained as an off white solid 0.122 g 0.254 mmol 65 without further purification mp 135 137 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.36 3H t J 7.2 Hz 2.39 3H s 2.63 1H dd J 8.6 14.6 Hz 2.85 1H dd J 6.2 15.0 Hz 3.05 1H dd J 7.4 13.0 Hz 3.12 1H dd J 6.8 11.8 Hz 4.32 2H q J 7.2 Hz 7.17 7.19 3H m 7.23 7.27 2H m 7.31 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.54 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.65 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.90 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 14.57 21.73 40.65 42.04 47.77 61.07 119.15 127.14 127.75 127.77 129.29 130.07 130.94 136.79 140.74 142.12 143.97 166.36 170.24. v solid cm 3324 3191 1707 1675 1597 1534 1270 1157 1105. MS API ES m z 481 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 481.1801 M H .

Ethyl 4 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido 3 phenylbutanamido benzoate 56 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.182 g 0.326 mmol 77 from 51 0.137 g 0.420 mmol and 4 phenoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride 0.112 g 0.420 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 55 mp 147 149 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.36 3H t J 7.6 Hz 2.63 1H dd J 8.4 14.8 Hz 2.84 1H dd J 7.4 13.2 Hz 3.09 1H dd J 7.2 12.8 Hz 3.16 1H dd J 7.2 12.4 Hz 4.31 2H q J 6.8 Hz 7.00 2H d J 7.2 Hz 7.06 2H dd J 0.8 8.8 Hz 7.18 7.22 3H m 7.23 7.26 3H m 7.39 741 2H m 7.73 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.89 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 14.57 40.73 42.06 47.80 61.07 117.92 119.15 120.52 125.25 127.75 127.80 129.32 129.35 130.41 130.95 133.27 140.74 142.08 155.23 161.95 166.34 170.20. v solid cm 3322 1702 1596 1532 1487 1407 1274 1243 1151 1104 695. MS API ES m z 559 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 559.1906 M H .

Ethyl 4 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido 3 naphthalen 2 yl butanamido benzoate 57 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.058 g 0.109 mmol from 52 0.138 g 0.375 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 55. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.34 3H t J 7.2 Hz 2.34 3H s 2.73 1H dd J 8.2 14.6 Hz 2.92 1H dd J 6.4 14.8 Hz 3.17 3.28 2H m 3.47 3.52 1H m 4.30 2H q J 7.2 Hz CHCH 7.19 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.32 1H dd J 1.4 8.6 Hz 7.40 7.45 2H m 7.51 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.59 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.60 1H s 7.73 7.79 3H m 7.90 2H d J 9.2 Hz . v solid cm 2958 1706 1596 1531 1273 1171 1152 1105 1020. MS API ES m z 531 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 531.1962 M H .

Ethyl 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoate 58 . The compound was obtained as a white solid in 0.100 g 0.164 mmol 73 from 52 in a similar manner as described for preparation of 55 mp 141 143 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.34 3H t J 7.2 Hz 2.75 1H dd J 8.4 14.8 Hz 2.92 1H dd J 6.6 15.0 Hz 3.25 3.29 2H m 3.34 3.53 1H m 4.30 2H q J 7.2 Hz 6.61 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.05 2H dd J 1.2 8.8 Hz 7.20 7.23 1H m 7.34 1H dd J 1.4 8.6 Hz 7.40 7.45 4H m 7.54 2H d J 8.8 Hz 6.64 1H bs 7.67 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.75 7.90 3H m 7.87 2H d J 9.2 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 14.55 40.68 42.12 47.84 61.05 117.89 119.19 120.51 125.22 125.67 126.21 126.35 126.53 126.73 127.85 127.96 129.09 129.83 130.39 130.90 132.85 133.27 133.61 138.16 142.13 155.24 161.90 166.34 170.26. v solid cm 1707 1596 1531 1486 1275 1243 1151 1098. MS API ES m z 609 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 609.2058 M H .

4 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido 3 phenylbutanamido benzoic acid 59 . A solution of the ester 55 0.106 g 0.220 mmol in methanol 3 ml and THF 3 ml was stirred in presence of NaOH aq 1M 1 ml at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. HCl aq 1M 1.5 ml was added and the white precipitate was filtered washed with water 5 ml and dried under vacuum. Pure 59 was obtained as a white solid 0.085 g 0.188 mmol 85 without further purification mp 225 227 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.39 3H s 2.62 1H dd J 8.4 14.8 Hz 2.35 1H dd J 6.6 14.6 Hz 3.05 1H dd J 8.0 13.0 Hz 3.12 1H dd J 7.2 12.8 Hz 7.16 7.19 3H m 7.24 7.27 2H m 7.30 2H d J 7.6 Hz 7.53 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.65 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.91 2H d J 9.2 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 21.61 40.65 42.32 48.33 118.95 125.61 127.18 127.26 128.38 128.96 130.02 130.98 138.09 142.47 143.22 143.72 167.55 170.64. v solid cm 3316 3277 1668 1595 1531 1408 1317 1254 1152. MS API ES m z 451 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 451.1334 M H .

4 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido 3 phenylbutanamido benzoic acid 60 . This was obtained as a white solid 0.120 g 0.226 mmol 83 from the ester 56 0.152 0.272 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59 mp 187 189 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.63 1H dd J 8.8 14.8 Hz 2.84 1H dd J 6.6 14.6 Hz 3.09 1H dd J 7.8 13.0 Hz 3.16 1H dd J 6.8 12.8 Hz 7.00 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.06 2H dd J 1.2 8.4 Hz 7.16 7.28 6H m 7.39 743 2H m 7.53 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.73 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.90 2H d J 8.4 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz CDOD 40.86 42.63 47.85 117.47 119.00 120.09 124.77 125.74 126.70 127.66 128.46 129.12 130.10 130.49 134.36 141.39 142.91 155.62 161.59 168.23 171.43. v solid cm 3060 1681 1596 1585 1487 1318 1294 1251 11511. MS API ES m z found 529 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 529.1433 M H .

4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoic acid 61 . This was obtained as a white solid 0.052 g 0.090 mmol 70 from 57 0.079 g 0.129 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59 mp 183 184 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.65 1H dd J 8.4 14.8 Hz 2.82 1H dd J 6.8 14.8 Hz 3.11 3.20 2H m 3.40 3.44 1H m 6.81 2H d J 8.4 Hz 6.94 6.96 2H m 7.10 7.14 1H m 7.25 1H dd J 1.6 8.8 Hz 7.29 7.35 4H m 7.41 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.54 1H bs 7.58 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.65 7.68 3H m 7.78 2H d J 8.4 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz CDOD 40.82 42.70 47.90 117.34 119.00 120.115 124.76 125.53 125.66 125.91 126.54 127.39 127.53 128.12 129.06 130.09 130.51 132.92 133.74 134.38 138.80 142.80 155.55 161.50 171.36. v solid cm 3061 1683 1599 1584 1514 1486 1304 1240 1147. MS API ES m z found 579 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 579.1585 M H .

4 4 4 methylphenylsulfonamido 3 naphthalen 2 yl butanamido benzoic acid 62 . This was obtained as a white solid 0.021 g 0.042 mmol 65 from 58 0.034 g 0.064 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59 mp. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.34 3H s 2.73 1H dd J 8.2 14.6 Hz 2.91 1H dd J 6.4 14.8 Hz 3.20 1H dd J 7.6 12.8 Hz 3.25 3.29 1H m 3.47 3.53 1H m 7.19 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.32 1H dd J 1.6 8.8 Hz 7.39 7.45 2H m 7.51 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.59 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.60 1H s 7.73 7.79 3H m 7.88 2H d J 9.2 Hz . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 21.60 42.52 48.31 118.92 125.73 126.20 126.65 126.88 126.95 127.13 128.09 128.20 128.41 130.18 130.95 132.73 133.62 138.16 140.03 143.15 143.67 167.57 170.61. v solid cm 1680 1595 1530 1408 1305 1252 1152. MS API ES m z 5019 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 501.14831 M H .

Methyl 2 benzyloxy 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoate 63 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.023 g 0.032 mmol 36 from amine 53 0.043 g 0.091 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 55. The crude ester was used in the next step without further purification.

Methyl 2 hydroxy 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoate 64 . A solution of 63 0.023 g 0.032 mmol in methanol 1 ml was stirred in presence of ammonium formate 0.089 g and 10 Pd C 0.023 g under H at room temperature for 2 days. The solution was then filtered through a celite bed and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to afford ester 64 0.014 g 0.0230 mmol 70 as yellow solid which was used in the next step without further purification.

2 hydroxy 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoic acid 65 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.0063 g 0.011 mmol 50 ester 64 0.013 g 0.021 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59. mp 153 155 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.63 1H dd J 14.6 8.2 Hz 2.86 1H dd J 15.0 6.6 Hz 3.13 1H dd J 13.2 7.6 Hz 3.16 3.20 1H m 3.37 3.48 1H m 6.77 6.83 3H m 6.94 6.96 2H m 7.08 7.14 2H m 7.24 1H dd J 8.4 1.66 Hz 7.29 7.35 4H m 7.53 1H bs 7.57 7.60 1H m 7.66 7.69 3H m 9.80 1H bs . MS API ES m z 595 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 595.1537 M H .

Methyl 2 benzyloxy 4 3 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido benzoate 66 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.205 g 0.304 mmol 78 from the amine 54 0.137 g 0.391 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 55. The crude product sulfonamide was taken to the next step without further purification.

Methyl 4 3 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido 2 hydroxybenzoate 67 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.106 g 0.181 mmol 67 from benzyl ether 66 0.183 g 0.27 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 64. The crude ester 67 was taken to the next step without further purification.

4 3 4 Chlorophenyl 4 4 phenoxyphenylsulfonamido butanamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 68 . This was obtained as an off white solid 0.047 g 0.082 mmol 67 from the ester 67 0.076 g 0.130 mmol in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59. The crude acid 68 was taken to the next step without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.59 1H dd J 14.8 8.8 Hz 2.80 1H dd J 14.8 6.8 Hz 3.12 2H m 6.90 1H dd J 10.4 2.0 Hz 6.99 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.07 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.16 7.27 6H m 7.40 7.44 2H m 7.69 7.74 3H m . MS API ES m z 579 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 579.1000 M H .

Ethyl 4 3 naphthalen 2 yl propanamido benzoate 69 . Ref. 2000 65 8001. To a stirred solution of amide 42 0.086 g 0.249 mmol and NiCl.6HO 0.118 g 0.498 mmol 2 eq in methanol 8 ml and THF 4 ml NaBH 0.028 g 0.749 mmol 4 eq was added portionwise over 20 min at 0 C. After stirring for 1 h at room temperature the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure. Water 10 ml and ethyl acetate 10 ml was added. The resulting mixture was filtered through a celite bed which was washed with ethyl acetate 20 ml . After collecting the filtrate the organic phase was separated dried over NaSOand the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to give the pure product 69 as a white solid 0.066 g 0.190 mmol 79 mp 119 121 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.38 3H t J 7.2 Hz CHC 2.75 2H t J 7.2 Hz CCO 3.23 2H t J 7.2 Hz CAr 4.35 2H q J 7.2 Hz CCH 7.12 1H bs N 7.37 1H dd J 1.6 8.4 Hz CH Ar 7.42 7.50 4H m 4 CH Ar 7.69 1H bs CH Ar 7.76 7.82 3H m 3 CH Ar 7.97 2H d J 9.2 Hz 2 CH Ar . MS API ES m z 348 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 348.1602 M H .

Ethyl 4 3 phenylpropanamido benzoate 70 . This was as obtained from 41 in a similar manner as described for preparation of 69. The crude product 70 was taken to the next step without further purification mp 109 111 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3H t J Hz CHC 2H t J Hz CCO 2H t J Hz C Ar 2H q J 7 Hz CCH 1H bs N 7.37 1H dd J 1.6 8.4 Hz CH Ar 7.42 7.50 4H m 4 CH Ar 7.69 1H bs CH Ar 7.76 7.82 3H m 3 CH Ar 7.97 2H d J 9.2 Hz 2 CH Ar . MS API ES m z 298 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 298.1444 M H .

4 3 Naphthalen 2 yl propanamido benzoic acid 71 . The pure compound was obtained as a white solid in 73 yield from 69 in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59 mp 255 257 C. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.69 2H t J 7.2 Hz CCO 3.07 2H t J 7.6 Hz CAr 7.28 7.35 3H m 3 CH Ar 7.53 2H d J 8.4 Hz 2 CH Ar 7.61 1H bs CH Ar 7.66 7.71 3H m 3 CH Ar 7.84 2H d J 9.2 Hz 2 CH Ar . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 31.53 s HCO 38.60 s HAr 118.95 s 2 CH Ar 125.99 s CH Ar 126.71 s CH Ar 126.80 s CH Ar 127.91 s CH Ar 127.98 s CH Ar 128.15 s CH Ar 128.46 s CH Ar 131.03 s 2 CH Ar 132.34 s C Ar 133.82 s C Ar 139.41 s C Ar 143.85 s C Ar 167.65 s C O 171.62 s C O . v pure sample cm 3298 st OH 1701 md C O 1674 st C O 1607 md 1595 md 1530 st 1429 1405 1293. MS API ES m z 318 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 318.11327 M H .

4 3 Phenylpropanamido benzoic acid 72 . This was obtained pure as a white solid in 76 yield from 69 in a similar manner as described for preparation of 59. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.68 2H t J 7.6 Hz 2.99 2H t J 8.4 Hz 7.16 7.19 1H m 7.23 7.26 4H m 7.63 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.94 2H d J 8.4 Hz . v pure sample cm 3310 1666 1607 md 1593 1522 1428 1404 1318. MS API ES m z 268 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z 268.0979 M H .

4 3 Phenylpropanamido 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 73 . A solution of the chlorocinnamide 45 0.118 g 0.367 mmol in methanol 6 ml and THF 6 ml was stirred in presence of ammonium formate 0.231 g and 10 Pd C 0.010 g at room temperature under Ar. After stirring overnight the solution was filtered through a celite bed and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to afford an off white solid. The solution of the crude compound in methanol 10 ml and THF 4 ml was stirred in presence of NaOH aq 1 M 3 ml at 100 C. for 2 h. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting aqueous solution acidified with HCl aq 1 M until pH 1. The precipitate was collected by filtration washed with HO 3 ml and dried in vacuo. Pure 22 was obtained as an off white solid without further purification 0.045 g 0.165 mmol 45 mp 165 167 C. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.61 2H t J 8.0 Hz 2.88 2H t J 8.0 Hz 7.00 1H dd J 8.8 2.4 Hz 7.21 7.33 5H m 7.67 2H d J 8.8 Hz . MS API ES m z 284 M H 100 HRMS API ES m z found 284.097194 M H .

6 Methoxycarbonyl 2 naphthoic acid 74 . A solution of KOH 0.459 g 8.18 mmol in methanol 1.5 ml was added to a suspension of dimethyl 2 6 naphthlene dicarboxylate 2.0 g 8.18 mmol in dioxane 20 ml . The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 4 h cooled to room temperature and a solid residue was rinsed with diethyl ether 10 ml . The solid was dissolved in water and treated with HCl aq 2M to pH 3. The precipitate was filtered washed with water dried under vacuum to provide pure 74 as a white solid 1.55 g 6.72 mmol 82 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 3.91 3H s 8.02 2H dd J 8.4 Hz 8.22 2H dd J 8.4 Hz 8.66 2H dd J 10.4 Hz .

4 hydroxy 3 6 methoxycarbonyl 2 naphthamido benzoic acid 75 . A solution of 3 amino 4 hydroxybenzoic acid 0.142 g 0.927 mmol and the acyl chloride prepared from acid 74 in 84 yield 0.259 g 1.019 mmol in DCM 5 ml and pyridine 6 ml was stirred at room temperature for under at for 24 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. HCl aq 4 M 6 ml was added and the precipitate was filtered washed with water 10 ml and dried under vacuum. Trituration with methanol 15 ml and acetone 10 ml afforded 75 as an off white solid 0.084 g 0.230 mml 25 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 3.92 3H s 7.00 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.67 1H d J 8.8 Hz 8.04 8.10 2H m 8.16 8.27 2H m 8.33 1H s 8.70 8.66 2H m 9.80 1H s 10.55 1H bs . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 53.09 116.18 122.59 125.94 126.45 126.26 126.80 128.45 128.48 129.19 130.35 130.40 130.93 134.13 134.66 134.94 154.61 165.85 166.84 167.73. v solid cm 3059 1716 1666 1592 1541 1283 1247 1132 759.

The following experiments and results are described and shown in Siddiquee K. et al. 2007 May 104 18 7391 7396 Epub 2007 Apr. 26 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Nuclear extracts containing activated Stat1 Stat3 and Stat5 proteins were pre incubated with increasing concentrations of compounds for 30 minutes at room temperature prior to incubation with radiolabeled hSIE probe that binds Stat1 and Stat3 or MGFe probe that binds Stat1 and Stat5 and subjecting to EMSA analysis. Cell lysates containing activated Stat3 were pre incubated with NSC 74859 in the presence and absence of increasing amount of cell lysates containing inactive Stat3 protein monomer prior to incubation with radiolabeled hSIE probe and subjecting to EMSA analysis. Nuclear extract preparations from v Src transformed NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts treated for the times indicated in FIG. 2 of Siddiquee K et al. 2007 or human breast cancer MDA MB 231 and MDA MB 468 treated for 48 hours with 100 M NSC 74859 were incubated with radiolabeled hSIE probe and subjected to EMSA analysis. SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis of whole cell lysates from NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts treated with or without NSC 74859 100 M 48 hours for pTyr705Stat3 or Stat3. SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis of cell lysates prepared from NIH3T3 v Src or EGF stimulated NIH3T3 hEGFR was carried out using antibodies against pShc pErk1 2 pp42 pp44 Erk or actin or antiphosphotyrosine antibody clone 4G10. Controls included nuclear extracts untreated with compounds and nuclear extracts or lysates prepared from untreated cells.

Virtual high throughput screening relied upon computational modeling of the native pTyr peptide sequence APY LKT SEQ ID NO 1 from one Stat3 monomer bound within the SH2 domain of the second Stat3 monomer as observed for the Stat3 dimer protein bound to DNA Becker S. et al. 1998 394 145 151 . For the docking studies DNA was removed and only one of the two monomers was employed. The approach was used to evaluate the NCI Diversity Set and Plated Set chemical libraries. Three dimensional structures for compounds from the NCI Diversity Set and NCI Plated Set were downloaded from NCI s DTP website presented in Siddiquee K. et al. 2007 processed with LigPrep 36 available from Schr dinger L.L.C. to produce 2 392 3D structures for the Diversity Set and 150 829 3D structures for the Plated Set. These structures were docked using GLIDE 2.7 in SP Standard Precision mode into the pTyr peptide binding site within the SH2 domain of the monomer employed. The best scoring compounds 74 compounds selected via visual inspection from the top 100 compounds with the best score from the Diversity Set and the top 200 compounds from the Plated Set that then were filtered by MW 10 to yield 122 compounds were selected for evaluation in in vitro Stat3 DNA binding assay. Nuclear extracts containing activated STATs were incubated for 30 minutes with or without increasing concentrations of compounds prior to incubation with radiolabeled hSIE probe that binds to Stat1 and Stat3 or MGFe probe that binds Stat1 and Stat5 and subjected to EMSA analysis. Results for a representative number of compounds show differential inhibition of DNA binding activity of Stat3 following preincubation of nuclear extracts with compounds Table 4 data not shown for the remainder of the 194 compounds evaluated in the DNA binding assay . Potent inhibition of Stat3 DNA binding activity by the NCI Plated Set compounds NSC 42067 NSC 59263 NSC 74859 and NSC 75912 was observed. Other notable potent inhibitors of Stat3 DNA binding activity from the Plated Set include NSC 11421 NSC 91529 and NSC 263435 Table 4 . A few compounds with weak inhibitory activity were also identified from the NCI Diversity Set data not shown . To determine selectivity against other STAT family members selected active compounds were evaluated in in vitro DNA binding assay of the three STAT proteins Stat1 Stat3 and Stat5 in nuclear extracts prepared from EGF stimulated NIH3T3 hEGFR fibroblasts that activates all three STATs. EMSA analyses of the DNA binding activities of STAT proteins show that of the representative compounds NSC 74859 preferentially inhibits Stat3 over Stat1 or Stat5 DNA binding activity Table 4 while NSC 42067 and NSC 59263 preferentially inhibit Stat3 and Stat5 over that of Stat1 Table 4 . In recognition of the role of constitutive Stat5 in hematological and other cancers the inhibition of Stat5 DNA binding activity could have clinical implications. Where Stat1 DNA binding activity was inhibited as with NSC 42067 and NSC 59263 it occurred at concentrations 3 4 times higher than concentrations that inhibited Stat3 or Stat5 Table 4 . In contrast NSC 75912 preferentially inhibits Stat1 over Stat3 or Stat5 Table 4 . For the remaining compounds no appreciable pattern of specificity of inhibition of the STAT family members was observed Table 4 and data not shown . These studies identify NSC 42067 NSC 59263 and NSC 74859 from the NCI chemical libraries as binders within the SH2 domain of Stat3 and which potently inhibit Stat3 DNA binding activity. The best of these compounds is NSC 74859 re synthesized as a pure sample named BG2065p or S3I 201 .

Table 5 shows half maximal inhibitory concentration IC for inhibition of STAT3 dimerization as measured by the EMSA assay Yu C. L. et al. 1995 269 81 83 Garcia R. et al. 2001 20 2499 2513 Turkson J. et al. 1998 18 2545 2552 .

All patents patent applications provisional applications and publications referred to or cited herein supra or infra are incorporated by reference in their entirety including all figures and tables to the extent they are not inconsistent with the explicit teachings of this specification.

