---

title: Dynamic web content via contextually aware text messaging
abstract: A system may provide dynamic web-based content in conjunction with text message content. A user may use text messages to interact with web content (e.g., to select hyperlinks, request information, provide information, etc.). A content server may process the text messages, sent by the user, in order to determine web content to provide to the user. The text messages may be authenticated by a message relay server, thereby eliminating the need for the content server to request authentication or identification information from the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544746&OS=09544746&RS=09544746
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09544746
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141229
---
 Text messaging such as Short Message Service SMS message or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messages is a useful technique that allows mobile telephones to send and receive information. Businesses often use text messages to provide notifications to users such as flight status notifications delivery status notifications sports scores and or other types of information. Businesses also sometimes use web content such as web pages to provide information to users. Text messaging and web content are generally accessed by users via separate interfaces e.g. a messaging application for text messaging and a web browser application for accessing web pages .

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Some implementations describe herein may provide an enhanced messaging web content presentation application herein simply referred to as an enhanced messaging application via which a user device such as a mobile telephone may present dynamic web content based on text messages sent by the user device. The enhanced messaging interface may allow content providers e.g. businesses advertisers sports teams etc. to provide rich content to users along with flexible options for users to interact with the content e.g. users may interact with web content by sending text messages in addition to or in lieu of selecting links in the web content . The enhanced messaging interface may enhance the user experience as some users may prefer to type input as opposed to other forms of interaction e.g. selecting menu items clicking buttons etc. . Further since text messaging techniques may be used authentication of the user device may be performed without requiring the user to provide user names password etc. thereby further enhancing the user experience e.g. the back end of a wireless network may perform authentication based on received text messages .

In this example the content provider i.e. the sender of the text message may be associated with the example messaging short code e.g. a telephone number that is shorter than a traditional telephone number 1234. Upon receiving the text the user device e.g. an enhanced messaging application running on the user device may determine that the short code is associated with enhanced messaging. For instance the content provider may have previously registered as an enhanced messaging content provider. Web content associated with the content provider may be retried by accessing a link such as a uniform resource locator URL that is associated with the short code. Additionally or alternatively the text may include a URL to web content.

The web content may be for example a web page that includes text images videos sound and or other content. As further shown the user device e.g. the enhanced messaging application may concurrently display the received text and the retrieved web content. For instance a user interface of the enhanced messaging application may include a web content pane and a text messaging pane. The web content pane may display web content such as the web content retrieved via the URL. The text messaging pane may display the received text message as well as other texts sent to and or from the same short code .

As shown in the user may send a text message Other scores using the enhanced messaging application. The text message may be received by a message relay server associated with a wireless telecommunications network. The message relay server may authenticate the user device based on an identifier and or other authentication information included in the text message. The message relay server may provide the content of the text message e.g. the words Other scores as well as an indication that the user device has been authenticated to the content provider. The content provider may process the content of the message e.g. may determine that the user is requesting scores from other games and may provide updated web content to the user device. For instance as shown the content provider may provide other sports scores and the enhanced messaging application may display the sports scores in the web content pane.

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice environment may include additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . For example while not shown environment may include devices that facilitate or enable communication between various components shown in environment such as routers modems gateways switches hubs etc. Alternatively or additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environments . Devices of environment may interconnect with each other and or other devices via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections. In some implementations one or more devices of environment may be physically integrated in and or may be physically attached to one or more other devices of environment .

User device may include any computation and communication device that is capable of communicating with one or more networks e.g. wireless network PDN etc. . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a device that combines a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a television a set top device STD a personal gaming system a wearable device and or another type of computation and communication device. User device may communicate with other devices such as one or more other user devices message relay server content server URL MDN repository etc. via wireless network and or PDN .

Wireless network may include one or more networks via which one or more devices shown in may communicate. For example wireless network may include an evolved packet system EPS that includes a Long Term Evolution LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC network that operate based on a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The LTE network may be or may include a radio access network RAN that includes one or more base stations some or all of which may take the form of an eNodeB eNB via which user device and or another device may communicate with the EPC network. The EPC network may include one or more serving gateways SGWs mobility management entities MMEs and or packet data network PDN gateways PGWs and may enable user device to communicate with PDN and or an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS core network. The IMS core network may manage authentication session initiation account information a user profile etc. associated with user device .

Wireless network may include one or more wireless networks in addition to or in lieu of an LTE network. For example wireless network may include a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 1X network a second generation 2G wireless network a third generation 3G wireless network a fourth generation 4G wireless network a fifth generation 5G wireless network a Wi Fi wireless network e.g. a network that operates according to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 based standard and or another wireless network.

Message relay server may include one or more network devices that receive text messages e.g. SMS messages MMS messages or other types of messages and forward the text messages to an intended destination. For instance message relay server may communicate with components of wireless network such as an SMS center SMSC an MMS center MMSC etc. In some implementations message relay server may communicate with components of wireless network using a suitable technique such as using the Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol and or via an MM7 interface. The message relay server may forward text messages sent by user device toward content server and vice versa. In some implementations message relay server and content server may communicate via PDN e.g. via an Internet Protocol IP connection and or another type of protocol .

PDN may include a packet switched network such as the Internet. Additionally or alternatively PDN may include one or more other types of networks such as a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a private enterprise network etc.

Content server may include one or more server devices that may provide content such as web content and or text message content to user device . Content server may additionally or alternatively receive input from user device e.g. as received via text message and or another type of message and may process the input in order to provide a response to user device e.g. by way of web content text message content or in some other manner . Content server may for instance provide web content to user device via an IP based connection and may send and or receive text messages to and or from user device via message relay server .

URL MDN repository may include one or more server devices that store information associating mobile directory numbers MDNs to URLs. For example URL MDN repository may store MDNs telephone numbers short codes and or other identifiers associated with one or more content providers e.g. with one or more content servers . A particular URL for a particular content provider may correspond to a web address of content server associated with the content provider. While the term URL is used herein in some implementations other location identifiers or links may be used to indicate the logical location of a web based resource. For example IP addresses uniform resource identifiers URIs logical names and or other types of location identifiers may be used. The MDN or short code may correspond to a telephone number from which the content provider sends text messages. URL MDN repository may for example receive information linking a URL to an MDN as part of a registration process of content server e.g. from a content provider associated with content server and or an administrator associated with wireless network or URL MDN repository .

Messaging interface may send and or receive text messages such as SMS messages or MMS messages. In some implementations messaging interface may send other types of messages such as messages that include identifying and or authentication information based on which the identity of user device can be verified. Messaging interface may in some implementations send and or receive SMS messages e.g. to and or from message relay server via the SMPP protocol and may send and or receive MMS messages over an MM1 interface.

Web interface may send and or receive web content e.g. via an IP interface an implementation of an application programming interface API and or some other type of interface to and or from content server . For example web interface may receive web pages video content audio content image content data files and or other types of content from content server and or from another source. Web interface may also output information to content server such as information related to user interactions with web content e.g. selections of links on web pages etc. .

Enhanced messaging application may present a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface GUI that presents text message content e.g. as received via messaging interface and web content e.g. as received via web interface . For instance enhanced messaging application may present the text message content in one pane while presenting the web content in another pane. Example arrangements of the text messaging pane and the web content pane are described below with respect to for example . The web content pane may include web browser functionality e.g. the capability to receive web pages and or other web based content and provide for user interactions such as selections of links input of URLs to retrieve etc. .

MDN URL lookup module may identify whether web content is associated with a received text message and may obtain a URL for the web content if the text message is associated with web content. For example MDN URL lookup module may identify a telephone number e.g. an MDN a short code etc. of a sender of text messages received by user device . MDN URL lookup module may communicate with URL MDN repository in order to determine whether the telephone number is associated with a URL. Additionally or alternatively MDN URL lookup module may store URLs that are associated with telephone numbers e.g. may store a data structure similar to data structure described above . For instance MDN URL lookup module may cache information received from URL MDN repository and may check the cached information prior to contacting URL MDN repository . Web interface and enhanced messaging application may use the URL determined by MDN URL lookup module in order to retrieve web content associated with a text message.

For instance the first time a text message is received from a particular sender MDN URL lookup module may determine a URL associated with the sender. In some implementations MDN URL lookup module may contact URL MDN repository even if MDN URL lookup module has previously received URL information for a particular telephone number. For instance if the cached information is stale e.g. has been received at least a threshold amount of time prior to a present text message MDN URL lookup module may contact URL MDN repository . Contacting URL MDN repository again may be useful in situations where the sender of the text message has provided a new URL. In some implementations the text message received via messaging interface may include a URL. In some such implementations MDN URL lookup module may determine that the included URL should be used notwithstanding information that may have been stored by MDN URL lookup module or that may be received from URL MDN repository .

As shown process may include receiving at a text message. For example as described above with respect to messaging interface user device may receive a text message e.g. an SMS message an MMS message etc. from content server .

Process may also include identifying at that a sender of the text message is associated with enhanced messaging. For example as described above with respect to MDN URL lookup module user device may determine whether a telephone number of the sender of the text message is associated with a URL e.g. by checking a local cache and or by contacting URL MDN repository .

Process may further include retrieving at web content associated with the message sender. For example as described above with respect to web interface user device may retrieve web content from content server that corresponds to the URL identified at .

Process may additionally include presenting at web content and the text message in an enhanced messaging application. For example as described above with respect to enhanced messaging application user device may present the web content and the text message in an enhanced messaging interface.

Process may also include receiving at user input via the enhanced messaging application. For example user device may receive a text message via enhanced messaging application inputted by a user of user device . The text message may correspond to options provided by content server . Some example options and interactions are described below with respect to . In some implementations the user input may correspond to an interaction with the web content e.g. clicking a link on a web page .

Process may further include outputting at the user input via text message. For example as described above with respect to messaging interface user device may send a text message to content server e.g. via message relay server that includes information regarding the user input received at . For instance if the user input includes text provided via a text messaging pane of enhanced messaging application the text message outputted at may include the text inputted by the user. In some implementations if the user input includes an interaction with the web content the text message outputted at may include information indicating the interaction. For example assume that the user selects a link on the web content to a particular URL. In some implementations enhanced messaging application may forgo outputting a request e.g. a hypertext transport protocol HTTP GET request via web interface for web content at the URL and may instead send a text message via messaging interface to content server . Based on the user input received at content server may output updated web content.

Process may additionally include receiving at updated web content that is based on the user input. For example as described above with respect to web interface user device may receive updated web content outputted by content server in response to the user input provided at . Process may also include presenting at the updated web content via the enhanced messaging application.

Messaging interface may send and or receive text messages e.g. to and or from user device . Text messages received from user device may be received via message relay server . Messaging interface may in some implementations communicate with message relay server using the SMPP protocol and or via an MM7 interface. Text messages received from user device e.g. via message relay server may be considered authenticated or trusted inasmuch as the identity of user device may be verified by message relay server before being forwarded to messaging interface . Thus it may not be necessary to request additional authentication information from user device when a text message has been received from user device e.g. a text message requesting personal or sensitive information .

Web interface may send and or receive web content e.g. to and or from user device . For example web interface may include an IP interface an implementation of an API and or some other type of interface.

Content processing module may determine the content that should be sent to user device . For instance content processing module may receive information regarding user interactions from messaging interface and or web interface . As mentioned above text messages received via messaging interface may include information identifying user device and the identifying information may be considered trusted. Content processing module may also maintain a context of user interactions. For example content processing module may initially determine that a generic web page should be sent to user device e.g. based on an initial request from user device for web content . Content processing module may subsequently receive a text message from user device e.g. a request for information verify the identity of user device and provide web content in response to the text message e.g. the requested information via web interface . Additionally or alternatively content processing module may provide a text message via messaging interface in response.

As shown user device may at output a request to URL MDN repository for a URL associated with the telephone number of content server . Additionally or alternatively as described above user device may check a local cache to determine the URL. URL MDN repository may provide at the URL associated with the telephone number of content server .

User device may use the URL to request at web content from content server . Content server may process the request and provide at web content that corresponds to the URL. User device may in some implementations present the web content and the text message in an enhanced messaging interface.

User device may output at a text message to content server e.g. via message relay server . Message relay server may authenticate the text message and may forward at the text message as well as the identity of user device and or an indication that the identity of user device has been verified . Content server may based on the received text message provide at updated or additional web content to user device .

As shown in text message may be sent by user device requesting the status of the food order. Updated web content may be received and displayed in the enhanced messaging interface showing the requested status. Identifying information associated with text message e.g. as verified by message relay server may be used to identify the food order.

As shown in text message may be sent by user device requesting a list of commands. Updated web content may be received and displayed in the enhanced messaging interface showing the requested command list. Updated web content may include link . As mentioned above in some implementations the enhanced messaging application may output a text message e.g. a text message with the word STATUS when a user selects the link in lieu of outputting an HTTP request based on the selection of the link.

As shown in text message may be sent by user device removing an item from the food order. The text message may be processed and upon successful removal of the item text message may be sent to user device and displayed in the text messaging pane. Further updated web content reflecting the removed food item may be shown in the web content pane.

As shown in text message may be sent by user device . Text message may not be recognized by content server e.g. may be an invalid command and text message may be sent to user device and displayed in the text messaging pane indicating that the last message was not understood.

While examples above have been described in the context of identifying a URL based on a received text message in some implementations user device may determine that a URL is associated with an enhanced messaging interface. Process shown in illustrates an example of presenting web content and text messaging content based on identifying that a URL is associated with an enhanced messaging interface.

As shown process may include receiving at web content and or a request for web content. For example user device may receive web content via a web browser an enhanced messaging application and or via some other process. As another example user device may receive a request for web content e.g. a user may type a URL a user may select a hyperlink a URL may be received via text message etc. .

Process may further include identifying at that the web content is associated with enhanced messaging and identifying at a telephone number associated with the web content. For example user device may contact URL MDN repository and or a local cache e.g. a data structure similar to data structure in order to identify that a URL of the web content is associated with a telephone number and is therefore associated with enhanced messaging . Process may also include presenting at the web content and a text messaging interface in an enhanced messaging application e.g. in a manner similar to that described herein .

As also shown in the enhanced messaging application of some implementations may be used to upload pictures. For example the web content shown in may correspond to thumbnails of pictures associated with an account of a user. As shown a picture may be sent e.g. via MMS through the enhanced messaging application. Upon receiving the picture content server associated with the web content may update the web content to reflect that the picture has been successfully uploaded e.g. may show thumbnail of the picture in the web content may display text NEW showing that the picture has been uploaded etc. . Additionally or alternatively a text message may be sent to user device indicating that the picture has been uploaded.

In the video play mode the web content pane and the text messaging pane may be replaced by a video play pane in which the video is displayed e.g. with black letterbox bars in situations where the aspect ratio of the video is different from the aspect ratio of the display screen of user device . Although not shown in the video play mode may include video controls such as Play Pause Forward Rewind etc. In some implementations the video play mode may include an option to return to split screen mode in which for example the web content pane and the text messaging pane are displayed . For example as shown tapping the display screen may cause video play mode to be exited.

For instance illustrates an example arrangement in which the web content pane and the text messaging pane are separated by a vertical separator. In this arrangement an area for inputting a text message may be present below or within the web content pane and the text messaging pane.

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

For example while series of blocks and or signals have been described with regard to the order of the blocks and or signals may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks and or signals may be performed in parallel.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Further while certain connections or devices are shown in practice additional fewer or different connections or devices may be used. Furthermore while various devices and networks are shown separately in practice the functionality of multiple devices may be performed by a single device or the functionality of one device may be performed by multiple devices. Further multiple ones of the illustrated networks may be included in a single network or a particular network may include multiple networks. Further while some devices are shown as communicating with a network some such devices may be incorporated in whole or in part as a part of the network.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

Some implementations are described herein in conjunction with thresholds. The term greater than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term greater than or equal to or similar terms . Similarly the term less than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term less than or equal to or similar terms . As used herein exceeding a threshold or similar terms may be used interchangeably with being greater than a threshold being greater than or equal to a threshold being less than a threshold being less than or equal to a threshold or other similar terms depending on the context in which the threshold is used.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. An instance of the use of the term and as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Similarly an instance of the use of the term or as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the terms one single only or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

