---

title: Notifying a user of an available media object
abstract: Among other features, notification is presented on a mobile device to a user to advise the user of the availability of a media object that (a) has been received from a server and stored on the mobile device without the user having been aware of the receipt or storage, or (b) has newly become available for streaming from the server to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08937543&OS=08937543&RS=08937543
owner: Penthera Partners, Inc.
number: 08937543
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140515
---
This application is a continuation and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 609 515 filed Oct. 30 2009 U.S. Pat. No. 8 754 765 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 111 502 filed Nov. 5 2008 the entire contents of all of which are incorporated here by reference.

A media object such as a song image video or other multimedia object stored on a server and optimized for later playing on a mobile device can be delivered to the mobile device proactively or reactively. In proactive delivery the media object is delivered to and stored on the mobile device ahead of when the user attempts to access it. In reactive delivery the media object is held on the server until it is requested by user and then streamed to the mobile device and played immediately.

In general in an aspect at a mobile device a a media object to be played to a user of a mobile device is received from a server and stored on the mobile device without requiring a user of the mobile device to be aware of the receipt or storage or b an alert that a media object has become available for streaming delivery to and playing to the user at the mobile device is received at the mobile device or both a and b . A notification is presented on the mobile device to the user indicating that the media object is available to be played.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The notification is presented modally. The notification is displayed. The notification includes vibrating the mobile device or playing a sound. The notification includes interactive controls that can be invoked by the user. The notification includes information that describes the media object. The user can preselect a form of the notification to be presented. The user selects a feature of the notification to be presented. The user is enabled to select types of the media object for which the notification is to be presented. The notification indicates that the media object is not to be played until a time later than when it is first available. The notification indicates that the media object is not to be played after an expiration time. The notification incorporates other notifications related to other media objects at the same time. The receiving of the media object at the mobile device occurs automatically without an action by the user. The user can select from a displayed list of available media objects a media object to be played. The notification includes presenting advertising to the user.

In general in an aspect notification is presented on a mobile device to a user to advise the user of the availability of a media object that a has been received from a server and stored on the mobile device without the user having been aware of the receipt or storage or b has newly become available for streaming from the server to the mobile device.

These and other features and aspects and combinations may also be expressed as methods business methods apparatus systems program products databases means for performing functions and in other ways.

Other advantages and features will become apparent from the following description and from the claims.

Referring to a mobile device can be arranged to present a notification to a user when a media object is available to be played. The media object may have become available for playing on the mobile device because a server where it is stored has sent an availability alert to tell the mobile device that the object is available to be streamed to the mobile device for playing reactively whenever the user asks for the media object. Or the media object may have become available for playing on the mobile device by having been proactively delivered to the mobile device and stored there until the user wants the media object to be played. Other delivery techniques could also be used.

In our use of the term mobile device we include without limitation personal digital assistants cellular telephones notebook computers and any other device that is portable and can communicate through an available typically wireless communication channel. In our use of the term media object we include without limitation music images videos cartoons advertisements text documents other multimedia objects and any other object that can be presented to played for or performed for a user of the device using audio video display or other technologies. In our use of the term play and the term present we include without limitation performing playing audibly or visually or both displaying or in any way presenting to a user s senses.

The notification can be presented by the mobile device in a wide variety of ways and at a wide variety of times. For example the notification can be presented audibly or visually or both through a display screen speakers earphones vibration or any combination of them. The notification can be generated at the mobile device for presentation to the user based on information about the media object that is provided from the server for example as part of or related to the availability alert or from other sources. The notification can be generated at the server delivered to the mobile device and used by the mobile device as is or with modification in the presentation of the notification to the user. The notification can be presented to the user in any form and through any presentation medium for example by email or a text message on screen embedded in other objects being presented or in other ways.

The notification can be presented at a variety of times and more than one time either alone or in combination with other notifications related to other media objects. The notification can be presented immediately or promptly when the availability alert is received or when the object is proactively delivered to the mobile device. Prompt presentation is especially useful for a time sensitive media object such as a breaking news program or a financial market update. In some cases the notifications can be delayed and presented at later times either at regular times specified by the user or at times determined by the system. Notifications can be delayed until several notifications are ready for presentation. The availability alert or the proactively delivered object can contain or be accompanied by information about when the notification is to be presented which may be at a later time. The mobile device could respect such information or ignore it or some combination of the two.

In some embodiments the media objects are locked by encryption and or subjected to digital rights management DRM control prior to delivery to the mobile device. The DRM control can include not permitting the media object to be played until after a certain amount of time has passed or beginning at a specific time. The availability alert or the object information or the object itself can contain information about the time when the object is allowed to be played. DRM control can include setting a time after which playing of the object is no longer permitted. A notification can be generated when the expiration time is approaching or imminent. DRM control can also be used to control the circumstances under which or conditions required before a media object can be presented. The notification can alert the user about such circumstances or conditions.

Among the advantages of the presentation of notifications is that especially in the case of proactive delivery the delivery can be accomplished in the background without bothering the user and the user will anticipate having the notification presented once the full media object has arrived. Also suppliers of media objects can control the times and conditions under which the media is allowed to be played.

The presentation of the notification can be modal requiring the user to click through the notification before being allowed to use any other function of the mobile device e.g. to play a media object. If more than one media object is available at a given time or another media object becomes available when a notification is already being presented the notifications can be stacked up to allow or require the user to click through the stacked notifications before invoking any other functions.

In some examples presentation of a new notification could cause an old one being to disappear so that there is only one notification being presented at any given time. In some embodiments the presented notification automatically disappears from the screen for example after a certain amount of time.

Among other advantages the modal presentation can increase the chances that the user will review a notification including any advertisement or other promotional material that is part of the notification. The forced review may also increase the chances that the user will ask for presentation of the media object which may also contain advertising. This increased chance of review of the notification or presentation of the media object in turn may increase the willingness of advertisers to buy advertising and or the price that an advertiser will pay.

The notification can take various forms. For example the notification can be visual e.g. an icon on the screen or a visible change to an existing and standard icon e.g. as shown in a change from a default application icon to another version of the icon an LED light that flashes or remains on a text message or graphics e.g. a logo corresponding to the new media vibration of the device or many others. The notification can be audible and contain an audio e.g. a chirp or other sound selectable by the user.

A wide variety and amount of information can be presented in the notification . The information can include information about the media object e.g. the name title duration source time of availability cost advertising and thumbnail images. The notification can also a wide variety of buttons links and other devices that enable the user to take an action with respect to the notification. One action would be to ask for the presentation of the media object to begin immediately. Another could be to ask for the notification to be presented at a future time or times or to never to be presented again. The user could be asked to confirm payment for the presentation of the media object.

In some implementations the user can select types or sizes or media of media objects e.g. news sports finance and others videos but not audio items large files but not small ones for which he she would like to receive a notification. The user can also select the form timing and features of the notification . For example the user can toggle the audible feature on or off specify which sound and at what volume to associate with the notification. In some embodiments the sound can be suppressed when the mobile device is configured in vibrate or silent mode.

In the example shown in a modal notification about sports news includes a title that identifies an overall source and category of the media object associated with the notification a text description of the media object and a logo associated with the distributor or source of the news. The notification also includes a text message indicating that the sports news is new for example not previously available to this user on this device and another text message reminding the user of the number of un played available media objects. The user can dismiss the notification by clicking the dismiss button or request playing of the sports news by clicking on the play button.

Each media object can be episodic e.g. with new editions published at regular intervals or be part of a sequence e.g. a movie or can be a stand alone item. A media object may be time sensitive and require immediate playing e.g. a stock ticker update . Other media objects may be relatively time insensitive and a delay of hours in delivery and presentation can be acceptable e.g. a movie trailer . The delivery of the media objects is facilitated by one or more network interfaces of the mobile device e.g. GPRS EDGE CDMA EVDO WiFi Bluetooth or a USB cable tethered to a host computer. Each of the network interfaces can take the advantage of a network resource for connecting to a communication network e.g. the Internet or other communication network . This connection may be the last hop for the media object to traverse in its travel from the server to the mobile device . The availability of network resources may vary from time to time as for example the mobile device moves in and out of network hotspots. For example at one moment WiFi and EDGE may be available a few minutes later only EDGE may be available.

The mobile device includes a media object application that provides a wide variety of functions including communication with the server with respect to media objects receipt of media objects in proactive or reactive modes receipt and processing of availability alerts and object information from the server assembly generation and presentation of notifications interaction with the user in connection with presented notifications reporting to the server which notifications have been presented when and with what result management of user preferences regarding notifications playing of media objects management of DRM controls and decryption tracking of the intended timing and frequency of presentation of notifications and others.

The proactively delivered media objects can be stored on a storage device e.g. a flash memory or magnetic disk drive of the device as locally stored media objects. The storage of a copy of a media object on both the server and the mobile device can be sync ed.

In some implementations proactive delivery of a media object that is to be locally stored happens automatically without user action for example without the user needed to press a key or attach a cable. The automatic proactive delivery can take place when the mobile device is on regardless of its state plugged in and charging engaged in other activities e.g. a phone call or in a power save mode when the screen is blank.

As shown in the media object application on the mobile device communicates with a core environment running on the server to receive each media object either by streaming or bulk downloading and storage on the mobile device from a media asset repository which may or may not be located at the same place as the server for playing by a user . The core server environment performs a wide variety of functions in connection with distributing the media objects and information for use in the presentation of notifications. These functions can include managing registration and subscription information for individual users as obtained through the web portal and a web browser on user computers accumulating and providing availability alerts to the mobile device accumulating and providing other information about media objects to the mobile device including timing restrictions descriptions and summaries interacting with the mobile device and the user of the mobile device managing DRM control of the use of media objects and others.

Software components of the core server environment for performing these and other functions may include a web portal a sync module and a database . The media asset repository includes an object system storing the media objects for subsequent delivery to the mobile device and an application managing the delivery of those objects over e.g. an IP network to the mobile device. An example of the application is an Apache HTTP server as described on the Apache website at http httpd.apache.org . The application can be installed by the mobile device manufacturer OEM before the mobile device is sold to the user or by the user after acquiring the device by for example downloading the application through the Internet from the core server environment.

The application is configured to automatically implement one or more of the following sequential applications or a wide variety of other sequences 

1 Wait for a signal to indicate that sync ing should occur. The signal may come from the mobile device from the server or from the user .

3 Connect to the sync module on the server and transmit a query that conforms to a defined communication protocol and asks for newly available media objects. The query may be to ask the server for information about newly available media items. In response to the query the sync module may look in the database to identify newly available media objects. For instance the sync module may search for newly available episodes for a user who has subscribed to Baseball Tonight.

4 Receive new media objects from the media asset repository and treat any locally stored version of the media object as expired.

5 Optionally report in conformity with the sync ing protocol the delivery event and the usage of the media object back to the server .

The application can perform the steps 1 5 automatically without the need for the user s awareness of the steps being performed or the users action to intervene activate or adjust the performance of the steps. Newly available media objects can be delivered proactively hourly daily or weekly to the mobile device e.g. in the background without the requirement for any user action. The media objects in the media asset repository can also be made reactively available to the user . The user can be notified when the proactive delivery is completed or the reactive delivery is available as described in and take further actions based on the notification for example reviewing the media objects delivered or to be delivered selecting media objects of interest or playing the selected media objects.

The user can access the locally stored media objects manually. In some examples an easy manual access is provided by a file system on the mobile device that stores the proactively delivered media objects . For example when the mobile device is a Windows Mobile device the files can be stored in the My Documents folder. A notified user can access the stored media objects by for example use of existing tools on the mobile device e.g. a File Manager application on a Windows Mobile device .

In some embodiments whether or not notifications have been presented the user can access the locally stored media object using the application as shown in . The application provides the notified user a list of the locally stored media objects and or a list of the remotely stored media objects and allows the user to access the listed media objects easily for example by a simple click. The user friendly access may be useful for example when a file system described above is not available e.g. on a Java based mobile device or the manual access to the file system is non intuitive.

The list contains information such as legal information e.g. copyrights that apply to the media objects or other information e.g. content about the available proactively delivered media objects. In the example shown in the list displayed includes for each media object an icon indicating a feature e.g. the media object is visual as indicated by a visual icon or the media object is audible as indicated by an audio icon of the media object . The content of the media objects can also be identified in text .The duration of each media object may also be displayed.

Referring again to the user can also obtain a detailed view of a particular media object listed on the list when detailed information is requested by for example identifying the media object of interest. The pending list of the application provides to the user a view of the media objects that are scheduled for delivery and or in transit but not yet fully downloaded. The list can have a similar view or content to that of the list exemplified in .

In the example shown in the application also provides a user interactive interface to allow the user to change some aspects or settings of the application . For example the user can select or change the format and or content of the lists and e.g. sequence of the listing number of lists to display on each page and others. The application can include a built in mechanism that plays or presents the content of the media object when the user selects one from the list. The application can also interact with other applications e.g. web browser media player and others within the application on the mobile device using application programming interface API calls . When the user selects a media object of interest from the list or from the file system using a native file browser an appropriate application external to the application is launched to render the locally stored or remotely stored media for example baseball live show of .

Referring to the application of can also be presented using user friendly application icons and on a user interface of a mobile device particularly when the user interface is sufficiently large such as a screen of computer to the user so that the user can easily use the application. For example the media objects from different sources are categorized and each category is listed graphically with more description than in the sample list of . The application also provides a search function on the user interface to facilitate the user selection of the media objects of interest.

