---

title: App store update notification and warning system
abstract: A system for maintaining and upgrading hardware device functioning provides processes to select and install updates for software (e.g., applications or apps) on the hardware device. A notification system provides information for discretion and control over the selection of software updates to be applied to consumer mobile devices according to the particular characteristics of the device, e.g., the model of device, the specific operating system of the device, and software applications installed on the device. The notification system may be integral with app stores on mobile devices and tablets, and may also be applicable to the Internet of Things. A notification may take the form, for example, of a warning or recommendation associated with an update for an app on the user device and may enable the user to make an informed decision beforehand about whether or not to install a particular update on the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569196&OS=09569196&RS=09569196
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09569196
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141219
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to technology for maintaining and improving hardware device functioning that is driven by software e.g. applications or apps and more particularly to providing discretion and control over which software updates are selected to be applied to any particular device.

A wide variety of application programs known as apps or mobile apps are available for installation on consumer mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Some apps are available for free while others may be purchased through a digital distribution system generally referred to as an app store. App store may also refer to an app installed on a consumer mobile device that provides a consumer user with access and interface to an app store system so that using an app store app a user can purchase apps using the mobile device and download apps directly to the user s mobile device. Different versions of an app store may be available for example depending on the specific operating system OS that runs the particular mobile device.

Occasionally and for some types of apps routinely an app will be updated as improvements are made to the app or changes are made to the app to correct malfunctions or other undesired effects commonly referred to as bugs . Such mobile app updates may be available or even disseminated to the user from the app store via the app store app. Mobile app updates can however introduce bugs that can render an application unusable despite being carefully vetted through the app store.

Moreover mobile app updates that may be developed for the latest operating systems and devices yet are capable of being installed and running on an older version of the same operating system may cause various issues for an older operating system or device such as slowing the system down or breaking it e.g. causing the OS to lock up requiring a reboot . Without any kind of automated system that can alert a user before the user has actually updated the app and is encountering the problem an unsuspecting user may accept or install such an update having no better option than to go about reading reviews manually looking at ratings or just installing the update in the device to try it out risking changes that can be for all practical purposes irreversible to the device that can cause serious issues for the operation of the mobile device or otherwise can be at best annoying for the user.

In addition to mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets a wide variety of devices such as smart thermostat systems washer dryers that utilize Wi Fi for remote monitoring heart monitoring implants biochip transponders on farm animals automobiles with built in sensors or field operation devices that assist fire fighters in search and rescue are coming to include uniquely identifiable embedded computing devices that can be interconnected within the existing Internet infrastructure referred to as the Internet of Things or the Internet of Everything. Such devices and their software applications will need updating and will be subject to similar problems as described above for user mobile devices.

Thus there is a need for an improvement to the technology of updating software in the field of maintaining and improving hardware device functioning.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages may be best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures in which the showings therein are for purposes of illustrating the embodiments and not for purposes of limiting them.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods that in one or more embodiments aid software and system maintenance by providing information for discretion and control over the selection of software updates to be applied to consumer mobile devices according to the particular characteristics of any particular device e.g. the specific operating system and software applications installed on the device. Thus embodiments may improve the technology for maintaining and upgrading hardware device functioning by improving the processes that provide and install updates for software e.g. applications or apps . The notification system may be provided for app stores on mobile devices and tablets which are platforms that rely on periodic updates to push changes hence the notification system may also become applicable to app stores for the Internet of Things.

The provided information for discretion and control over updates may take the form of a notification to a user of a user device about an update that is specific to the user device its operating system or an app installed on the user device. Thus only notifications relevant to the user device or apps on the device are given to the user. A notification may take the form for example of a warning or recommendation associated with an update for an app on the user device. The notification may enable the user to make an informed decision about whether or not to install a particular update to an app on the user device before taking the risk of installing the update. Often side effects of installing a particular update on a device may not be removable from the device so such a notification system can be particularly beneficial and welcomed by a wide variety of users.

In one embodiment such a notification system can be an integral part of an app store application that is installed on a user device. In another embodiment the notification system can be implemented as a standalone application on the user device that has information as to which applications are installed on the particular device and are subject to being updated.

In one or more embodiments the notification system may have information about device specific details such as the model of the device and the operating system used on the device. One or more embodiments may provide different levels of warning based on settings chosen by user. In one example higher levels of warning may be provided based on members of the user s circle of trust e.g. Facebook friends Google circles giving negative reviews. In one strategy to prevent competitors from gaming the system the user could choose to widen the circle of trust by including prominent reviewers who wrote bad reviews about the update. In another example a warning may be provided based on ratings of an app suddenly falling after an update.

In one or more embodiments app store reviews may be analyzed using natural language processing to search for reviews with complaints e.g. slowdown of an updated app about various available updates. The reviews may be sorted by update and filtered by various parameters e.g. device and operating system to customize the warning for each particular user device.

In one or more embodiments a notification may provide information about an update that changes features of the app for example by adding graphics or inappropriate content. In such a case the ratings information for the update may include a flag or marker for inappropriate content related to the update for the app and the system may provide additional options such as preventing automatic application of the update to the app. In one or more embodiments the notification system may provide information from early adopters of an update that allows a user to wait for an update to be vetted before applying the update to the user s device. In one or more embodiments an update verification feature allows installing the update on an image of the user device in a sandbox setting e.g. a testing environment that isolates untested code changes to protect the device from changes that could be damaging regardless of the intent of the author of those changes or which could simply be difficult to revert . Using the sandbox environment the user can test execution of the app after application of the update to the app without risking irreversible changes to the user device and the way the app executes on the user device prior to installing the update.

Notification module may be provided as an integral subsystem of app store app . Alternatively notification module may be provided by way of its own updater app for running the notification module independently of any app store. Either one or both embodiments may be functional on user device . User device may include a data storage device e.g. non transitory computer readable memory that stores information including user preferences and settings for update system . Data storage device may also store reviews for one or more apps e.g. one or more of other applications installed on user device . For purposes of simplicity limiting discussion to one particular app data storage device may store reviews related to one or more updates to the app. There may be a number of different updates for an app and for each update there may be different versions of the update. For example there may be different versions of the update for different versions of the app e.g. different releases or a release that has previously been updated with an earlier update for the same app running on different devices or model of device e.g. Apple vs. Samsung etc. or for the same app running under different operating systems e.g. iOS vs. Android .

Data storage device may store reviews for the update itself. Data storage device also may store reviews for the app that were given for the app prior to the update being applied e.g. the update is not installed so the app runs without any modifications according to the update to the app referred to as pre update reviews for the app. Data storage device may also store reviews for the app that were given for the app after the update being applied e.g. the update is installed so that the app runs according to the update modifications to the app referred to as post update reviews for the app.

Service provider server of system shown in may include service applications which when executed on a hardware processor of service provider server provide various functions and services in communication via network with user device and merchant device . Examples of some such functions are described below with reference to . Service applications may include an update processing module which can perform functions similar or equivalent to functions performed by update notification module . Update processing module may be in communication with and have access to database . Database may store update information which may include the same or equivalent information about apps updates and reviews that is stored by data storage device . Service provider server may also include other applications . Service applications update processing module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware such as device modules. In other embodiments service provider server may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Merchant device of system shown in may include a merchant database which may store the same or equivalent information about apps updates and reviews that is stored by data storage device database and update information . Merchant device may also include other applications such as merchant application . Merchant application may be in communication with and have access to database . Merchant application and database may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware such as device modules. In other embodiments merchant device may include additional or different hardware and software as required. Merchant application may provide various functions for example that in communication via network allow user to purchase an app store app purchase apps from the app store and provide updates and update notification functionality in accordance with embodiments of update system . Various examples of some such functions are described below with reference to .

Any of update notification module update processing module data storage device database update information and merchant database may receive and store information about an app that is installed on the user device . Such information may include for example the name of the app its version the device and model of device it is installed on the operating system being used and other information that may be needed regarding the execution environment of the app that is specific to the device for which an update notification is being processed.

As described above there may be a number of different apps and versions of apps different updates for an app and for each update there may be different versions of the update. Versions may differ for example according to device and operating system used. Limiting discussion to one particular app for simplicity as above any of the aforementioned devices and modules update notification module update processing module data storage device database update information and merchant database may store information related to one or more updates to the app. As discussed above the information related to an update may include reviews for the update itself or reviews for the app both pre update reviews and post update reviews as described above. Reviews may include ratings which may be negative or positive or ordered such as a five star rating system. Reviews may include a marker or flag for inappropriate content added to an app by an update.

Reviews may be processed by either of update notification module or update processing module for example by comparing pre update and post update ratings for an app. If the ratings for the app were to fall e.g. post update ratings are lower compared to pre update ratings update notification module or update processing module may issue a notification or warning for the particular update for the particular app. Update notification module or update processing module may respond directly to a flag or marker for inappropriate content and issue a notification or warning for the particular update for the particular app immediately without further processing.

In one embodiment reviews for the update itself may be evaluated similarly in other words reviews for the update itself may be evaluated as being ratings reviews like the app ratings reviews. Also reviews for the update itself may be evaluated as being positive or negative. Update notification module or update processing module may determine a summary rating for the update based on the rating or evaluation of the reviews and issue a notification or warning for the particular update for the particular app according to the summary rating.

The notification may be displayed on the user device user device shown in includes a display . Based on preference settings chosen by the user different levels of warnings or notifications may be provided to the user device . The settings may stored for example on the user device e.g. in data storage device . Service provider server may also keep track of user preference settings for example using database . Different levels of warning may range for example from placing a small icon on display where it would be noticed but not interrupt the user to flashing a warning that interrupts whatever the user is looking at. In another embodiment a warning level e.g. 1 to 5 may be given with the notification to indicate a level of risk associated with installing the update on the user device. The warning or notification which may be controlled by the user preference settings may also include for example options to automatically update an app or to prevent updates from being applied.

In one embodiment natural language processing analysis may be used to search for negative reviews e.g. post update reviews with complaints about app performance such as slowing down losing functionality or undesired behavior . The reviews may be filtered by one or more factors for example filtering may include many factors such as operating system device and model of device so that reviews found by the search and matching to the device may be selected. Based on the selection either of update notification module or update processing module for example may customize the warning or notification for the user as well as provide notification or other action in accord with user preference settings as described above. In an alternative embodiment natural language processing analysis may be used to search for positive reviews and the notification or other action may be correspondingly customized differently.

In one embodiment database of service provider server or data storage device of user device may include information identifying a circle of trust for the user device . Such information may be supplied by user of user device and may be derived for example from the user s group of Facebook friends or Google circle. The circle of trust information may be modified by the user . In one example the user could choose to widen the circle of trust by choosing prominent reviewers who wrote bad reviews about the update. A reviewer may gain prominence for example by posting a blog with reviews for various apps and their updates. The rationale for this strategy may be to prevent competitors e.g. publishers of competing apps from gaming the system by distorting the evaluation of reviews by providing either false reviews or overabundance of favorable or unfavorable reviews as needed. The post update review information received by the update notification or processing module may be adjusted based on at least one negative app store review that is related to the update for the app on the user device and is received from the circle of trust. In another embodiment determining the summary rating for the update may include adjusting the summary rating based on at least one negative review from the circle of trust of the user.

In one embodiment database of service provider server or data storage device of user device may include information related to vetting an update by early adopters of an update. Early adopters of an update may provide review related to the update e.g. either pre and post update reviews of the app or reviews of the update for a pre determined vetting period which may start on a release date of the update and extend to an end date for the vetting period. The information related to vetting an update by early adopters of an update may thus include information about the vetting period and reviews by early adopters. The rationale is to allow most users to avoid some risk by letting the early adopters test the update first. After waiting for the expiration of the vetting period for receiving reviews either of update notification module or update processing module for example may determine the summary rating for the update based on the reviews by early adopters. The determination may be made as described above either based on comparing post update early adopter reviews of the app to pre update reviews of the app or based on early adopters reviews of the update itself. The update notification module may then provide for display on the user device the warning notification resulting from the vetting process e.g. based on vetting the update for the app .

In one embodiment either of update notification module or update processing module for example may execute the updated app after installing the update on an image of the user device in a sandbox setting e.g. a testing environment isolated from the rest of user device or service provider server . Using the sandbox environment the user or the service provider can test execution prior to actually installing the update on user device of the app after application of the update to the app without risking irreversible changes to the user device or undesired side effects to the way the app executes on the user device.

At process method may include operations for evaluating by a computer processor e.g. update notification module or update processing module executing respectively on user device or service provider server each of the reviews from process as negative or positive or otherwise placed into a ratings hierarchy as described above with a flag or marker for inappropriate content or graphics overriding the hierarchy. The valuation may be applicable for example either to the update itself to pre update performance of the app or to post update performance of the app.

At process method may include operations for determining by the computer processor e.g. update notification module or update processing module executing respectively on user device or service provider server a summary rating for the update based on the evaluation at process of the reviews related to the update whether update reviews or pre or post update app reviews . The summary rating may be based for example on evaluations for the update itself or on comparison of post update vs. pre update evaluations of the app.

At process method may include operations for providing for display on the user device e.g. user device a notification for the update according to the summary rating provided by process . Based on user preference settings options may include different types and levels of notification and may include enabling or disabling automatic updates for any particular app. While notifications have been discussed related to negative reviews and warnings the notifications can also be issued based on positive reviews or vetting of the upgrade or a new version of the app. A positive notification may be provided for example on expiration of a vetting period with no warning or drop in the ratings having occurred. A positive notification may be given for example in the case of a comparison of post update reviews to pre update reviews yielding an increased rating for the app. Conversely to warning notifications providing risk reduction to a user installing an update positive notifications may provided increased confidence for a user to install the update for the app.

System may include a user device a merchant server and a service provider server in communication over a network . Service provider server may be maintained by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. A user such as a sender or consumer may utilize user device to perform a transaction such as an electronic commerce transaction using service provider server . A user may utilize user device to initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information purchases sales online listings etc. For example user may utilize user device to initiate a deposit into a savings account. Although only one merchant server is shown a plurality of merchant servers may be utilized if the user is purchasing products or services from multiple merchants.

User device merchant server and service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. Google Glass other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple . Although a user device is shown the user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one user device is shown a plurality of user devices may function similarly.

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a user account for setting up a shopping list and or merchant sites for viewing and purchasing products and services. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may include a transaction application . Transaction application may be used to receive product information price information merchant information or other information from service provider server and or merchant server . Transaction application may provide transaction information such as items for sale and or payment options to display for display to a user.

Transaction application may receive device location information and or device orientation information from location components e.g. a global positioning system GPS component one or more accelerometers a compass Wi Fi devices Near Field Communication NFC devices etc. . The location information may include GPS coordinates accelerometer data that indicates an orientation of the device and or movement of the device or other data that indicates the location position and or orientation of the device. User device may determine a current location of user device based on the collected location data. In another embodiment user device may send the location data to service provider server and service provider server may determine a current location of user device based on the location data. The transaction information displayed by display in response to instructions from transaction application may include content that is based on the location information and or may be displayed at a time or at a location on display based on the location information.

User device may include one or more input output devices e.g. a keypad a keyboard a touch sensitive component or a camera . For example input output devices may include a camera that provides images of background objects e.g. a continuous video stream of a scene in the field of view of the camera to transaction application that can be displayed on display with transaction information overlaid on the camera images.

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through the service provider as discussed above. User device may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the service provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Display may include a touch screen that displays information to user and receives user input from user or display may be a touch insensitive display. Display may be a mobile device display a projection display that projects images onto a transparent partially transparent or opaque structure or may include any other suitable display technology. User device may monitor user input on the touch screen on any other touch sensitive device e.g. a touchpad on a laptop or using other input components e.g. a mouse and may recognize user input for association with transactions and or to activate certain functions e.g. purchase transactions payment transactions sales transactions and listing transactions based on the displayed transaction information.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various products and or services. The merchant may have a physical point of sale POS store front. The merchant may be a participating merchant who has a merchant account with the payment service provider. Merchant server may be used for POS or online purchases and transactions. Generally merchant server may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes charities as well as banks and retailers. For example a payment may be a donation to charity or a deposit to a bank account such as a savings account.

Merchant server may include a database identifying available products including digital goods and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also may include a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products food items or services identified in database .

Merchant server also may include a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services online or at a physical POS or store front. Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the service provider and receive information from the service provider e.g. a transaction ID . Checkout application may be configured to receive payment via a plurality of payment methods including cash credit cards debit cards checks money orders or the like.

Service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard service provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and send payments by user of user device .

Service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with consumers merchants and funding sources such as banks or credit card companies. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users and which and when funding sources are used. Payment application may be configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary. Payment application may be configured to execute one or more payment transactions in response to receiving and recognizing a drawn pattern from user .

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or may be separate from application may be configured to receive information from user device and or merchant server for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications for processing information from user for processing an order and for payment using various selected funding instruments including operations for initial purchase and for payment after purchase as described herein. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order from individual users including a funding source used available credit options etc. Transaction processing application may be configured to execute one or more transactions such as electronic commerce transactions in response to selection of a transaction option in a transaction display from user .

One or more of merchant server service provider server and user device may be used to execute any suitable transaction in response to receiving transaction instructions from a user .

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in a non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PSTN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

