---

title: Method of joining a conference call
abstract: In a computer-implemented method of joining a user to a conference call event an interface associated with a time management software application is displayed. The interface displays information relating to the conference call event including a date for a conference call which is subject of the conference call event and a start time of the conference call. While displaying the interface, a menu offering one or more options is displayed; these one or more options include an option to join the conference call. When an indication of a selection of the option to join the conference call is received, information associated with the conference call is located; this information includes a telephone number for a conference call bridge. A connection with the conference call bridge using the telephone number is initiated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185229&OS=09185229&RS=09185229
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09185229
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140722
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 393 450 titled Method of Joining a Conference Call filed Feb. 26 2009 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 152 450 filed Feb. 13 2009 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. This application is related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 152 473 filed Feb. 13 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to a computer implemented method of joining a user into a conference call and more specifically relates to the provision of a user interface from which a user may easily initiate joining a conference call.

It is common for people to engage in collaborative work. Increasingly collaboration occurs among people who are geographically separated from one another. When collaborators desire to meet they may all physically converge in one location for a meeting. Alternatively and as is more typical nowadays collaborators may remain at their respective geographic locations but instead meet via conference call.

The ability to meet via conference call has been made possible by the provision of conference call systems by telephony service providers. A subscriber to such a conference call system may in exchange for payment of a subscription fee host conference calls. In particular the service provider may provide the host subscriber a telephone number. The host who is sometimes also referred to as the moderator may then give that phone number i.e. the dial in number to desired participants in the conference call. Each participant including the host may call the dial in number at the designated meeting time i.e. each participant may dial in to the conference call. The conference call system may then bridge or link the callers phone lines together joining all participants into the conference.

Alternatively instead of subscribing to a conference call system maintained by a third party telephony service provider certain organizations may have their own conference call system. These private conference call systems may function similarly.

In addition to the dial in phone number conference call systems often include the capability for the host to set a security code. The host may give the security code for example for a given conference call event to each desired participant in the conference in addition to the dial in number. Subsequent to dialing the dial in number and being connected to the conference call system each participant may be prompted to enter the security code. Only after entering the correct security code will a participant be placed into the conference. While the security code is optional many people organizations choose to use one since dial in numbers may be distributed widely and may therefore become widely known. Requiring that a security code be entered helps ensures that only those people with the code can successfully join the conference.

A participant desiring to join a conference call must therefore dial first a multi digit telephone number followed by a multi digit security code. This requirement presents at least two difficulties. First since the participant is unlikely to remember the required sequence of digits he or she needs to record them upon receipt for example from the host such that he or she is able to later retrieve those digits at the designated meeting time. Secondly even after retrieving the digits the user must typically subsequently enter them into the telephone in order to be successfully connected and placed into the conference call. Given the many digits that the user must enter the user is prone to mis dialing the dial in number and incorrectly entering the security code.

In one aspect a computer implemented method of joining a user to a conference call event is provided wherein an interface associated with a time management software application is displayed. The interface displays information relating to the conference call event including a date for a conference call which is subject of the conference call event and a start time of the conference call. While displaying the interface a menu offering one or more options is displayed these one or more options include an option to join the conference call. When an indication of a selection of the option to join the conference call is received information associated with the conference call is located this information includes a telephone number for a conference call bridge. A connection with the conference call bridge using the telephone number is initiated.

In another aspect a computer implemented method of joining a user to a conference call event is provided wherein an interface associated with a calendar application is displayed. The calendar application displays information relating to the conference call event including a start time and an end time of a conference call which is subject of the conference call event. Upon receiving an indication of a selection of the conference call event the interface displays a menu offering one or more options these one or more options include an option to join the conference call. Upon receiving an indication of a selection of the option to join the conference call information associated with the conference call is located this information includes a telephone number for a conference call bridge. A connection with the conference call bridge using the telephone number is initiated.

In yet another aspect a computer implemented method of joining a user to a conference call event is provided wherein at a pre determined time in advance of a start time associated with a conference call event a display of i a reminder window displaying information relating to the conference call event and ii a menu offering one or more options available are simultaneously initiated. These one or more options include an option to join the conference call. Upon receipt of an indication of a selection of the option to join the conference call information associated with the conference call is located this information includes a telephone number for a conference call bridge. A connection with the conference call bridge using the telephone number is initiated.

In yet another aspect a computer implemented method of joining a user to a conference call event is provided wherein a user interface associated with a time management software application is displayed. The user interface displays information relating to the conference call event including a date for a conference call which is subject of the conference call event and a start time of the conference call. While displaying the user interface a menu offering one or more options available to the user is displayed these one or more options include an option to join the conference call. If the user selects the option to join the conference call information including a dial in telephone number is located associated with the conference call and dialing of the dial in telephone number is initiated.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS COMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoiP calls. However the PBX may also facilitate packet switched calls carried out with terminal devices outside the enterprise.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoiP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APis as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoiP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoiP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Turning now to the general operation of the system using SIP as the signaling protocol will be discussed although it is recognized that the present system is not limited to the processes discussed herein. The signaling descriptions that follow are based on Third Party Call Control architecture such as that illustrated in or . It will be appreciated that similar but slightly modified signaling may be used in a First Party Call Control architecture wherein the PBX will pass media through to the SMP for direct media handling by the SMP . Variations in the signaling to adapt to various architectures will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

The SMP then sets up the outgoing call leg to the destination. It does this by sending an invite over SIP L to the PBX with the destination number of the target phone block . SIP L is used so that the call can be correctly attributed to the individual within the organization within any call records that are being maintained by the PBX . When the invite is received the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block and the target phone answers the call block . When the target phone is answered the PBX sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP indicating that the target phone is ready to receive data block . The SMP then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX and shuffles the SOP Session Description Protocol as known to those of ordinary skill in the art to connect the call legs block . When the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP block and the users of the device and target phone can communicate with each other.

Note that between the cellular call leg being established and the outgoing call leg being answered the mobile user hears ringing tones. These ringing tones may be provided by the PBX using the presentation of early media from the outgoing call leg or they may be generated locally on the device if early media is not available. In the latter case it will be necessary to localize the ringing tone to match the tone normally heard with a call through the PBX .

The above description is known as a mobile initiated call because the SMP provides the mobile device with the DNIS number into which the mobile device has called. Alternatively the mobile originated call could be PBX initiated as shown in . Specifically in a PBX initiated call upon receipt of the mobile originated call request block the SMP confirms receipt of the call to the mobile device with an ANI number block which the mobile device uses to identify the incoming call from the PBX . The PBX then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number of the device and the ANI number that is attached to the outgoing call block . Upon receipt of the invite the PBX makes a cellular call to the device block which is answered by the device block . The device checks the ANI number in the incoming call to confirm if the number is actually from the PBX . If the ANI number is stripped for any particular reason then the device may be configured to answer the call as a regular cellular call or it may reject the call as unknown. When the device answers the PBX initiated call the PBX sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP indicating that the call leg to the device is established block .

In response the SMP sends an invite over SIP L with the destination number of the target phone to the PBX block . When the invite is received at the PBX the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block the target phone picks up the call block and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP block indicating that the target phone is also ready to receive data. In response to the 200 OK the SMP sends an invite to the PBX shuffling the SDP to connect the call legs block . Finally when the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP and the users of the device and target phone are able to communicate with each other.

In both instances the SMP is performing third party call control of the two call legs the PBX remaining in control of the call. The decision of whether to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call can be set by policy. Specifically the option to select either mobile initiated or PBX initiated calls is a feature provided in the SMP and an administrator for the enterprise network can determine which setting to use. For example in some cases it may be more cost effective for the corporation to utilize PBX initiated calls rather than mobile initiated calls and vice versa. However it is appreciated that the system is not limited to the above processes.

In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the DNIS number and source details to the device block which is confirmed to the SMP block . In addition to confirming the call the mobile device sends a cellular call to the DNIS number at the PBX block . Again as the DNIS number is routed in the dialing plans to the SMP upon receipt of the cellular call the PBX sends an invite over SIP T to the SMP with the DNIS number block . In response to the invite a 200 OK signal is sent over SIP T from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the mobile device is established block . Finally the initial invite block is acknowledged with the 200 OK signal with the cellular SDP block at which point the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

The diagram shown in illustrates a mobile initiated call because as discussed above with respect to the SMP presents the mobile device with the ON IS number at the PBX into which to call. However it is also possible to employ a PBX initiated mobile terminated call as shown in where the PBX sends an incoming call to the device with the ANI number of the target phone .

Specifically similar to the mobile initiated call described above and shown in the target phone sends an incoming call to the destination number of the device which is received at the PBX block . Upon receipt of the call the PBX sends an invite over SIP L to the SMP block with the source number of the target phone . In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the source number to the device block with the ANI number the device should expect in the incoming call the call request being confirmed by the device block . At this point in the PBX initiated call the SMP sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number and ANI number to use block prompting the PBX to make a cellular call to the device with the ANI number block prompting the device to ring. The device answers the call block and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP acknowledging that the cellular call leg to the device is established block . In response a 200 OK signal is also sent from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the target phone is also established block . The SMP shuffles the SOP to connect the call legs the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

As discussed above with respect to the SMP remains in control of the signaling between the target phone and the mobile device in both the mobile initiated and PBX initiated calls. Again the decision to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call is based on policy and may be set by a system administrator. In some cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for the administrator to decide that PBX initiated calls should be used and in other cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for mobile initiated calls to be utilized. As these policy decisions may vary by organization and are not imperative to the scope of the present application they will not be discussed in further detail.

As described above mobile device may be used to both initiate and receive calls including conference calls. Components of exemplary mobile device will next be described in conjunction with .

The housing may be elongated vertically or may take on other sizes and shapes including clamshell housing structures . The keyboard may include a mode selection key or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.

In addition to the microprocessor other parts of the mobile device are shown schematically in . These include a communications subsystem a short range communications subsystem the keyboard and the display along with other input output devices including a set of auxiliary I O devices a serial port a speaker and a microphone as well as memory devices which are computer readable media including a flash memory and a Random Access Memory RAM and various other device subsystems . The mobile device may have a battery to power the active elements of the mobile device . The mobile device is preferably a two way radio frequency RF communication device having voice and data communication capabilities. In addition the mobile device preferably has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the microprocessor is preferably stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as a read only memory ROM or similar storage element. In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Communication signals received by the mobile device may also be stored to the RAM .

The microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on the mobile device . A predetermined set of software applications that control basic device operations such as a voice communications module A and a data communications module B may be installed on the mobile device during manufacture. In addition a personal information manager PIM application module C may also be installed on the mobile device during manufacture. The PIM application is preferably capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application is also preferably capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . Preferably the data items managed by the PIM application are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. As well additional software modules illustrated as other software modules N may be installed during manufacture.

Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communication subsystem and possibly through the short range communications subsystem . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and one or more antennas illustrated as a receive antenna and a transmit antenna . In addition the communication subsystem also includes a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example the communication subsystem of the mobile device may be designed to operate with the Mobitex DataTAC or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communication networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communication networks such as Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Personal Communications Service PCS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with the mobile device .

Network access requirements vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique Personal Identification Number PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore requires a subscriber identity module commonly referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network.

When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may send and receive communication signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communication network by the receive antenna are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP to perform more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed e.g. modulated and encoded by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network or networks via the transmit antenna .

In addition to processing communication signals the DSP provides for control of the receiver and the transmitter . For example gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem and is input to the microprocessor . The received signal is then further processed by the microprocessor for an output to the display or alternatively to some other auxiliary I O devices . A device user may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a trackball or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communication network via the communication subsystem .

In a voice communication mode overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communication mode except that received signals are output to a speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the device . In addition the display may also be utilized in voice communication mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The short range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

To provide context and background for the disclosed method the following disclosure begins by first describing the process of creating a conference call request. Next the process of accepting a conference call request is described. Finally the process of joining a conference call which process includes the disclosed method is described.

By way of background a host or moderator may initiate a conference call meeting in one of several ways. A typical method is for the host to create and send a meeting request addressed to one or more invited participants using a messaging application such as an email application. The moderator may enter in the meeting request a list of invited participants or attendees the time of the conference call a dial in number to the conference call bridge and a security code. Upon receipt of the meeting request each invited participant may choose to accept reject or modify the meeting request. Upon accepting the meeting request an entry associated with the conference call event may be entered into the attendee s electronic calendar.

Upon launching the calendar application of PIM module C the host may be presented with exemplary user interface screen on display . Screen may be divided into a status bar portion and a calendar portion . An indication of the current date Aug. 8 2007 time 7 16 a and week of the year Week 32 may be displayed in status bar potion . Calendar portion may be a grid with the days of the current week displayed along the x axis and hours of the day on displayed along the y axis. Such a calendar view may be referred to as a week view . This is in contrast to a single day day view or a multi day agenda view as will be further discussed below. Additionally a cursor may be provided as a navigational aid on screen . As illustrated cursor is situated on the 9 00 to 9 30 a timeslot on Wednesday August 8.

While on screen the host may call up menu by for example clicking the trackball or other auxiliary I O device of device . Conveniently menu may contain a plurality of contextual actions conventionally known as menu items available to the host. That is the actions presented to the host in menu may conveniently be only those that a user would logically be expected to invoke when presented with screen . For example it may be expected that a user would want to show calendar events for the current day Today view calendar events for a particular date Go To Date . . . change the calendar view to day view View Day month view View Month or agenda view View Agenda create a new appointment entry New Appointment etc. Notably the user may also be given the option of creating a new conference call event New Conference Call action .

As is well known in the art the active menu item in menu may be highlighted. For instance as shown in the New Conference Call action is the active menu item. A user may navigate up or down menu to highlight other menu items by for example scrolling trackball up or down. To select a menu item the user may highlight the action then click trackball .

After the host has selected New Conference Call item from menu he or she may be presented with screen . Title bar identifies screen as associated with the New Conference Call action. Screen may include several editable using one or a combination of keyboard and I O device text fields including Subject field Location field Start field End field and Notes field . Conveniently and referring back to the values of Start field and End field may be automatically set based on the position of cursor at the time the user calls up menu .

Notably the host may also set a value for Reminder field at screen . As illustrated because the value of Reminder field is set to 15 min a reminder screen will pop up on display of each participant s mobile device minutes before the designated start time of the conference call in this example 9 00 am on Aug. 8 2007. Of course the host could change the value of Reminder field to another time preceding the designated start time in a conventional manner e.g. by typing another value in or picking another value from a pick list .

The host may using keyboard enter text in Subject field Location field and Notes field see . In the Notes field the host may type in free form text including for example a description of the purpose of the conference call and call information such as the dial in number for the conference bridge e.g. conference bridge . More specifically as illustrated in the host has typed the following text into Notes field Discuss next steps for customer engagement. and has provided dial in information consisting of a toll free dial in number to the conference bridge 1 888 555 1234 e.g. conference bridge and a security code 1234567 . As will be further detailed below the conference bridge dial in number may be underlined indicating that it is actionable text.

To invite participants to the conference call the host may click trackball on screen to call up menu as shown in . Menu includes an Invite Attendee item . After selecting the Invite Attendee item the host may be taken to an address book also part of PIM application module C. The host may then select one or more contacts in the address book in a conventional manner not shown . Alternatively the host may be presented with a text field into which he or she may type the email address es of one or more attendees also in a conventional manner not shown .

Once all desired attendees have been added the host may scroll up to and select the Save item on menu see . The completed conference call request screen is shown in note that the list of all invited attendees is not shown in exemplary screen . Conference call request is thereafter sent via email for example over wireless network to each invited attendee.

The function of fields and are beyond the scope of this disclosure and therefore will not be discussed. However their uses should be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Instead of the host creating a conference call request using the New Conference Call menu item as described above as may be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art an existing meeting calendar item may be converted into a conference call meeting by filling in the fields specific to a conference call meeting e.g. call in details .

The recipient may open the email in a conventional manner and be presented with screen . Next the recipient may click on screen using for example trackball to call up menu . Like menu menu may contain a plurality of contextual menu items including the active highlighted Accept item . To accept conference call request the recipient may select Accept item by clicking trackball . When the recipient accepts conference call request an entry associated with the conference call event may be entered into his or her electronic calendar.

Once the recipient accepts conference call request bar associated with conference call request is added to the recipient s calendar. Once the recipient has accepted conference call request he or she will hereinafter be referred to as an attendee . Specifically bar indicates that the 9 00 9 30 a timeslot on Wednesday August 8 is filled i.e. the attendee has a scheduled event in this example a conference call.

As illustrated cursor is situated on bar . When in this configuration i.e. when a user is mouse ing over bar some information about the event associated with bar may be displayed in information panel . It may be observed that information panel merely displays the subject location and time of the conference call event however does not display detailed information including information contained in the Notes field. To remedy this the attendee may call up screen entitled Conference Call Details by clicking on bar .

At or prior to the designated meeting time each attendee including the host moderator dials in to the conference bridge. As previously discussed an attendee may not recall the dial in number and security code from memory. This is especially likely to be so when the attendee attends many different conference calls each with different dial in numbers and security codes. Consequently conventionally at the designated meeting time to obtain the necessary dial in information and security code an attendee would call up his or her calendar on his or her mobile device and select the user interface component associated with the conference call event in this example bar to bring up Conference Call Details screen .

After retrieving the dial in number and security code from the Conference Call Details screen the attendee would conventionally then manually dial the dial in number. After connecting to the conference bridge the attendee would manually enter the security code when prompted to do so. In certain embodiments of mobile device short cuts may be available to relieve the user from having to manually dial the dial in number. For instance the dial in number stored in the Notes field may be converted to actionable text such that for example clicking on the dial in number brings up a menu. This menu may include a Dial phone number menu item. The Phone number portion would be automatically filled in by mobile device . Referring to rather than the attendee manually dialing each digit the attendee could instead for example click on the 1 888 555 1234 text in the Notes field. He or she may then be presented with a menu that includes a Dial 1 888 555 1234 menu item not shown . A similar short cut may be available to relieve the user from having to manually enter each digit of the security code.

Regardless of whether the attendee manually enters each digit of the dial in number and or security code conventionally the attendee must first call up his or her calendar select the user interface component associated with the conference call event call up a detailed view of the conference call event to retrieve the dial in number and security code initiate dialing of the dial in number and then finally enter the security code. Only if the attendee perfectly enters the dial in number and or security code will he or she be put into the conference. Clearly shortening this multi step process is desirable. A shorter process may not only reduce the likelihood of user error but may also save time since the user need not commence the sequence of actions needed to join the conference as far in advance of the designated meeting time.

To this end and in accordance with the disclosed method with reference to and flow diagram a Join Now menu item may be included in the list of contextual menu items in menu . With the inclusion of the Join Now menu item in menu an attendee may more quickly join the conference call by calling up his or her calendar navigating to the user interface component associated with the conference call event i.e. bar clicking on bar to bring up menu and selecting the Join Now menu item S . Thereafter device locates the stored information associated with the conference call S e.g. in a database i.e. the dial in number to the conference call bridge and security code and initiates connection with the conference call bridge in the manner described above in conjunction with first dialing the conference call dial in telephone number S and then after a pause or after recognizing a voice prompt S entering the security code S . The attendee is then joined into the conference S . As may be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the database may be stored on mobile device for example in memory or may be stored somewhere on enterprise network and accessed by device over wireless network .

Thus conveniently from the attendee s perspective after selecting Join Now menu item he or she is automatically joined into the conference call. In contrast to the conventional method he or she need not call up a detailed view of the conference call event locate the dial in number and security code and then subsequently dial the dial in numbers and security code.

Thus far the described embodiments allow the user to select a Join Now menu item from a menu in various user interfaces associated with a calendar application i.e. day view agenda view week view . However the disclosed method is not so limited as further described below.

Reminder window includes text describing the subject of the reminder i.e. Conference Call Team Meeting and time of the event that is the subject of the reminder i.e. Aug. 8 2007 9 00 am to Aug. 8 2007 9 30 am . Conventionally reminder window may further include buttons which provide a menu of options specifically a Decline button and In a few minutes . . . often alternatively labeled Snooze button . As may be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art selection by the user of Decline button using for example trackball may have the effect of permanently hiding reminder screen . Selection of the In a few minutes . . . button may hide reminder screen for a pre configured period of time e.g. 5 minutes. Upon expiration of this pre configured time period reminder screen may again pop up on display .

In accordance with the present disclosure Join Now button is also included in the menu of options in reminder window . Join Now button functions in the same manner as previously described Join Now menu items and and as previously described in conjunction with flow diagram . Unlike in the previously described calendar embodiment the Join Now menu item is displayed along with other options such as Snooze and Dismiss when the reminder window pops up. That is unlike the calendar view embodiment the user need not call up a menu in order to access the Join Now menu item. However conveniently in both the calendar and reminder window embodiments the attendee is able to initiate joining to conference call from reminder screen without having to access a detailed view of the conference call event to obtain the dial in number and security code and thereafter manually dialing in and entering the security code.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

For example the disclosed method may function in conjunction with the day view agenda view and week view of the calendar application. However as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art other types of calendar views may be available e.g. month view . To this end a Join Now menu item could be added to a menu accessible through a user interface component associated with the conference call event in other calendar views.

Moreover as described above the calendar application and reminder window are two components of PIM application module C. However PIM application module C may include other time management software applications such as a task list or journal. The disclosed method may also function in conjunction with these other time management software applications.

In a further alternative the Join Now menu item may be added to a menu of the existing calendar application and as another button in a reminder window of mobile device . For example an update to the calendar application may be installed on mobile device which update adds the Join Now functionality and associated menu item to a menu of the calendar application. Similarly the application that displays reminder window may be updated which update adds a Join Now button and associated functionality to the reminder window. In this regard a dedicated conference call management application need not be installed on mobile device .

