---

title: Computer-implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network
abstract: A computer-implemented method for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train, including: generating at least one conditional authority for the target train, the at least one conditional authority comprising authority data related to at least one identifying train; establishing at least one direct or indirect communication link between the target train and the at least one identifying train; determining position data for the at least one identifying train; comparing at least a portion of the position data with at least a portion of the authority data; and based at least partially on the comparison, generating at least one indication that the target train is authorized to proceed. Systems for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09254855&OS=09254855&RS=09254855
owner: Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation
number: 09254855
owner_city: Wilmerding
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140609
---
This invention relates generally to vehicle systems and networks such as railway systems including trains travelling in a track or rail network and in particular to data management systems and methods for use in managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network preferably a vehicle network of multiple trains operating in a track network.

Vehicle systems and networks exist throughout the world and at any point in time a multitude of vehicles such as cars trucks buses trains and or the like are travelling throughout the system and network. In order to effectively manage and control such vehicles a central controller e.g. intermediate or central dispatch or some back office server tracks the vehicles e.g. trains travelling in the network. This management and control is typically implemented and operated based upon identifying the position of each train in the network or a specific portion of the network. For example this central controller may issue authorities that provide an indication or permission for a vehicle to move into or operate within a specified portion of the network such as permitting a train to move into or operate within a block or section of track. These authorities may also take the form of a conditional authority where the target train or vehicle e.g the named train or vehicle is not permitted or authorized to move into or operate within a portion of the network until one or more other vehicles are clear.

In one exemplary and existing system a railroad dispatcher issues a form based movement authority to a train that is not in effect upon its issuance but rather is dependent on the movement of another train or other trains. This provides the dispatcher with a degree of flexibility in managing workload allowing him or her to work ahead on issuing authorities in a heavily trafficked track warrant area or territory. In one example and as illustrated in the authority issued to train A includes the condition that it is in effect after arrival of up to three trains B C and D moving in an opposing direction. The authority may include an at location or entry point specifying where the trains will meet or where train A will enter the portion of track or alternatively or additionally the authority specifies at least the last identifying train e.g. train D after which train A is authorized to proceed. The authority is conditional in that it is not in effect until all of the trains B C and D are confirmed to have passed the at location or entry point or that the last identifying train is clear.

In another example and as illustrated in the condition in effect behind is a condition where the order of movement of trains A B C and D are all in the same direction. Some authority forms refer to this condition as do not foul limits ahead. Further in this example the at location or entry point may be augmented with a specified distance where each of trains B C and D must be passed the at location or entry point by some distance before the authority for train A to pass the at location or entry point is effective. Also as discussed above the authority may include the identity of the last identifying train e.g. train D after which train A may safely proceed behind.

In certain railroad and train control and management systems e.g. the I ETMS of Wabtec Corp. enforcement of these conditional authorities is required in order to prevent a train from entering an unauthorized section of track until the condition for making the authority effective has occurred. In one exemplary embodiment of an existing system the location of the named trains referred to as identifying trains in the conditional authority are confirmed by the train crew via a prompt or similar interaction on the display of the on board computer on the locomotive. The terms identifying train or identifying locomotive refer to the train or locomotive listed in the movement authority dataset of a conditional authority as being in the lead of one of the trains for which the train holding that authority must wait. Assuming the crew answers the prompt correctly the appropriate protection between trains is achieved. However in some situations the crew may respond incorrectly assuming a train has passed when in reality it has not. This creates a situation where the authority of the train or trains named in the conditional authority may be violated possibly resulting in a collision. The Federal Railroad Association has expressed its concern regarding this potential hazard.

Continuing with the above exemplary embodiment of an existing implementation the crew is presented with a prompt to indicate the arrival of the trains named in the conditional authority while the train is located outside of the limits of that authority. Soft key labels are displayed to the operator and these labels indicate the locomotive identification e.g. reporting mark and vehicle number of the identifying train locomotive and the timetable direction i.e. North South East or West in which the train is travelling. An example operator display with such prompts is illustrated in where no trains in the conditional authority have yet arrived . As each train arrives the crew presses the soft key for that train. The soft key label changes from red to blue and the soft key text changes from due to arrived as shown in where one train in the conditional authority has arrived . If the crew presses the key in error pressing the same key again changes the color back to red and the text back to due. With reference to when the key for the last train is pressed an all arrived soft key label is displayed. Pressing this key serves as a final confirmation and removes the zero 0 mph target over the authority limits.

While the above discussed methodology and process facilitates the effective management of trains subject to conditional authorities there is room in the field of train management for improved systems and methods for managing controlling and tracking a plurality of trains moving within the track network.

Generally provided are an improved computer implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network. Preferably provided are an improved computer implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network that are useful in connection with railway system and the trains travelling therein. Preferably provided are an improved computer implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network that facilitate the ability to manage data from multiple locomotives and or trains travelling in a track or rail network particularly with respect to trains operating under conditional authorities. Preferably provided are an improved computer implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network that facilitate effective communication and data exchange between trains in order to accurately manage authorizations and conditional authorities.

According to one preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a computer implemented method for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train including generating at least one conditional authority for the target train the at least one conditional authority comprising authority data related to at least one identifying train establishing at least one direct or indirect communication link between the target train and the at least one identifying train determining position data for the at least one identifying train comparing at least a portion of the position data with at least a portion of the authority data and based at least partially on the comparison generating at least one indication that the target train is authorized to proceed.

According to a further preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train including receiving at least one conditional authority by the target train the at least one conditional authority comprising authority data related to at least one identifying train establishing at least one direct or indirect communication link between the target train and the at least one identifying train receiving by the target train position data of the at least one identifying train comparing by the target train at least a portion of the position data with at least a portion of the authority data based at least partially on the comparison generating at least one indication that the target train is authorized to proceed and based at least partially on the at least one indication displaying on a visual display device in at least one locomotive of the target train an authorization indication.

According to another preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train including receiving at least one conditional authority by the target train the at least one conditional authority comprising authority data related to at least one identifying train transmitting by the target train to the at least one identifying train at least a portion of the authority data comparing by the at least one identifying train position data with at least a portion of the authority data directly or indirectly transmitting by the at least one identifying train to the target train the results of the comparison based at least partially on the results of the comparison generating at least one indication that the target train is authorized to proceed and based at least partially on the at least one indication displaying on a visual display device in at least one locomotive of the target train an authorization indication.

These and other features and characteristics of the present invention as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that the invention may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments of the invention. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

As used herein the terms communication and communicate refer to the receipt transmission or transfer of one or more signals messages commands or other type of data. For one unit or device to be in communication with another unit or device means that the one unit or device is able to receive data from and or transmit data to the other unit or device. A communication may use a direct or indirect connection and may be wired and or wireless in nature. Additionally two units or devices may be in communication with each other even though the data transmitted may be modified processed routed etc. between the first and second unit or device. For example a first unit may be in communication with a second unit even though the first unit passively receives data and does not actively transmit data to the second unit. As another example a first unit may be in communication with a second unit if an intermediary unit processes data from one unit and transmits processed data to the second unit. It will be appreciated that numerous other arrangements are possible. Any known electronic communication protocols and or algorithms may be used such as for example TCP IP including HTTP and other protocols WLAN including 802.11 and other radio frequency based protocols and methods analog transmissions and or the like. Further a variety of wired or wireless network devices may be used including but not limited to a wireless network device a wired network device a WiFi network device a Bluetooth network device a Zigbee network device a WirelessHART network device a GPRS network device an ultra wideband network device a cable network device a wide band network device a multi radio network device and or the like.

The present invention including the various computer implemented and or computer designed aspects methods processes and configurations may be implemented on a variety of computing devices and systems including the client devices and or server computer wherein these computing devices include the appropriate processing mechanisms and computer readable media for storing and executing computer readable instructions such as programming instructions code and or the like. In addition aspects of this invention may be implemented on existing controllers control systems and computers integrated or associated with or positioned on the locomotive and or any of the railcars. For example the presently invented system or any of its functional components can be implemented wholly or partially on a train management computer a Positive Train Control computer an on board controller or computer a railcar computer and or the like. In addition the presently invented systems and methods may be implemented in a laboratory environment in one or more computers or servers. Still further the functions and computer implemented features of the present invention may be in the form of software firmware hardware programmed control systems microprocessors and or the like.

As shown in and according to the prior art personal computers in a computing system environment may be provided or utilized. This computing system environment may include but is not limited to at least one computer having certain components for appropriate operation execution of code and creation and communication of data. For example the computer includes a processing unit typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serves to execute computer based instructions received in the appropriate data form and format. Further this processing unit may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions.

In order to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computer a system bus is utilized. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular the system bus facilitates data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computer through a variety of interfaces as discussed hereinafter.

The computer may include a variety of discrete computer readable media components. For example this computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computer such as volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media etc. As a further example this computer readable media may include computer storage media such as media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . Further this computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in other transport mechanisms and include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media. Computer readable media may include all machine readable media with the sole exception of transitory propagating signals. Of course combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

As seen in the computer further includes a system memory with computer storage media in the form of volatile and non volatile memory such as ROM and RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines assists in transferring information between components within the computer and is normally stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit e.g. an operating system application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable codes.

With continued reference to the computer may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computer may include a non removable memory interface that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive i.e. a non removable non volatile magnetic medium and a removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with a removable memory card etc. However it is envisioned that other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media can be used in the exemplary computing system environment including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM etc. These various removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media are in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computer via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computer whether duplicative or not of this information and data in the system memory .

A user may enter commands information and data into the computer through certain attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse etc. via a user input interface . Of course a variety of such input devices may be utilized e.g. a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a touch screen a scanner etc. including any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computer from an outside source. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the user input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . Still further data and information can be presented or provided to a user in an intelligible form or format through certain output devices such as a monitor to visually display this information and data in electronic form a printer to physically display this information and data in print form a speaker to audibly present this information and data in audible form etc. All of these devices are in communication with the computer through an output interface coupled to the system bus . It is envisioned that any such peripheral output devices be used to provide information and data to the user.

The computer may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which is integral to the computer or remote therefrom. This communications device is operable by and in communication to the other components of the computer through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computer may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer which may be a personal computer a server a router a network personal computer a peer device or other common network nodes and typically includes many or all of the components described above in connection with the computer . Using appropriate communication devices e.g. a modem a network interface or adapter etc. the computer may operate within and communication through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet etc. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

As used herein the computer includes or is operable to execute appropriate custom designed or conventional software to perform and implement the processing steps of the method and system of the present invention thereby forming a specialized and particular computing system. Accordingly the presently invented method and system may include one or more computers or similar computing devices having a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing unit to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed hereinafter in connection with the present invention. Still further the computer may be in the form of any type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the presently invented computer implemented method and system.

The computer implemented method and system may be implemented in a variety of systems and vehicular networks however the methods and systems described herein are particularly useful in connection with a railway system and network. Accordingly the presently invented methods and systems can be implemented in various known train control and management systems e.g. the above referenced I ETMS of Wabtec Corp. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment and as illustrated in the systems and methods described herein may be implemented on or in connection with a train with at least one locomotive having an on board computer . Of course the on board computer may be located at any position or orientation on the train. The on board computer or on board controller on board computer system train management computer and or the like and which performs the calculations for the Positive Train Control PTC system includes a track database populated with data and or which receives specified data and information from other trains remote servers back office servers central dispatch and or the like where this data may include track profile data train data information about switch locations track heading changes e.g. curves and distance measurements train consist information e.g. the number of locomotives the number of cars the total length of the train and or the like and or the like.

The on board computer also includes or is in communication with the appropriate braking system and other software or programs to effectively implement the systems and methods according to the present invention. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the on board computer receives real time inputs from various locomotive control settings or components including a positioning or navigation system e.g. a GPS receiver at least one wheel tachometer speed sensor and or the like. Further the on board computer includes or is in communication with a communication device e.g. a data radio a communication interface a communication component and or the like which facilitates communication by or between locomotives and or the locomotive and some remote server or computer system e.g. a central controller a back office server a remote server central dispatch back office PTC components various wayside devices such as signal or switch monitors or other on board computers in the railway system. Further this communication may occur wirelessly or in a hard wired form e.g. over the rails of the track. In addition the on board computer includes or is communication with a visual display device such as the operator s display in the cab of the locomotive . This visual display device is used to present information and data to the operator of the train. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the track database includes information about switch locations track heading changes e.g. curves and distance measurements while the on board computer receives from e.g. the back office server train consist information e.g. number of locomotives cars and total length of the train . Accordingly the presently invented system and methods can be effectively implemented and used by or on such a locomotive having such an on board computer and associated components. Of course it is envisioned that any type of train management system can be used within the context and scope of the present invention.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a computer implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train i.e. the train receiving the conditional authority . In this embodiment the method includes generating a conditional authority for the target train where the conditional authority includes authority data relating to at least one identifying train. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the authority data includes one or more of the following entry point data such as a specific point of interest at location data such as a specific location of interest train data such as any train related data point e.g. identification location operating parameter etc. identifying train data such as any train related data directed to an identifying train and or condition data such as a specified condition that must be met prior to the target train proceeding .

Next a direct or indirect communication link is established between the target train and the at least one identifying train and position data is determined for the at least one identifying train. As discussed hereinafter this determination may be made by the target train the at least one identifying train and or the back office server or some other remote server or communication system . Accordingly information and data may be transmitted by or relayed with or without modification between one or more of the following the target train an identifying train the back office server a wayside device or any combination thereof.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment at least a portion of the position data is compared with at least a portion of the authority data and based at least partially on this comparison at least one indication such as a prompt message textual indication aural indication and or the like is generated or provided on the visual display device e.g. the operator s display indicating that the target train is authorized to proceed or in some embodiments pass the at least one entry point or at location . Accordingly and based upon the communication of appropriate data by or between the locomotives of the target train and the identifying train and in accordance with the conditional authority normally issued by central dispatch e.g. the back office server the target train is authorized to proceed in to a block or section of track ahead of the target train ahead of the train on its route.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment all or a portion of data collected by the target train or any of the identifying trains is transmitted to central dispatch or the back office server for use in issuing or managing further conditional authorities. For example this data may include authority data entry point data at location data train data identifying train data condition data target train data position data indication data track data switch data heading data distance data locomotive data train data navigation data tachometer data or any combination thereof. In addition and with respect to the nature and content of the conditional authorities such authorities or authority types may include direction data e.g. the direction that a train is travelling position data e.g. the position of the train the position of the locomotive the position of the head of train the position of the end of train the relative position between multiple trains and or the like condition data information about conditions that must occur prior to the authority being effective e.g. the identifying train must be at or beyond a certain location or position in effect after arrival data i.e. the authority is effective for the target train after arrival of an identifying train at or passed the entry point e.g. see FIG. in effect behind data i.e. the authority is effective for the target train behind one or more identifying trains after they have passed the entry point or some at location e.g. see FIG. or any combination thereof.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the method includes determining whether by the target train and or an identifying train each identifying train in the conditional authority based upon at least a portion of the authority data e.g. identifying train data and directly or indirectly transmitting at least a portion of the position data from each identifying train to the target train. In one preferred embodiment this direct or indirect transmission is responsive to a request by the target train for the position data such as using the communication device in the locomotive of the target train. In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the method includes directly or indirectly receiving at the target train at least a portion of the position data as transmitted from at least one of the following at least one identifying train at least one back office server at least one other train which may be used as an intermediate or repeater system and or at least one wayside device which may be some wayside communication device that acts as an intermediate or repeater system . In other embodiments the position data for each identifying train is populated or generated in the track database .

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the method includes transmitting position data from each identifying train to the target train such as using the communication device in the locomotive of each identifying train. Of course and as discussed this information may be relayed by or between the various trains wayside devices and or communicated by central dispatch or the back office server . This position data may include at least one of the following train leading edge data e.g. head of train information train trailing edge data e.g. end of train information milepost data prefix data suffix data track name subdivision identifier track data railroad data block identifier offset data or any combination thereof.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment and based at least partially on the position data received from each identifying train the method further includes determining by the target train e.g. the on board computer whether at least one identifying train meets at least one condition in the authority data. If the position or location of at least one identifying train indicates that it meets the condition the method includes generating a clear indication and if the position or location of the at least one identifying train indicates that it does not meet the condition i maintaining a not clear indication and ii requesting receiving or determining subsequent position data from the identifying train.

In one embodiment the clear indication is based at least partially on the identification of an in effect after arrival indication or an in effect behind indication in the conditional authority. Further and in one preferred and non limiting embodiment the clear indication is provided only after the last identifying train is clear and the target train is authorized to proceed. For example the target train is cleared only when the trailing edge of the last identifying train in the authority is safely passed the location where the target train will enter the block or section of track that is the subject of the conditional authority.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the condition includes one or more of the following at least one entry point at least one at location at least one condition of the identifying train at least one condition of the target train a position or location of the identifying train the position or location of the target train or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the condition is determined after receipt of the conditional authority.

In a further preferred and non limiting embodiment the target train determines the position or location of at least one identifying train based at least partially on position data. If the position or location of the identifying train indicates that it meets or satisfies the condition in the conditional authority i.e. the authority data associated with the conditional authority a clear indication is generated. However if the position or location of the identifying train indicates that it does not meet the condition of the conditional authority a not clear indication is maintained and subsequent position data directed to the identifying train is requested received or determined. As discussed above the clear indication may be based upon the identification of an in effect after arrival indication or condition or an in effect behind indication or condition.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the position data includes position uncertainty data which may be determined by the identifying train or in other embodiments the target train . In particular this uncertainty data may be used by the target train and or the identifying train to determine how certain the identifying train is regarding its position or a portion thereof. This uncertainty data may lead to the determination or configuration of a safety factor or buffer that provides the target train with an assurance that the identifying train is completely passed the entry point. This avoids any chance of collision between any portion of the target train and the identifying train. This safety factor or buffer may be configured by the railroad populated on the track database dynamically determined by the target train and or the identifying train timer data distance data or any combination thereof.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the position data is determined by each identifying train where this position data includes the position or location of the identifying train with respect to at least one condition in the conditional authority. If the position or location of at least one identifying train indicates that it meets or satisfies the condition in the conditional authority a clear indication is generated. However if the position or location of the identifying train indicates that it does not meet the condition of the conditional authority a not clear indication is maintained and subsequent position data directed to the identifying train is requested received or determined. As discussed above the clear indication may be based upon the identification of an in effect after arrival indication or condition or an in effect behind indication or condition.

As discussed the authority data may include a variety of data points and information to allow the target train to effectively comply with the conditional authority. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the authority data in the conditional authority includes the identification of one or more identifying trains as well as an identification of the condition that must occur in order for the target train to safely proceed. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment that condition is based upon some entry point at location or target location e.g. in an in effect after arrival condition the location where the target train will be authorized to enter the block or section of track only after the trailing edge of the last train is completely clear of the entry point at location or target location. In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the condition is based upon the position of the trailing edge of the last identifying train e.g. in an in effect behind condition the position of the trailing edge of the last identifying train that is ahead of the target train.

In a further preferred and non limiting embodiment the request for position data further includes the position of the entry point and the method further includes determining by the identifying train at least one position or location on its calculated route. In one embodiment position data is directly or indirectly transmitted to or received by the target train and includes the position of the identifying train with respect to this position or location. Further in this embodiment the position data includes at least one of the following an indication that the determined position or location is behind the identifying train on its calculated route an indication that the determined position or location is ahead of the identifying train on its calculated route or the determined position or location is not on its calculated route. Accordingly in this embodiment the appropriate determinations of relative positioning are made by the identifying train. In addition and as discussed the position data may include position uncertainty data. In addition and in a further preferred and non limiting embodiment if the determined position or location does not appear on the route travelled by the identifying train the method further includes at least one of the following voiding the at least one conditional authority issuing at least one non conditional authority or any combination thereof. In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the target train determines at least one entry point or at location based at least partially on the authority data in or derived from the conditional authority.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the direct or indirect communication link between the target train and the identifying train is a secured communication link directly between the target train and the identifying train. In this embodiment this secured communication link can be terminated based at least partially on at least one of the following a termination command is received by the identifying train a determination is made that the identifying train has passed a determined position or location or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the communication link between the target train and the identifying train is an indirect communication link established between the target train a back office server or some other remote server or computer and the identifying train or alternatively between the target train an intermediate train e.g. another identifying train and the identifying train. In addition the indirect communication link is established between any two or more of the following the identifying train the back office server another train a wayside device or any combination thereof. In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the method further includes generating a status of the identifying train e.g. with respect to some determined position or location and displaying the status on the visual display device e.g. the operator s display in the locomotive of the target train.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the method includes determining that the target train and or identifying train is not equipped with a specified train control system voiding the conditional authority and issuing a non conditional authority. Accordingly the method and system of the present invention can determine whether it can be effectively used or implemented in a variety of situations or scenarios. This non conditional authority does not permit the target train or identifying train to make any type of train control or management decisions with respect to other trains.

In a further preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train including receiving a conditional authority by the target train wherein the conditional authority includes authority data related to at least one identifying train establishing at least one direct or indirect communication link between the target train and the at least one identifying train determining or receiving by the target train position data by the at least one identifying train comparing by the target train at least a portion of the position data with at least a portion of the authority data based at least partially on the comparison generating at least one indication that the target train is authorized to proceed and based at least partially on the at least one indication displaying on a visual display device in at least one locomotive of the target train an authorization indication.

In a still further preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network for a target train including receiving a conditional authority by the target train wherein the conditional authority includes authority data related to at least one identifying train directly or indirectly transmitting by the target train to the at least one identifying train at least a portion of the authority data comparing by the at least one identifying train position data with at least a portion of the authority data directly or indirectly transmitting by the at least one identifying train to the target train the results of the comparison based at least partially on the results of the comparison generating at least one indication that the target train is authorized to proceed and based at least partially on the at least one indication displaying on a visual display device in at least one locomotive of the target train an authorization indication.

In one exemplary embodiment and in accordance with the principles of the present invention the on board computer or on board segment of the system accepts a conditional authority from the back office server or central dispatch . When this occurs the on board computer sends a request for position or location information to the on board computer of each identifying locomotive identified in the movement authority dataset i.e. authority data . The on board computer or on board segment on each identifying locomotive starts to periodically report its location to the locomotive of the target train holding the conditional authority. In another exemplary embodiment the identifying trains periodically report position data to the back office server and the back office server forwards that data to a target train based upon information in the conditional authority. Since the back office server has the authority data associated with the conditional authority including the target train and identifying trains it can be configured to forward position data from the identifying trains to the target train.

In another exemplary embodiment and when the on board computer accepts or receives a conditional authority from the back office server the on board computer will send a request for location information to the on board computer on each identifying locomotive identified in the movement authority data set. The on board computer on each identifying locomotive will then start to periodically report its location to the locomotive holding the conditional authority. In this embodiment there are two primary options for the creation and or content of the location information.

The first primary option is to have the on board computer of each identifying locomotive report its track location of the leading and trailing edges of its train. This may take the form of a milepost within the applicable prefix or suffix track name subdivision identifier and or Standard Carrier Alpha Code SCAC of the railroad that operates the subdivision. Alternatively the location could be formatted as a block identifier offset into the block subdivision identifier and or railroad SCAC. The on board computer on the locomotive holding the conditional authority will search for or identify the reported track location using the track database or the database where the information is stored and determine where that location is relative to the position or location at which the train will enter the conditional authority. If the location reported by an identifying locomotive indicates that the entire train is clear of a specified or determine position or location e.g. entry point at location and or the like the locomotive holding the conditional authority will consider that train to have arrived . The on board computer on the train holding the conditional authority will then use the condition type e.g. in effect after arrival or in effect behind to determine on which side of the position or location the named train needs to be in order to consider that train to have arrived . illustrates this option as implemented in both the in effect after arrival condition and the in effect behind condition. The location report from the identifying locomotive may also include the level of position uncertainty calculated by the on board computer on that locomotive in the course of its navigation such that the on board computer on the locomotive holding the conditional authority can determine whether the named train has cleared the position or location by at least that distance. One advantage to this first option is that the information reported by the identifying locomotive is already calculated by the on board computer as a matter of normal operation. However it is recognized that the on board computer on the locomotive holding the conditional authority may be programmed or configured to walk the track between the location of the named train and the entry point.

With reference to and in this exemplary embodiment the second option includes having the on board computer of the identifying locomotive report its location relative to the some determined position or location. In this option the on board computer on the train holding the conditional authority determines where the train will enter that authority and reports that track location to each identifying locomotive when it sends the request for location information. The on board computer on each identifying locomotive then identifies that position or location on its calculated route. When the identifying locomotive makes a periodic location report it also reports its location relative to the position or location as either ahead of the train on its calculated route behind the train on its calculated route or not on its calculated route. When an identifying locomotive reports that the position or location is behind the train on its calculated route the train holding the conditional authority considers that train to have arrived . The on board computer on the identifying locomotive may also calculate or take into account its calculated position uncertainty in order to provide a greater degree of accuracy that the train has cleared the location in question by at least a specified distance. illustrates this option as implemented in both the in effect after arrival condition and the in effect behind condition.

If the on board computer on an identifying locomotive reports that the determined or specified position or location is not on its route no determination is required. Further if the position or location never appears on the identifying locomotive calculated route behind the train in this embodiment intervention by the dispatcher e.g. the back office server may be required to void the conditional authority and issue a non conditional authority once the dispatcher has verified that the track is clear. While it is recognized that this option requires additional computing by the on board computer on the identifying locomotive since the search for the point of interest is limited to the identifying locomotive s calculated route the computing resources are minimal and less variable. In addition and in this option the logic for both the in effect after arrival condition and the in effect behind condition is identical i.e. a location on the route behind the named train clears the train for that condition.

In another exemplary embodiment the communication between the locomotive holding the conditional authority and the identifying locomotives may occur in a variety of options and configurations. First the communication path may be in the form of locomotive to locomotive communication. In particular the first option in this exemplary embodiment for sending messages is directly between the locomotive holding the conditional authority and the identifying locomotives of the named trains. The locomotive holding the conditional authority may initiate an exchange of security information with each of the identifying locomotives. This allows subsequent messages to be authenticated. The locomotive holding the conditional authority then requests that the identifying locomotives periodically report their location. The identifying locomotive will then stop reporting its location either when its train has cleared the point of interest e.g. a specified or determined position or location or when it receives a message from the locomotive holding the conditional authority indicating that location reports are no longer required. One advantage of this direct communication is that the on board computer in the PTC system is a vital system and the messages are not passed through any non vital intermediary e.g. the back office server .

If the locomotive to locomotive communication option is implemented a new Interface Control Document ICD may be developed to specify messages to be exchanged between locomotives to request and provide location information and to exchange the security information needed to authenticate those messages. For example the Movement Authority Dataset 01051 message in the PTC Office Locomotive Segment ICD may be updated to include Edge Message Protocol EMP address information for each identifying locomotive such that the on board computer on the locomotive holding the conditional authority will understand how to contact the identifying locomotives. It is noted that the locomotive identifier by itself may be insufficient as both the recording marks and the owning railroad SCAC are required and they may not match e.g. in the case of a leased locomotive.

Another option in this exemplary embodiment is to provide communication via the back office server . In particular the locomotive holding the conditional authority will pass the required messages or requests through the back office server to the identifying locomotives of the named trains. This communication path may occur over established validated and authenticated communication paths between the locomotives and the back office server . Accordingly additional exchange of security information may not be required. In this option the request for location reports and the location reports themselves would be relayed between the appropriate locomotives via the back office server . One advantage to this communication path is the increased visibility of the process through the back office server for the dispatcher as well as other system users for real time monitoring and or incident investigation. However as noted above the back office server is a non vital component of the PTC system. If the communication path uses the back office server as the intermediary the ICD may specify new messages that can be added to the existing PTC Office Locomotive Segment ICD to request and provide location information. However it should be recognized that even though the back office server is a non vital component the messages from one locomotive to another could be constructed to maintain their vital integrity even if routed through the back office server . Accordingly in another preferred and non limiting embodiment a message integrity check e.g. the CRC may be included to facilitate and or permit the routing of vital messages between locomotives through non vital systems and components.

In this exemplary embodiment and with respect to crew feedback certain information data and or prompts will be provided to the train operator on the visual display device in the locomotive. In particular and as illustrated in in one preferred and non limiting embodiment a prompt will be displayed to the operator when the train is waiting outside the limits of a conditional authority to provide the status to the crew as to which named trains have arrived and which named trains are still due.

With continued reference to this exemplary embodiment and if the identifying locomotives on any of the trains named in the conditional authority are not equipped with the appropriate on board computer and or on board segment the on board computer on the locomotive that receives the conditional authority may not be able to verify the location of that named train and may then not be able to clear the zero miles per hour target over the conditional authority limits. In this instance intervention by the dispatcher may be required to void the conditional authority and issue a non conditional authority once the dispatcher has verified that the track is clear.

In another preferred and non limiting embodiment the target train e.g. the on board computer of the target train determines an entry point or at location based upon data and information in the authority data of the conditional authority. In particular the target train has a calculated route and can make a determination where the limits of the conditional authority overlap that route. Accordingly the position or location on the route beyond which the target train may not proceed due to the authority data in the conditional authority would be considered the entry point or at location.

In this manner provided are an improved computer implemented method and system for managing conditional authorities in a vehicle network such as a complex rail network. In particular the above described computer implemented methods and systems facilitate the ability to manage data from multiple locomotives and or trains travelling in a track or rail network and further facilitate effective communication and data exchange between trains in order to accurately manage authorizations and implementations of conditional authorities.

Although the invention has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present invention contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.

