---

title: Real-time location system in wireless sensor network
abstract: A real-time location and tracking system includes location markers programmed with location information of the locations that the location markers are affixed to and a mobile RTLS tracking system to read location information from nearby location markers and a mobile RTLS monitoring and display system. The system is configured to receive signals from the mobile RTLS tracking system that includes a microprocessor and memory that control the functionality of the mobile RTLS monitoring and display system to display status and geo coordinates of the mobile RTLS tracking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09651656&OS=09651656&RS=09651656
owner: Tyco Fire & Security GmbH
number: 09651656
owner_city: Neuhausen am Rheinfall
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20140820
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to provisional U.S. Patent Application 61 973 962 filed on Apr. 2 2014 entitled Wireless Sensor Network and provisional U.S. Patent Application 61 946 054 filed on Feb. 28 2014 entitled Wireless Sensor Network the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This description relates to operation of security systems in particular physical intrusion and alarm systems installed on commercial or residential premises.

It is common for businesses and homeowners to have a security system for detecting alarm conditions at their premises and signaling the conditions to a monitoring station or to authorized users of the security system. Sensors types typically include motion detectors cameras and proximity sensors used to determine whether a door or window has been opened . One particular type of sensor is a badge or tag reader to track movement of an credentialed individual within a premises such as in a major commercial or industrial facility.

Real time location systems RTLS use an active system to determine the current location of a moving tag within an environment. Different systems use different technologies to determine the location but such systems typically use either distance measurement or angle measurement or a combination of the two between two or more elements in the system with known locations e.g. locating elements and the element in the system that is being located e.g. a tag .

Several problems limit the efficacy of real time location systems RTLS . A traditional RTLS system depends on having accurate position information for each of the locating elements. These locating elements either need to be fixed at an a priori known location or if they are portable elements the elements location needs top be accurately determined at setup time. GPS is often used to determine the location of portable locating elements. However that is only possible in locations where GPS is functional and accurate i.e. outdoors without obstructions .

The difficulty of setting up and determining the position the locating elements requires a person who is highly trained in the use of the system and takes a significant amount of time to deploy. The distance between the Locating Elements and the Tag is limited by a number of factors depending on the technology that is used. For line of sight systems such as laser based ranging systems there can be no obstructions. Even for systems that can penetrate obstructions such as those using Radiating Electromagnetic energy RF obstructions decrease the range of these applications. The accuracy of the tag location is often compromised by a phenomenon called multipath which causes reflected signals to be picked up by the receiver which interfere with the signal enough to cause a decrease in the accuracy of the calculated location or make the location completely inaccurate. The location information that is received by the system is typically provided in geographic coordinates. To use this location information a system translates these coordinates into a location on a map or floor plan of a building such as on the second floor near the north stairwell of the town hall building. 

According to an aspect a real time location system a real time location system includes a plurality of location markers programmed with location information of the locations that the location markers are affixed to around a site a mobile tracking system to read location information from nearby location markers that are placed around the site a mobile monitoring and display system the mobile monitoring and display system is configured to receive signals from the mobile tracking system. The mobile monitoring and display system includes a microprocessor and memory which control the functionality of the mobile monitoring and display system to display status and geo coordinates of the mobile tracking system.

The real time location system includes a positioning transceiver system configured to determine the position of the positioning transceiver system relative to a global coordinate system during set up. The real time location system includes a tag transceiver with location marker programmer to determine the location of the tag transceiver relative to global position coordinates and to program the plurality of location markers with the location information. The location markers are read by the mobile tracking system and the mobile tracking system produces for a location marker a record of the time that the location marker was read and the geo coordinate information and or the user friendly location name on the location marker.

The positioning transceiver system elements are placed throughout the site. The location information is geo coordinate information and or user friendly location information. The location markers include circuitry including a processor and memory that controls location marker and is configured to be programmed with geo coordinates and or the friendly location information and an antenna for the communication of location information. The mobile tracking system further includes a location marker reader that reads information from location markers during tracking phase of operation an antenna that facilitates communication with the location markers and circuitry including a microprocessor and memory that controls the operation of the mobile tracking system. The positioning transceiver system further includes a positioning element that is used to determine the distance or angle to the traditional tag a global positioning transceiver and circuitry including a microprocessor and memory subsystem to control the positioning transceiver system and for communication of data to a tagging transceiver with location marker programmer. The tag transceiver with location marker programmer further includes a tag to determine the location of the tag transceiver with location marker programmer relative to the global position coordinates and a location marker programmer to program location markers with the coordinates and user friendly location information.

According to an additional aspect a real time location system includes a positioning transceiver system configured to determine the position of the positioning transceiver system relative to a global coordinate system a plurality of location markers programmed with location information of the locations that the location markers are affixed to around a site a tag transceiver with location marker programmer to determine the location of the tag transceiver relative to global position coordinates and to program the plurality of location markers with the location information a mobile tracking system to read location information from nearby location markers that are placed around the site and a mobile monitoring and display system. The system is configured to receive signals from the mobile tracking system and includes a microprocessor and memory which control the functionality of the system to display status and geo coordinates of the mobile tracking system.

The location markers are read by the mobile tracking system and the mobile tracking system produces for a location marker a record of the time that the location marker was read and the geo coordinate information and or the user friendly location name on the location marker. The location information is geo coordinate information and or user friendly location information.

According to an additional aspect a method of real time location tracking includes deploying a plurality of location markers that are programmed with location information of the locations that the location markers are affixed to around a site deploying a mobile tracking system to read location information from nearby location markers that are placed around the site receiving by a mobile monitoring and display system signals from the mobile tracking system to display status and geo coordinates of the mobile tracking system.

The disclosed real time location system resolves or mitigates these issues by changing the way the system is deployed and decoupling the setup process from the tag location finding process.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention is apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Described herein are examples of network features that may be used in various contexts including but not limited to security intrusion and alarm systems. Example security systems may include an intrusion detection panel that is electrically or wirelessly connected to a variety of sensors. Those sensors types may include motion detectors cameras and proximity sensors used e.g. to determine whether a door or window has been opened . Typically such systems receive a relatively simple signal electrically open or closed from one or more of these sensors to indicate that a particular condition being monitored has changed or become unsecure.

For example typical intrusion systems can be set up to monitor entry doors in a building. When a door is secured a proximity sensor senses a magnetic contact and produces an electrically closed circuit. When the door is opened the proximity sensor opens the circuit and sends a signal to the panel indicating that an alarm condition has occurred e.g. an opened entry door .

Data collection systems are becoming more common in some applications such as home safety monitoring. Data collection systems employ wireless sensor networks and wireless devices and may include remote server based monitoring and report generation. As described in more detail below wireless sensor networks generally use a combination of wired and wireless links between computing devices with wireless links usually used for the lowest level connections e.g. end node device to hub gateway . In an example network the edge wirelessly connected tier of the network is comprised of resource constrained devices with specific functions. These devices may have a small to moderate amount of processing power and memory and may be battery powered thus requiring that they conserve energy by spending much of their time in sleep mode. A typical model is one where the edge devices generally form a single wireless network in which each end node communicates directly with its parent node in a hub and spoke style architecture. The parent node may be e.g. an access point on a gateway or a sub coordinator which is in turn connected to the access point or another sub coordinator.

Referring now to an exemplary global distributed network topology for a Wireless Sensor Network WSN is shown. In the distributed network is logically divided into a set of tiers or hierarchical levels 

The global distributed network topology for the sensor network includes distributed rule engines denoted by the circle element R at individual nodes or collections of nodes. In an upper tier or hierarchical level of the network are disposed servers and or virtual servers running a cloud computing paradigm that are networked together using well established networking technology such as Internet protocols or which can be private networks that use none or part of the Internet. Applications that run on those servers communicate using various protocols such as for Web Internet networks XML SOAP RESTful web service and other application layer technologies such as HTTP and ATOM. The distributed network has direct links between devices nodes as shown and discussed below.

The distributed network includes a second logically divided tier or hierarchical level referred to here as a middle tier that involves gateways located at central convenient places inside individual buildings and structures. These gateways communicate with servers in the upper tier whether the servers are stand alone dedicated servers and or cloud based servers running cloud applications using web programming techniques. The middle tier gateways are also shown with both local area network e.g. Ethernet or 802.11 and cellular network interfaces

The distributed network topology also includes a lower tier edge layer set of devices that involve fully functional sensor nodes e.g. sensor nodes that include wireless devices e.g. transceivers or at least transmitters which in are marked in with an F as well as constrained wireless sensor nodes or sensor end nodes marked in the with C . In some embodiments wired sensors not shown can be included in aspects of the distributed network .

Referring now to a real time location system using stationary wireless sensor nodes and a portable transceiver is described. The system includes a positioning transceiver system PTS a tag transceiver with location marker programmer TTLMP a location marker LM a mobile tracking system and a mobile monitoring and display system .

Referring to the positioning transceiver system includes a subsystem that determines the position of the positioning transceiver system relative to a global coordinate system such as latitude and longitude. An example of such a system would be a GPS receiver. The PTS also includes a traditional positioning element that is used to determine the distance or angle to the traditional tag. The system also includes circuitry including a microprocessor and memory subsystem that is used to control the elements of the positioning transceiver system as well as a Battery and Power Electronics subsystem that supplies power to the system during operation and a communications subsystem that provides data and time synchronization between the various other Positioning Transceiver Systems not shown as well as communication of data to the Tagging Transceiver with Location Marker Programmer .

Referring to the tag transceiver with location marker programmer includes an Tag Element that together with the Positioning Elements are used to determine the location of the tag transceiver with location marker programmer relative to the global position coordinates a Location Marker Programmer that is used to program a location marker with the coordinates and user friendly location information. The tag transceiver with location marker programmer also includes circuitry including microprocessor and memory subsystem as well as a Battery and Power Electronics subsystem and a communications subsystem that is used to control the elements of the Tag Transceiver and Location Marker Programmer supply power to the Tag Transceiver and Location Marker Programmer during operation with the communications subsystem providing data and time synchronization between various Positioning Transceiver Systems.

Referring to the Location Marker is shown. The location marker is a low cost element that is programmed with geo coordinates of the location that the location marker will be affixed to and or a user friendly location e.g. a user supplied name by the tag transceiver with location marker programmer . The location marker includes circuitry including a processor that controls functionality of the location marker and memory that can be programmed with the geo coordinates and or the friendly location information by the Tag Transceiver with Location Marker Programmer and a communications block that communicates with the Tag Transceiver with Location Marker Programmer .

Also included in the location marker is an antenna for the communication block . The antenna can be configured to provide different sensitivity patterns to allow for directional reading. The location marker also includes an energy Storage and Power Electronics module that provides power to the system during operation. The Location marker may be either powered with an internal battery an external power source or powered by harvesting power from the Tag Transceiver with Location Marker Programmer during programming and from the mobile monitoring and display system during the tracking phase as discussed below.

Referring to a mobile tracking system is carried by a user and is used to read location information from nearby location markers that are placed around a site. The mobile tracking system communicates the geo coordinates and or the user friendly location information to the mobile monitoring and display system during the tracking phase of operation. The mobile tracking system includes a location marker reader that reads information from location markers during the tracking phase of operation an antenna that facilitates communication with the Location markers and circuitry including a microprocessor and memory that controls the operation of the individual components of the mobile tracking system . Also included in the circuitry are a battery and power electronic block that provides power to the system and a communications block that provides a communication channel between the mobile tracking system and the mobile monitoring and display system .

Referring to a mobile monitoring and display system displays the status and geo coordinates and or user friendly location of one or more mobile tracking systems on a display which may also display maps or floor plans of a site or building. The mobile monitoring and display system includes a display that communicates visual and or audible information about the geo coordinates and or the user friendly location information of the mobile tracking systems that are associated with the mobile monitoring and display system . The mobile monitoring and display system also includes a microprocessor and memory that controls the functionality of the mobile monitoring and display system and battery and power electronics that provides power to operate the mobile monitoring and display system and a communications block that provides a communication channel to one or more mobile tracking systems that are associated with this mobile monitoring and display system .

Setting up the system involves setting up several Positioning Transceiver System elements around a site or building that is to be so equipped. Each of these elements is placed in a known geographic location or in a location where a geographic position receiver system such as GPS would have ability to accurately determine their geo coordinates. The Positioning Transceiver Elements are placed in locations that would be within range of the areas of the site or building to be surveyed and equipped with location markers .

Once the positioning transceiver system are placed throughout the site a user begins a survey by taking a tag transceiver with location marker programmer to various locations around the site that are to be tagged with location markers . Typically the location markers will be placed in locations such as hallways doorways elevators stairways and other choke points where traffic will move during the tracking phase of operation. When a location is found to place a location marker the tag transceiver with location marker programmer determines the geo coordinates of that location and or the user enters a user friendly name such as Northwest Stairway 2Floor into the tag transceiver with location marker programmer . The location marker is programmed with the geo location and or the user friendly name of the location and the location marker is affixed to the building or site in that location. The information can include the type of asset e.g. smoke detector exit sign an id of the asset the geo coordinates location in the premises. This process is repeated in each location around the site or building so that the building or site has adequate coverage to allow tracking during the tracking phase of operation.

Referring now to a typical example of the programming of location markers during the deployment phase of operation is shown. In this case there are 3 Positioning Transceivers that are placed in 3 locations outside of the building. Two location markers are shown with both geo coordinates and user friendly location names. The location marker right side of the diagram is being programmed by the tag transceiver with the location marker programmer

In the event that it is impractical or otherwise undesirable to determine the geo coordinates of the various location markers around the site or building the tags can be programmed with just the user friendly location information. Even without the geo coordinates the friendly location name provides significant value for tracking the location during the tracking phase of operation.

Referring now to during the tracking phase of operation the mobile tracking system is deployed into the site usually affixed to a person or high value asset that is being tracked. As the mobile tracking system moves around the site the mobile tracking system moves near various location markers that are located around the building or site. As the mobile tracking system reads the various location markers the mobile tracking system produces a record of the time that the location marker was read and the geo coordinate information and the user friendly location name on each of the location markers . This information is communicated over a communication channel to the mobile monitoring and display system . In some cases more than one mobile tracking system may be deployed to a site or building that may be individually displayed on the Mobile Monitoring and Display System .

Referring now to a potential use case with emergency personnel carrying a mobile tracking system as part of their gear is shown. In this example there are 2 firefighters that are located in two different locations around the building. In this example the mobile monitoring and display system displays just the friendly name of the last known location of the firefighters and how long ago they were at that location.

The mobile tracking system uses location markers not shown that may have significant over range of operation allowing the location markers to be read from a large distance away which could pose a problem. There are several approaches to manage that over range The power in the location marker reader may be adjusted down to read only a short distance. The antenna size in the location marker and or the location marker reader may be configured to minimize over range. The location marker may be configured with a narrow beam antenna that could be directed at a specific region to narrow the read zone and reduce the over range as shown in . Also as shown in two location markers with narrow beam antennas may be placed nearby one another which could provide direction of motion and the speed of the mobile tracking system as it passes within range of both location markers . The location marker can contain accuracy information that allows the zone of presence around the location marker to be displayed along with the location information. The location marker may store information using encryption techniques that allow only authorized users to read the information.

The location tracking system may be implemented using any appropriate type of computing device such as a mainframe work station a personal computer a server a portable computing device or any other type of intelligent device capable of executing instructions connecting to a network and forwarding data packets through the network and can execute any appropriate computer programs to generate receive and transmit data packets for use on the network.

Each of processes discussed above may be stored on one or more non transitory machine readable media such as computer memory persistent or non persistent to store executable instructions. Each of these devices may also include one or more processing devices e.g. microprocessors programmable logic application specific integrated circuits and so forth for executing the instructions to perform all or part of the functions described herein.

Elements of different implementations described herein may be combined to form other embodiments not specifically set forth above. Elements may be left out of the structures described herein without adversely affecting their operation. Furthermore various separate elements may be combined into one or more individual elements to perform the functions described herein.

An example non limiting application of the WSN is in a security system for intrusion detection fire toxic gas monitor etc. installed at one or more premises such as one or more residential houses or building s and especially in e.g. commercial industrial buildings complexes etc.

The sensors provide in addition to an indication that something is detected in an area within the range of the sensors detailed additional information that can be used to evaluate what that indication may be without the intrusion detection panel being required to perform extensive analysis of inputs to the particular sensor.

For example a motion detector could be configured to analyze the heat signature of a warm body moving in a room to determine if the body is that of a human or a pet. Results of that analysis would be a message or data that conveys information about the body detected. Various sensors thus are used to sense sound motion vibration pressure heat images and so forth in an appropriate combination to detect a true or verified alarm condition at the intrusion detection panel.

Recognition software can be used to discriminate between objects that are a human and objects that are an animal further facial recognition software can be built into video cameras and used to verify that the perimeter intrusion was the result of a recognized authorized individual. Such video cameras would comprise a processor and memory and the recognition software to process inputs captured images by the camera and produce the metadata to convey information regarding recognition or lack of recognition of an individual captured by the video camera. The processing could also alternatively or in addition include information regarding characteristic of the individual in the area captured monitored by the video camera. Thus depending on the circumstances the information would be either metadata received from enhanced motion detectors and video cameras that performed enhanced analysis on inputs to the sensor that gives characteristics of the perimeter intrusion or a metadata resulting from very complex processing that seeks to establish recognition of the object.

Sensor devices can integrate multiple sensors to generate more complex outputs so that the intrusion detection panel can utilize its processing capabilities to execute algorithms that analyze the environment by building virtual images or signatures of the environment to make an intelligent decision about the validity of a breach.

Memory stores program instructions and data used by the processor of the intrusion detection panel. The memory may be a suitable combination of random access memory and read only memory and may host suitable program instructions e.g. firmware or operating software and configuration and operating data and may be organized as a file system or otherwise. The stored program instruction may include one or more authentication processes for authenticating one or more users. The program instructions stored in the memory of the panel may further store software components allowing network communications and establishment of connections to the data network. The software components may for example include an internet protocol IP stack as well as driver components for the various interfaces including the interfaces and the keypad. Other software components suitable for establishing a connection and communicating across network will be apparent to those of ordinary skill.

Program instructions stored in the memory along with configuration data may control overall operation of the panel.

The monitoring server includes one or more processing devices e.g. microprocessors a network interface and a memory all not illustrated . The monitoring server may physically take the form of a rack mounted card and may be in communication with one or more operator terminals not shown . An example monitoring server is a SURGARD SG System III Virtual or similar system.

The processor of each monitoring server acts as a controller for each monitoring server and is in communication with and controls overall operation of each server. The processor may include or be in communication with the memory that stores processor executable instructions controlling the overall operation of the monitoring server. Suitable software enable each monitoring server to receive alarms and cause appropriate actions to occur. Software may include a suitable Internet protocol IP stack and applications clients.

Each monitoring server of the central monitoring station may be associated with an IP address and port s by which it communicates with the control panels and or the user devices to handle alarm events etc. The monitoring server address may be static and thus always identify a particular one of monitoring server to the intrusion detection panels. Alternatively dynamic addresses could be used and associated with static domain names resolved through a domain name service.

The network interface card interfaces with the network to receive incoming signals and may for example take the form of an Ethernet network interface card NIC . The servers may be computers thin clients or the like to which received data representative of an alarm event is passed for handling by human operators. The monitoring station may further include or have access to a subscriber database that includes a database under control of a database engine. The database may contain entries corresponding to the various subscriber devices processes to panels like the panel that are serviced by the monitoring station.

All or part of the processes described herein and their various modifications hereinafter referred to as the processes can be implemented at least in part via a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in one or more tangible physical hardware storage devices that are computer and or machine readable storage devices for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a network.

Actions associated with implementing the processes can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform the functions of the calibration process. All or part of the processes can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array and or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only storage area or a random access storage area or both. Elements of a computer including a server include one or more processors for executing instructions and one or more storage area devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more machine readable storage media such as mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks.

Tangible physical hardware storage devices that are suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile storage including by way of example semiconductor storage area devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash storage area devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks and volatile computer memory e.g. RAM such as static and dynamic RAM as well as erasable memory e.g. flash memory.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other actions may be provided or actions may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Likewise actions depicted in the figures may be performed by different entities or consolidated.

Elements of different embodiments described herein may be combined to form other embodiments not specifically set forth above. Elements may be left out of the processes computer programs Web pages etc. described herein without adversely affecting their operation. Furthermore various separate elements may be combined into one or more individual elements to perform the functions described herein.

Other implementations not specifically described herein are also within the scope of the following claims.

