---

title: Task-based content management
abstract: In some cases, one or more tasks may be selected for inclusion within a content item or portions of a content item such as different story arcs. Each such task may be completed based, at least in part, on an associated set of one or more actions and an associated set of one or more parameters. Also, in some cases, one or more node layouts may be generated in association with a content item or portions of a content item. Each node within a node layout may, for example, have at least one associated task within a respective content item or content item portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09358464&OS=09358464&RS=09358464
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09358464
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140609
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 299 712 filed Jun. 9 2014 entitled TASK BASED CONTENT MANAGEMENT which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Multi participant content items such as multiplayer video games are becoming increasingly popular and widespread. As an example multiplayer video games such as massively multiplayer online MMO games may in some cases enable large numbers of players from multiple remote locations to engage in related gaming experiences. Different players may sometimes participate in such games as individual characters or as members of a group such as a team or faction. Individual players and groups may often compete against rival players and groups for control of geographic regions weapons financial resources and other goods and resources. Multi participant content items may sometimes be played over long time durations within which different participants may join exit and in some cases rejoin the content item multiple times.

There are a number of characteristics associated with multi participant content items that may change dynamically before during and after the content items are played. These changes may sometimes occur rapidly and on a large scale basis. For example the quantity of participants and other participant characteristics may be subject to change. As an example a content item may start out with only 5 participants but that number may quickly rise to 500 and in turn to 5 000 or even 50 000 participants or more. In addition to participant quantity the skill level play style performance preferences interests demographics and other participant characteristics may also be subject to change. In addition to the examples set forth above many other characteristics associated with multi participant content items may also be subject to change.

Various techniques for content management are disclosed herein. The disclosed techniques may be used for example for management of multi participant content items such as multiplayer video games. In some cases one or more tasks may be selected for inclusion within a content item or portions of a content item such as different story arcs. Each such task may be completed based at least in part on an associated set of one or more actions and an associated set of one or more parameters. The actions associated with a task may for example correspond to actions that may be performed by one or more participants as part of the task. For example a task to attack a bridge may include actions such as obtain explosive avoid bridge security plant explosive and detonate explosive. The parameters associated with a task may for example correspond to rules or other conditions associated with the task. Some example parameters may include a number of participants required to complete various actions an allowed time limit within which to complete various actions various alternative action paths sequential relationships between actions various levels of progress for completing a task and the like.

Additionally in some cases one or more node layouts may be generated in association with a content item or portions of a content item. Each node within a node layout may for example have at least one associated task within a respective content item or content item portion. The node layout may for example at least partially indicate one or more relationships between two or more nodes within the node layout. A relationship between nodes may be based on for example virtual geography corresponding to tasks associated with the nodes. A relationship between nodes may also be based on for example an availability of a task associated with one node being based at least in part on a completion of one or more other tasks associated with one or more other nodes. In some cases an indication may be maintained of whether a task associated with each node is available to at least one participant or is not available to any participants. Also in some cases an indication may be maintained of whether a task associated with each node has been completed or has not yet been completed.

In some cases information corresponding to various content item characteristics may be collected before during and or after a playing of a content item. The content item characteristics may include for example participant characteristics task characteristics various timing measurements and other characteristics associated with a content item. Participant characteristics may include for example participant quantity participant skill level participant preferences participant interests participant demographics participant performance participant progress participant play style and the like. The task characteristics may include for example associated actions and parameters a number of participants currently performing each task a progress of completion an elapsed time since initiation a time limit a preferred skill level an associated play style suggested demographics a description associated virtual geography other associated requirements and the like. The content item characteristics may be aggregated over various levels or combinations of levels such as individual participants teams factions and other participant groups all participants individual actions groups of actions individual tasks groups of tasks story arcs node layouts and others. In some cases the collected content item characteristic information may be used to add change and or remove one or more tasks within a content item or content item portion. Also in some cases the collected content item characteristic information may be used to add change and or remove actions and or parameters associated with a task. Furthermore in some cases the collected content item characteristic information may be used to generate and adjust various node layouts such as by adding changing or deleting nodes and by defining or changing a relationship between one or more nodes.

A content provider may in some cases render and transmit content items to participants at client devices over an electronic network such as the Internet. Content items may in some cases be provided upon request to clients using for example streaming content delivery techniques. An example computing environment that enables providing of content to clients will now be described in detail. In particular illustrates an example computing environment in which the embodiments described herein may be implemented. is a diagram schematically illustrating an example of a data center that can provide computing resources to users and which may be referred herein singularly as user or in the plural as users via user computers and which may be referred herein singularly as computer or in the plural as computers via a communications network . Data center may be configured to provide computing resources for executing applications on a permanent or an as needed basis. The computing resources provided by data center may include various types of resources such as gateway resources load balancing resources routing resources networking resources computing resources volatile and non volatile memory resources content delivery resources data processing resources data storage resources data communication resources and the like. Each type of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. For example data processing resources may be available as virtual machine instances that may be configured to provide various web services. In addition combinations of resources may be made available via a network and may be configured as one or more web services. The instances may be configured to execute applications including web services such as application services media services database services processing services gateway services storage services routing services security services encryption services load balancing services application services and the like. These services may be configurable with set or custom applications and may be configurable in size execution cost latency type duration accessibility and in any other dimension. These web services may be configured as available infrastructure for one or more clients and can include one or more applications configured as a platform or as software for one or more clients. These web services may be made available via one or more communications protocols. These communications protocols may include for example hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or non HTTP protocols. These communications protocols may also include for example more reliable transport layer protocols such as transmission control protocol TCP and less reliable transport layer protocols such as user datagram protocol UDP . Data storage resources may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like.

Each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources as web servers and or one large processing resource as a database server for example.

Data center may include servers and which may be referred herein singularly as server or in the plural as servers that provide computing resources. These resources may be available as bare metal resources or as virtual machine instances which may be referred herein singularly as virtual machine instance or in the plural as virtual machine instances . Virtual machine instances and are content management virtual machine CMVM instances. The CMVM virtual machine instances and may be configured to perform all or any portion of the content management techniques and or any other of the disclosed techniques in accordance with the present disclosure and described in detail below. As should be appreciated while the particular example illustrated in includes one CMVM virtual machine in each server this is merely an example. A server may include more than one CMVM virtual machine or may not include any CMVM virtual machines.

The availability of virtualization technologies for computing hardware has afforded benefits for providing large scale computing resources for customers and allowing computing resources to be efficiently and securely shared between multiple customers. For example virtualization technologies may allow a physical computing device to be shared among multiple users by providing each user with one or more virtual machine instances hosted by the physical computing device. A virtual machine instance may be a software emulation of a particular physical computing system that acts as a distinct logical computing system. Such a virtual machine instance provides isolation among multiple operating systems sharing a given physical computing resource. Furthermore some virtualization technologies may provide virtual resources that span one or more physical resources such as a single virtual machine instance with multiple virtual processors that span multiple distinct physical computing systems.

Referring to communications network may for example be a publicly accessible network of linked networks and possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In other embodiments communications network may be a private network such as a corporate or university network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments communications network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet.

Communication network may provide access to computers . User computers may be computers utilized by users or other customers of data center . For instance user computer or may be a server a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a game console a set top box or any other computing device capable of accessing data center . User computer or may connect directly to the Internet e.g. via a cable modem or a Digital Subscriber Line DSL . Although only two user computers and are depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

User computers may also be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by data center . In this regard data center might provide a gateway or web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured through the use of a web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternately a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by data center for performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of various web services available at data center might also be utilized.

Servers shown in may be standard servers configured appropriately for providing the computing resources described above and may provide computing resources for executing one or more web services and or applications. In one embodiment the computing resources may be virtual machine instances . In the example of virtual machine instances each of the servers may be configured to execute an instance manager or which may be referred herein singularly as instance manager or in the plural as instance managers capable of executing the virtual machine instances . The instance managers may be a virtual machine monitor VMM or another type of program configured to enable the execution of virtual machine instances on server for example. As discussed above each of the virtual machine instances may be configured to execute all or a portion of an application.

It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed above discuss the context of virtual machine instances other types of implementations can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances.

In the example data center shown in a router may be utilized to interconnect the servers and . Router may also be connected to gateway which is connected to communications network . Router may be connected to one or more load balancers and alone or in combination may manage communications within networks in data center for example by forwarding packets or other data communications as appropriate based on characteristics of such communications e.g. header information including source and or destination addresses protocol identifiers size processing requirements etc. and or the characteristics of the private network e.g. routes based on network topology etc. . It will be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity various aspects of the computing systems and other devices of this example are illustrated without showing certain conventional details. Additional computing systems and other devices may be interconnected in other embodiments and may be interconnected in different ways.

In the example data center shown in a server manager is also employed to at least in part direct various communications to from and or between servers and . While depicts router positioned between gateway and server manager this is merely an exemplary configuration. In some cases for example server manager may be positioned between gateway and router . Server manager may in some cases examine portions of incoming communications from user computers to determine one or more appropriate servers to receive and or process the incoming communications. Server manager may determine appropriate servers to receive and or process the incoming communications based on factors such as an identity location or other attributes associated with user computers a nature of a task with which the communications are associated a priority of a task with which the communications are associated a duration of a task with which the communications are associated a size and or estimated resource usage of a task with which the communications are associated and many other factors. Server manager may for example collect or otherwise have access to state information and other information associated with various tasks in order to for example assist in managing communications and other operations associated with such tasks.

It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should also be appreciated that data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art. It should also be appreciated that a server gateway or other computing device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs tablets cellphones wireless phones pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes and or personal digital video recorders and various other consumer products that include appropriate communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated modules may in some embodiments be combined in fewer modules or distributed in additional modules. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated modules may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

In at least some embodiments a server that implements a portion or all of one or more of the technologies described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. depicts a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. In the illustrated embodiment computing device includes one or more processors and or which may be referred herein singularly as a processor or in the plural as the processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computing device further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computing device may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing one or more desired functions such as those methods techniques and data described above are shown stored within system memory as code and data .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripherals in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computing device and other device or devices attached to a network or networks such as other computer systems or devices for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as types of Ethernet networks for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs storage area networks or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include non transitory storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computing device via I O interface . A non transitory computer accessible storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM read only memory etc. that may be included in some embodiments of computing device as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as those that may be implemented via network interface . Portions or all of multiple computing devices such as those illustrated in may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality. In some embodiments portions of the described functionality may be implemented using storage devices network devices or special purpose computer systems in addition to or instead of being implemented using general purpose computer systems. The term computing device as used herein refers to at least all these types of devices and is not limited to these types of devices.

A compute node which may be referred to also as a computing node may be implemented on a wide variety of computing environments such as commodity hardware computers virtual machines web services computing clusters and computing appliances. Any of these computing devices or environments may for convenience be described as compute nodes.

A network set up by an entity such as a company or a public sector organization to provide one or more web services such as various types of cloud based computing or storage accessible via the Internet and or other networks to a distributed set of clients may be termed a provider network. Such a provider network may include numerous data centers hosting various resource pools such as collections of physical and or virtualized computer servers storage devices networking equipment and the like needed to implement and distribute the infrastructure and web services offered by the provider network. The resources may in some embodiments be offered to clients in various units related to the web service such as an amount of storage capacity for storage processing capability for processing as instances as sets of related services and the like. A virtual computing instance may for example comprise one or more servers with a specified computational capacity which may be specified by indicating the type and number of CPUs the main memory size and so on and a specified software stack e.g. a particular version of an operating system which may in turn run on top of a hypervisor .

A number of different types of computing devices may be used singly or in combination to implement the resources of the provider network in different embodiments including general purpose or special purpose computer servers storage devices network devices and the like. In some embodiments a client or user may be provided direct access to a resource instance e.g. by giving a user an administrator login and password. In other embodiments the provider network operator may allow clients to specify execution requirements for specified client applications and schedule execution of the applications on behalf of the client on execution platforms such as application server instances Java virtual machines JVMs general purpose or special purpose operating systems platforms that support various interpreted or compiled programming languages such as Ruby Perl Python C C and the like or high performance computing platforms suitable for the applications without for example requiring the client to access an instance or an execution platform directly. A given execution platform may utilize one or more resource instances in some implementations in other implementations multiple execution platforms may be mapped to a single resource instance.

In many environments operators of provider networks that implement different types of virtualized computing storage and or other network accessible functionality may allow customers to reserve or purchase access to resources in various resource acquisition modes. The computing resource provider may provide facilities for customers to select and launch the desired computing resources deploy application components to the computing resources and maintain an application executing in the environment. In addition the computing resource provider may provide further facilities for the customer to quickly and easily scale up or scale down the numbers and types of resources allocated to the application either manually or through automatic scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application change. The computing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units which may be referred to as instances. An instance may represent a physical server hardware platform a virtual machine instance executing on a server or some combination of the two. Various types and configurations of instances may be made available including different sizes of resources executing different operating systems OS and or hypervisors and with various installed software applications runtimes and the like. Instances may further be available in specific availability zones representing a logical region a fault tolerant region a data center or other geographic location of the underlying computing hardware for example. Instances may be copied within an availability zone or across availability zones to improve the redundancy of the instance and instances may be migrated within a particular availability zone or across availability zones. As one example the latency for client communications with a particular server in an availability zone may be less than the latency for client communications with a different server. As such an instance may be migrated from the higher latency server to the lower latency server to improve the overall client experience.

In some embodiments the provider network may be organized into a plurality of geographical regions and each region may include one or more availability zones. An availability zone which may also be referred to as an availability container in turn may comprise one or more distinct locations or data centers configured in such a way that the resources in a given availability zone may be isolated or insulated from failures in other availability zones. That is a failure in one availability zone may not be expected to result in a failure in any other availability zone. Thus the availability profile of a resource instance is intended to be independent of the availability profile of a resource instance in a different availability zone. Clients may be able to protect their applications from failures at a single location by launching multiple application instances in respective availability zones. At the same time in some implementations inexpensive and low latency network connectivity may be provided between resource instances that reside within the same geographical region and network transmissions between resources of the same availability zone may be even faster .

A content provider may for example provide one or more content providing services for providing content to clients. The content providing services may reside on one or more servers. The content providing services may be scalable to meet the demands of one or more customers and may increase or decrease in capability based on the number and type of incoming client requests. Portions of content providing services may also be migrated to be placed in positions of reduced latency with requesting clients. The term content as used herein refers to any presentable information and the term content item as used herein refers to any collection of any such presentable information. The term participant as used herein refers to any entity that participates in a presentation of a content item such as a player that participates in a presentation of a video game.

As set forth above a content item such as a video game may be managed according to various techniques disclosed herein. In particular in some cases a number of tasks may be selected for inclusion within a content item or content item portion. In some cases tasks may be assigned to individual participants or to groups of participants such as teams or factions. Also in some cases the same or similar tasks may be separately assigned to different individual participants and to different groups of participants.

Each task may be completed based at least in part on an associated set of one or more actions. The actions associated with a task may for example correspond to actions that may be performed by one or more participants as part of the task. In order to complete a task a specified number of participants may for example be required to complete one or more action paths within the associated set of one or more actions. Some example action paths are described in detail below. In some cases a set of one or more actions may include only a single action path that different participants are required to complete. However in some other cases a set of one or more actions may include multiple alternative action paths that different participants may complete. Also in some cases there may not be any requirement for one or more participants to complete any action paths. Rather in some cases a task may be completed based on an achievement of a specified level of progress associated with the task without necessarily following or completing any particular action paths.

In some cases a level of progress may be determined based at least in part on a particular number of completed actions. Also in some cases different actions may be assigned different weights and a level of progress may be determined based on a combination of a number of completed actions and their associated weights. Furthermore in some cases one or more actions may be designated as mandatory actions that must be performed by one or more participants while other actions may be designated as optional actions of which for example only a certain number or percentage may need to be completed. It is noted however that even when a particular participant is not required to complete any particular actions paths there may still be requirements for certain actions to be performed in some direct or indirect sequential relationship with respect to one another.

In addition to an associated set of one or more actions a task may also be completed based at least in part on an associated set of one or more parameters. The parameters associated with a task may for example correspond to rules or other conditions associated with the task. Some example parameters may include an indication of various required action paths required quantities of completed actions weights associated with one or more actions rules for calculating a required level of progress mandatory and optional actions sequential relationships between actions a number of participants required to complete one or more actions or action paths an allowed time within which to complete one or more actions or action paths a level of difficulty and or resistance associated with one or more actions gameplay type type of location or terrain e.g. mountain forest town water specific region within an associated virtual geography e.g. specific country or town a preferred participant skill or experience level assigned participants or groups of participants a date and or time range within which the task is available various weapons or other features that may be employed in association with one or more actions and many others. In some cases if the same or a similar task is separately assigned to different participants or to different groups of participants then the required action paths and or parameters may be different for each separately assigned task and may be tracked separately for each separately assigned task.

As should be appreciated it is not required that all associated actions and or parameters be specified for a task at the time that the task is selected for inclusion within a content item or content item portion. In some cases any or all of the associated actions and or parameters may be selected at any appropriate time after selection of the task itself. For example in some cases various associated actions and or parameters may be selected after one or more participants have initiated playing of the content item or even after one or more participants have started to perform the task itself. Additionally as set forth in detail below the associated actions and or parameters may also in some cases be adjusted at any appropriate time.

In some cases information corresponding to content item characteristics may for example be collected before during and or after a playing of a content item. The content item characteristics may include any characteristics associated with a content item. The content item characteristics may include for example participant characteristics task characteristics various timing measurements and other characteristics associated with a content item. Participant characteristics may include for example participant quantity participant skill level participant preferences participant interests participant demographics participant performance participant progress participant play style and the like. The task characteristics may include for example associated actions and parameters a number of participants currently performing each task a progress of completion an elapsed time since initiation a time limit a preferred skill level an associated play style suggested demographics a description associated virtual geography other associated requirements and the like. In some cases the task characteristics for a task may indicate one or more other tasks whose availability is at least partially based upon a completion of the task. Also in some cases the task characteristics for a task may indicate one or more other tasks upon whose completion the availability of the task is at least partially based. The content item characteristics may be aggregated over various levels or combinations of levels such as individual participants teams factions and other participant groups all participants individual actions groups of actions individual tasks groups of tasks story arcs node layouts and others. As an example in some cases the content item characteristics may include action characteristics which may include for example the above described task characteristics measured at the level of individual actions. The content item characteristic information may be collected and updated at any appropriate intervals.

The content item characteristic information may be collected using any combination of various techniques. For example some content item characteristics may be collected by one or more content item manager components operated by a content provider and in some cases executing on one or more servers or other computing devices or environments. Content item characteristics may be collected based on for example information transmitted from content item participants operating one or more connected client computing devices. This may include for example state information associated with the content item as well as personal information associated with the participants themselves. In some cases prior to joining a particular content item participants may be asked to provide personal information that may describe for example their respective skill levels play style demographic information e.g. age gender ethnicity etc. as well as their respective interests and preferences. Also in some cases participant characteristics may be determined and or adjusted by software or algorithms based on an observed or collected history of participant behavior with respect to one or more content items. For example if a participant consistently chooses to perform a sniper role in a number of different tasks then it may be determined that the participant prefers to perform sniper roles. Some example preferences may include a preferred level of violence or action a preferred time limit for gameplay geographic areas of interest subjects of interest hobbies and the like. Content item characteristics may also be collected for example from other sources such as files or code included within the content item itself information from one or more content item developers or information from third parties or other associated entities.

In some cases the collected content item characteristic information may be used to add change and or remove one or more tasks within a content item or content item portion. For example in some cases tasks may be added to a content item or content item portion by matching task characteristics to participant characteristics for participants associated with the content item or content item portion. For example tasks may be added that may match interests preferences skill levels play style demographics and other characteristics of a participant or group of participants. Also in some cases if the participant characteristics change then the tasks may be changed to match the change in player characteristics. Additionally in some cases tasks may be removed and new tasks may be selected to match a change in player characteristics.

Additionally in some cases the collected content item characteristic information may be used to add change and or remove one or more actions in a set of actions associated with a particular task. For example in some cases actions may be selected and added that have action characteristics that match participant characteristics for participants to which a task is assigned. For example actions may be selected that may match interests preferences skill levels play style demographics and other characteristics of a participant or group of participants to which a task is assigned. Also in some cases if the participant characteristics change then the actions may be changed to match the change in player characteristics. Additionally in some cases actions may be removed and new actions may be selected to match the change in player characteristics.

Furthermore in some cases the collected content item characteristic information may be used to add change and or remove one or more parameters in a set of parameters associated with a particular task. For example in some cases parameters may be selected and added based on a goal of having desired quantities and or percentages of participants perform desired actions and tasks within desired time periods. Also in some cases if a task s associated participant characteristics change then the parameters may be adjusted to match the change in player characteristics. Additionally in some cases parameters may be removed and new parameters may be selected to match the change in participant characteristics.

In some cases one or more tasks within a content item or content item portion may be added changed and or removed based at least in part on various code or instructions associated with a content item. For example such underlying code or instructions may describe various tasks available for use with the content item and their available associated features such as actions and parameters. Additionally such underlying code or instructions may sometimes be used at least in part to add change and or remove actions in a set of actions and or parameters in a set of parameters.

Some examples of how actions and or parameters may be added changed and or removed in a set of actions and or set of parameters associated with a task will now be described in detail. In particular depict an example of how actions and parameters may be selected and adjusted based on a quantity of participants. Specifically is a diagram illustrating a first example of information associated with an example task. As shown depicts example actions and example parameter that are associated with an example task . Task is a task to attack a bridge and in the example of task is assigned to Team A.

Example actions include actions A D and optionally additional actions not shown in . In particular action A is Obtain Pre made Explosives action B is Obtain Explosive Raw Material action C is Assemble Explosive action D is Avoid Bridge Security action E is Plant Explosive on Bridge and action F is Detonate Explosive . Example actions include two alternative action paths from start to end . The first action path branches from start to the left to action A and includes actions A and D F. The second action path branches from start to the right to action B and includes actions B F.

In some cases a quantity of participants required to complete an action path may be selected based on for example a desired percentage of a total participants within a team with which a corresponding task is associated. For example for the scenario depicted in it may be determined that it is desirable for ten percent of the participants on Team A to complete an action path associated with task . Thus in such cases parameter may be set to a quantity of 5 participants because 5 is ten percent of the 50 total participants included in Team A as indicated by characteristic . As should be appreciated however there may be various other different factors or logic upon which a selection of parameter such as parameter may be based.

Referring now to example content item characteristic of is updated at a time T which is subsequent to time T. Additionally example content item characteristic of indicates that at time T there are 100 participants on Team A. Accordingly the number of participants on Team A has doubled from time T to subsequent time T. In some cases it may be desirable to adjust a quantity of participants required to complete an action path such that as the quantity of participants on a particular team changes the percentage of participants required to complete an action path remains approximately constant. Thus in example parameter is adjusted such that the quantity of participants on Team A required to complete an action path is also doubled. In particular parameter of which requires 10 participants is double the amount of parameter of which required 5 participants. As should also be appreciated parameter 10 participants continues to be equal to ten percent of characteristic 100 participants . While illustrates an example in which a constant percentage of participants completing an action path is maintained it is noted that this is merely an example case and a constant percentage of participants may not necessarily be maintained in other examples.

In addition to changing the required number of participants completing an action path there are other ways in which a task may be adjusted in response to a change in participant quantity. In particular in in addition to changing the required number of participants completing an action path the example actions are adjusted in comparison to example actions of . Specifically example actions of include an additional action G which is Plant Explosive on Road. The addition of action G results in four action paths being included within example actions . One action path includes actions A and D F another action path includes actions A D G and F another action path includes actions B F and another action path includes actions B D G and F.

There are a number of reasons why an increase in the quantity of participants on Team A may trigger the inclusion of additional action G in example actions . For example the bridge that is being attacked in task may not be large enough for more than approximately 5 participants to plant explosives on the bridge. Accordingly the addition of action G creates an alternative whereby explosives are planted on a road adjacent to the bridge as opposed being planted on the bridge itself. In some cases it may be assumed that approximately half the participants on Team A will choose to plant explosives on the bridge and that approximately the other half of participants on Team A will choose to plant explosives on the road. In some other cases certain participants may be permitted to only plant explosives at one location or the other or may otherwise be influenced by the content item to plant explosives at one location or the other.

Thus show some examples of how actions and parameters may be selected and adjusted based on a quantity of participants. However actions and parameters may also be selected and adjusted based on other characteristics. For example show some examples of how parameters may be selected and adjusted based on team performance. In particular once again shows task with the same example actions as were depicted previously in . There are some differences however between and prior . Specifically in the example of task is assigned to Team B. Additionally includes an example parameter which is Quantity of Team B Participants to Complete Action Path 20. Parameter indicates in order to complete task that 20 participants from Team B are required to complete one of the action paths shown in .

In addition or as an alternative to being compared with other teams Team B s performance level may also be based on an estimated performance level. For example in some cases Team B s performance level at a particular point in the content item may be estimated based on factors such as participant skill level quantity of participants elapsed time since a start of the content item or another point in the content item started and completed tasks and many other factors. The estimated performance level may include for example an estimated amount of completed tasks and controlled geographic areas and resources. For example in some cases if Team B is outperforming the estimated performance level then Team B s performance level may be considered to be higher. By contrast in some cases if Team B is underperforming the estimated performance level then Team B s performance level may be considered to be lower. As another example if Team B is approximately matching the estimated performance level then in some cases Team B s performance level may be considered to be moderate.

Referring now to example content item characteristic of is updated at a time T which is subsequent to time T. Additionally example content item characteristic of indicates that at time T Team B s performance level has decreased from higher to lower. As shown in in response to this change in Team B s performance level the actions associated with task are adjusted. In particular includes example actions which are identical to example actions of with the exception that action D Avoid Bridge Security is removed from example actions of . By removing action D Avoid Bridge Security from the example actions it is assumed in some cases that task may be completed more quickly and more easily by the participants on Team B. Additionally in some cases allowing Team B to more easily complete task may also improve the performance level of Team B. In some cases in combination with removing action D the content item may also be adjusted such that the bridge security is either eliminated or only minimally interferes with participants on team B as they perform task . Furthermore includes an example parameter in which the quantity of participants from Team B required to complete an action path is reduced from 20 as indicated in example parameter of to 15. As should be appreciated in some cases reducing the number of participants required to complete an action path associated with a task may also allow the task to be completed more quickly.

It is noted that the example adjustments depicted in are merely some examples of adjustments that may be made in response to a decrease in performance level. For example in some other cases a decrease in performance level may cause actions and parameters to be adjusted such that completion of tasks becomes more difficult instead of less difficult. For example a decrease in performance level by a particular team may allow competing teams to acquire more resources that could be used against the particular team as it attempts to complete a task.

Thus show some examples of how actions and parameters may be adjusted based on a team performance level. However actions and parameters may also be adjusted based on other characteristics. For example show some examples of how parameters may be adjusted based on participant preferences. In particular once again shows task with the same example actions as were depicted previously in . There are some differences however between and prior . Specifically in the example of task is assigned to Team C. Additionally includes an example parameter which is Time Limit for Team C Participants to Complete Action Path 10 Minutes. Parameter indicates that participants from Team C have a time limit of 10 minutes to complete one of the action paths within example actions . This time limit may for example be measured from a single particular start time or may be measured from a different start time for one or more different participants. For example each participant s particular time limit may start from the time at which the participant enters a certain geographic area or from the occurrence of some other participant specific event such as when the participant performs a first action in an action path.

Referring now to example content item characteristic of is updated at a time T which is subsequent to time T. Additionally example content item characteristic of indicates that at time T Team C s preference has changed from a lower level of violence as indicated in characteristic of to a higher level of violence as indicated in characteristic of . As shown in in response to this change in Team C s preferences the actions associated with task are adjusted. In particular includes example actions which are identical to example actions of with the exception that action D Avoid Bridge Security is removed from example actions of and replaced in with action D Win Combat with Bridge Security . It is assumed that the action D Win Combat with Bridge Security may be more appropriate than action D Avoid Bridge Security for participants that prefer a higher level of violence within the content item. By contrast it is assumed that that the action D Avoid Bridge Security may be more appropriate than action D Win Combat with Bridge Security for participants that prefer a lower level of violence within the content item. Furthermore includes an example parameter in which the time limit for completing an action path is increased from 10 minutes as indicated in example parameter of to 12 minutes. As should be appreciated in some cases it is expected that it may take longer to win combat with bridge security as depicted in than to simply avoid bridge security as depicted in . Accordingly in the time limit for completing an action path is increased to allow more time for winning combat with bridge security as depicted in .

In some cases the parameters associated with a task may include various participant roles that may be employed in connection with the task. For example a task that involves attacking an enemy base may include roles such as snipers scouts hand to hand combat participants tank operators pilots and the like. In some cases each of the associated roles may be assigned to one or more participants. Each of the roles may for example have their own associated actions or action paths for completion by the participants to whom the roles are assigned. Each of the roles may also have their own associated parameters such as a number or percentage of participants on a team to which each role will be assigned. In some cases the roles and their associated actions and parameters may be selected and adjusted based on one or more content item characteristics. For example if a greater than expected number of enemy troops are deployed to defend an enemy base then an increased quantity of snipers may be required to attempt to eliminate the enemy troops.

Accordingly as set forth above one or more tasks and one or more associated actions and parameters may be selected and adjusted based at least in part on content item characteristics. In some cases one or more selected tasks such as example task described above may each be associated with a node in a node layout such as a graph or another collection of data or construct. For example data may be generated in accordance with one or more node layouts to represent a particular content item or portions of a content item such as different story arcs.

Each node within a node layout may for example have at least one associated task within a respective content item or content item portion. The node layout may for example at least partially indicate one or more relationships between two or more nodes within the node layout. A relationship between nodes may be based on for example virtual geography corresponding to tasks associated with various nodes. A relationship between nodes may also be based on for example an availability of a task associated with one node being based at least in part on a completion of one or more other tasks associated with one or more other nodes. A node layout is a construct that includes a plurality of nodes corresponding to a content item or content item portion. A node layout may for example be a graph or be represented using a graph. However there is no requirement that a node layout be a graph or be represented using a graph. For example in some cases a node layout may simply be a collection of data or other construct.

A content item may for example have one or more associated node layouts each corresponding to one or more particular story arcs and to one or more participants or groups of participants. In some examples one or more node layouts may be generated for a content item in which participants may interact with each other directly in a consistent world such as may occur for example in an MMO game. In some other examples participants may have separate or partially separate experiences that are influenced by each other such as may occur for example with disconnected or partially disconnected characters that share a similar story world with similar major events. In some cases one or more content item designers may create an overall story arc and provide initial information describing what happens during the arc such as how long the arc should last quantities and other characteristics of included tasks quantities and other characteristics of participants involved and the like. The content item designers may include for example human content item designers and or software component content item designers. In some cases there may be multiple simultaneous story arcs that influence one another and an arc may branch based on factors such as participant choices or performance.

In some cases based on factors such as a designed story arc one or more associated tasks and one or more content item characteristics as described above a node layout may be generated to represent a content item or content item portion. A node layout may sometimes be generated at a higher level during an initialization step while lower level details of the node layout may be filled in as content item play progresses through the content item or content item portion. For example in some cases a node layout generated at a higher level may include various nodes that are reserved for tasks that have not yet been specified. The tasks associated with these nodes may then be specified at a later time after playing of the content item or content item portion has been initiated. In some cases the amount of story progress per completed task may be tuned dynamically and or automatically so that participants progress towards the end of the story with a desired velocity.

Various techniques for determining when a task is completed are set forth in detail above. One such example technique includes determining that a specified quantity of participants has completed an action path associated with the task. In some cases a node layout and or associated data may indicate which nodes within the node layout correspond to tasks that are completed and that have yet to be completed. For example in node layout each node associated with a completed task is indicated with a rectangular shape while each node associated with an uncompleted task is indicated with an ovular shape. As shown in only a single node is associated with a completed task while the remaining nodes and are associated with uncompleted tasks. For purposes of simplicity nodes that are associated with completed tasks are referred to herein as completed nodes while nodes that are associated with uncompleted tasks are referred to herein as uncompleted nodes. includes a box that lists completed nodes in node layout including node and a box that lists the uncompleted nodes in node layout including nodes and .

In some cases one or more tasks associated with nodes in a node layout may be designated as being either available or unavailable. There are a number of factors that may cause a task to be designated as being either available or unavailable. For example in some cases the availability of one or more tasks may be at least partially based on a completion of one or more other tasks. This may occur for example when tasks are associated with respective geographic areas. For example an availability of a task associated with a particular geographic area may be at least partially based on a completion of at least one other task that results in control of at least one neighboring geographic area. As another example in some cases a particular task may require the use of one or more resources that are acquired as a result of a completion of one or more other tasks. For example a particular task may require the use of a special weapon or key that is acquired as a result of a completion of one or more other tasks. In these and other cases an availability of a particular task may be at least partially based on a completion of one or more other tasks. Furthermore in some cases other factors may be involved in designating a particular task as being either available or unavailable. For example the availability of some tasks may be at least partially based on factors such as a minimum and or maximum quantity of participants a minimum and or maximum participant skill level various participant preferences an elapsed time limit from the start of the content item or another point within the content item.

In some cases a node layout and or associated data may indicate which nodes within the node layout are associated with tasks that are available or unavailable. For example in node layout each node associated with an available task is shown with bolder i.e. thicker outlining while each node associated with an unavailable task is shown with thinner outlining. As shown in nodes and are associated with available tasks while nodes and are associated with unavailable tasks. For purposes of simplicity nodes that are associated with available tasks are referred to herein as available nodes while nodes that are associated with unavailable tasks are referred to herein as unavailable nodes. includes a box that lists the available nodes in node layout including nodes and and a box that lists the unavailable nodes in node layout including nodes and .

In some cases a node layout and or associated data may indicate when an availability of a task associated with a particular node is at least partially based on a completion of one or more other tasks associated with one or more other nodes. For example the arrows pointing from node to node may indicate that the availability of the task associated with node is at least partially based on a completion of the task associated with node . For example referring now to it is seen that depicts a node layout . Node layout of is identical to node layout of with the exceptions that in node layout node has changed from an oval to a square and node has changed from a thinner outline to a thicker outline. Thus node layout represents the scenario in which the task associated with node is completed. Additionally the task associated with node has responsively become available at least in part due to the completion of the task associated with node .

A node layout and or associated data may for example at least partially indicate one or more relationships between two or more nodes within the node layout. A relationship between nodes may be based on for example virtual geography corresponding to tasks associated with various nodes. For example the node layout and or associated data may sometimes indicate which nodes are associated with tasks that correspond to geographic areas that are adjacent to one another in a virtual geography associated with the content item. A relationship between nodes may also be based on for example an availability of a task associated with one node being based at least in part on a completion of one or more other tasks associated with one or more other nodes. As set forth above these types of relationships may be based on factors such as virtual geography weapons resources and various other factors.

Each node of a node layout may for example have at least one associated task within the at least portion of the video game. In some cases each node may include or otherwise be associated with data corresponding to the at least one associated task. This data may include for example a task title a task identifier associated actions and parameters indications of relationships to one or more other nodes indications of whether an associated task is available or unavailable timing measurements indications of whether an associated task is completed or uncompleted associated content item characteristics such as task and or action characteristics participant characteristics and various other characteristics and data. When a task and or its associated actions and parameters are changed an associated node and or associated data may also be changed to reflect the changes to the task actions and or parameters.

A node layout and or associated data may also be used to track and or to represent the progress of a respective content item and or content item portion corresponding to the node layout. For example in some cases when the content item and or content item portion is initiated each of the nodes in the node layout may indicate that their associated tasks are not yet completed. As the content item and or content item portion progresses the nodes may gradually change from an indication of an uncompleted task to indication of a completed task. Finally in some cases when all nodes in the node layout indicate that their respective tasks are complete the respective content item and or content item portion may also be considered to be completed. In these and other cases a node layout and its included nodes may sometimes be used to indicate a percentage of ownership that a respective participant or team has acquired with respect to a story arc or other content item or content item portion to which the node layout corresponds.

A node layout and or associated data may also be used to assign participants to one or more tasks. For example a task scheduler may sometimes be employed to examine a node layout and or associated data and to assign participants to tasks based at least in part on the node layout and or associated data. In particular in some cases at the initiation of a content item or content item portion corresponding to the node layout participants may be assigned to one or more tasks that are indicated by the node layout as being available tasks. As participants complete their assigned tasks they may then be reassigned to other tasks that are indicated by the node layout and or associated data as being available tasks. Additionally as new participants join the content item the new participants may also be assigned to one or more tasks that are indicated by the node layout and or associated data as being available tasks. In some cases participants may be assigned to tasks based at least in part on a comparison of participant characteristics associated with the participant to task characteristics for one or more available tasks. The participant may then for example be assigned to a task that is determined to have task characteristics that match the participant characteristics of the participant. In some cases in addition to individual participants characteristics for teams or other groups of participants or even for all active participants may be compared to one or more task characteristics. Also in some cases characteristics of even some presently unavailable tasks may be considered for example in anticipation of their eventual availability.

It should be appreciated that node layouts and are merely some example node layouts that may be employed in accordance with the disclosed techniques. For example while represent scenarios in which each node in a node layout corresponds to a single associated task there may be other scenarios in which one or more nodes in a node layout correspond to multiple associated tasks. As another example in some cases a node layout or portions of a node layout may be acyclic while in some other cases a node layout or portions of a node layout may be cyclic. As another example in some cases a node layout or portions of a node layout may include directed dependencies between nodes while in some other cases a node layout or portions of a node layout may not include directed dependencies between nodes. As yet another example in some cases a node layout or portions a node layout may include one or more start nodes and or one or more end nodes while in some other cases a node layout or portions of a node layout may not include one or more start nodes and or one or more end nodes. Furthermore in some cases a content item and or content item portion may be configured to run indefinitely and or to run at least temporarily without a defined and point. Accordingly in some cases node layouts may also be configured to extend indefinitely and or at least temporarily without a clearly defined end point. Also in some cases one or more nodes within a particular node layout may cross over into or otherwise be associated with nodes in another node layout. This may occur for example when participants on multiple different teams are performing the same or similar tasks associated with the nodes that cross over between node layouts. In some cases participants on different teams may perform these tasks with different roles and with different associated parameters and or actions.

In some cases one or more nodes in a node layout may be adjusted based on for example content item characteristics. Content item characteristics are described in detail above and this description is not repeated here. As a specific example in some cases when a team is not completing tasks as quickly as expected the team s performance level may be considered to be lower. In such cases one or more nodes may sometimes be removed from a node layout associated with the team. Removal of nodes from the node layout may for example reduce the amount of tasks that the team is required to complete in order to complete an associated story arc within the content item. This reduction of tasks may in some cases help to offset the slow progress of the team and allow the team to complete the associated story arc within a desired time period.

An example of the adjustment described above is depicted in . Specifically includes an example content item characteristic that is updated at Time T. The video example content item characteristic is Team D Performance Level Moderate. This indicates that at Time T Team D s performance level within its associated story arc is moderate. As set forth above a moderate performance level may indicate in some cases that Team D is completing tasks approximately as quickly as expected. Adjacent to example content item characteristic is shown a first node layout that represents Team D s story arc at time T. Additionally includes an example content item characteristic that is updated at Time T which is subsequent to Time T. The example content item characteristic is Team D Performance Level Lower. This indicates that at time T Team D s performance level has decreased from moderate to lower. As set forth above this decrease in performance level may be due to for example Team D not completing tasks as quickly as expected. Adjacent to example content item characteristic is shown a second node layout that represents Team D s story arc at time T. As shown in Team D s node layout has been adjusted based on Team D s decrease in performance from Time T to Time T. In particular by comparing node layouts and it can be seen that two nodes nodes and that were included in node layout have been removed from node layout . As set forth above removing of nodes from the node layout may for example reduce the amount of tasks that Team D is required to complete which may enable Team D to complete its associated story arc within a desired time period.

It is noted that in addition to removing nodes a node layout may also be adjusted in other ways to help offset lower than expected performance by a team. For example an unavailable node whose availability is dependent upon the completion of other uncompleted nodes may sometimes be rearranged within the node layout such that its availability is no longer dependent upon the completion of other uncompleted nodes. This may cause the rearranged node to become available. This may have the effect of increasing a quantity of tasks that can be performed in parallel by participants on a team. By allowing participants on a team to perform a greater quantity of tasks in parallel the team may sometimes be able to complete more tasks within a shorter time period.

As another specific example in some cases when a team is completing tasks more quickly than expected the team s performance level may be considered to be higher. In such cases one or more nodes may sometimes be added to a node layout associated with the team. Adding of nodes to the node layout may for example increase the amount of tasks that the team is required to complete in order to complete an associated story arc within the content item. This increase of tasks may in some cases help to offset the fast progress of the team and help prevent the team from completing an associated story too quickly.

An example of the adjustment described above is depicted in . Specifically includes an example content item characteristic that is updated at Time T. The video example content item characteristic is Team E Performance Level Moderate. This indicates that at Time T Team E s performance level within its associated story arc is moderate. As set forth above a moderate performance level may indicate in some cases that Team E is completing tasks approximately as quickly as expected. Adjacent to example content item characteristic is shown a first node layout that represents Team E s story arc at time T. Additionally includes an example content item characteristic that is updated at Time T which is subsequent to Time T. The example content item characteristic is Team E Performance Level Higher. This indicates that at time T Team E s performance level has changed from moderate to higher. As set forth above this increase in performance level may be due to for example Team E completing tasks more quickly than expected. Adjacent to example content item characteristic is shown a second node layout that represents Team E s story arc at time T. As shown in Team E s node layout has been adjusted based on Team E s increase in performance from Time T to Time T. In particular by comparing node layouts and it can be seen that two nodes nodes and that are not included in node layout have been added to node layout . As set forth above adding of nodes to node layout may for example increase the amount of tasks that Team E is required to complete which may prevent Team E from completing an associated story too quickly.

It is noted that in addition to adding nodes a node layout may also be adjusted in other ways to help offset higher than expected performance by a team. For example an available node may sometimes be rearranged within the node layout such that its availability becomes dependent upon the completion of other uncompleted nodes. This may cause the rearranged node to become at least temporarily unavailable until the tasks associated with the other nodes are completed. This may have the effect of decreasing a quantity of tasks that can be performed in parallel by participants on a team. By allowing participants on a team to be perform a lower quantity of tasks in parallel the team may sometimes require a longer time period in order to complete tasks in a story arc.

Thus some examples of addition subtraction and rearrangement of nodes in a node layout are set forth above. Additionally in some cases multiple different node layouts may be wholly or partially combined with one another. For example depicts two separate node layouts including nodes and including nodes . Referring now to it can be seen that node layouts and have combined into a single node layout . This may occur for example when a task leads into a node layout associated with another story arc. This may also occur for example when participants or teams with separate story arcs join forces and work together in a shared story arc. As should also be appreciated in some cases a single node layout may be divided into multiple different node layouts. For example node layout of could be divided node layouts and of . This may also occur for example when participants on a team choose to follow separate story arcs. It is noted however that even when participating in separate story arcs the participants may sometimes continue to work together towards a common goal and may eventually rejoin into a team and possible re merge node layouts.

In some cases the content management techniques set forth above may be at least partially implemented using various templates such as node templates and task templates. In some cases node templates and task templates may be merged into different types of a single general object. Also in some cases the employed templates may include both general and specific templates. As an example in some cases a game designer may create one or more general node templates for use in association with a content item. In some cases this may be done only once such as at the initiation or earlier stages of a playing of a content item. In other cases this may be done multiple times. For example one or more general node templates may be added to a content item while the content item is being played. In some cases a general node template may become available when it becomes connected to other nodes and its associated prerequisites for availability such as those described above are satisfied.

In some cases a general node template may reference one or more specific nodes that may be selected for use with an associated content item or content item portion. Also in some cases a general node template may represent a node sub layout that may for example include one or more other node templates which themselves may also reference other node templates. A general node template may for example represent a specific or general task template a list of tasks from which one or more tasks may be chosen one or more sub nodes or a sub layout of other general or specific nodes or a list from which any of these features may be selected. In some cases a general node template may be available or unavailable to all participants or to one or more specific participants. Also in some cases a general node template may include parameters and or task characteristics for associated tasks such as participants to whom the tasks can be assigned an indication of other tasks upon whose completion an availability of associated tasks are based and other prerequisites for availability of associated tasks.

As another example a general task template may in some cases be a type of node that may itself include a list of one or more general task templates to select from. One or more of the listed general task templates may be selected for assignment to one or more participants. A general task template may also for example include an associated specific task template. A general task template may also for example include a set of task templates that must all be completed in sequence in parallel by multiple participants or in any other defined or undefined order.

In addition to general task templates specific task templates may also be employed. A specific task template may include for example a list or other identification of a set of one or more associated parameters such as those described above. In some cases one or more of the associated parameters may each have a corresponding type a specific value a list of specific values from which a corresponding specific value may be selected or a range of values. As set forth above some examples of associated parameters may include a number of participants required to complete one or more actions or action paths gameplay type type of location or terrain e.g. mountain forest town water specific region within an associated virtual geography e.g. specific country or town a preferred participant skill or experience level assigned participants or groups of participants and a date and or time range within which the task is available. A gameplay type may indicate for example game specific types of play or goals e.g. capture the flag race action stealth melee attack raid etc. . As also set forth above in some cases one or more specific values and or value ranges may be selected and or adjusted based on content item characteristics such as those described in detail above.

Thus one or more tasks may each have one or more associated task templates that may be used for example for setting various parameters associated with each task. A task template may for example be used to assign a particular task to a particular participant and the particular task may be performed in accordance with associated parameters such a specific location or area within a virtual geography specific actions or action paths for completion a specific gameplay type and other associated parameters.

In some cases node templates and or task templates may be used to add nodes to a node layout by expanding an existing node within a node layout. is a diagram illustrating an example expansion of a node in a node layout. As shown includes a first node layout and a second node layout . By comparing first node layout with second node layout it can be seen that node has expanded from a single node in first node layout to a six node sub layout in second node layout . The six node sub layout in second node layout includes nodes . In some examples nodes may be selected from a list of available nodes within a template corresponding to node .

Thus various example techniques are set forth above for management of content. An example content management system in accordance with the disclosed techniques is depicted in . As shown includes clients A C in communication with content provider . As should be appreciated while three clients A C are shown in any number of different clients may be used in accordance with the disclosed techniques. Clients A C may for example each participate in a transmission session of a particular content item. Clients A C each receive a transmission of a respective presentation of the content item from a respective one of three streaming servers A C. It is noted however that the disclosed techniques are not limited to the use of streaming technology or to the use of separate servers for transmission to each client. Rather any number of servers may be employed in accordance with the present techniques for transmission to any number of different clients. The content item presentations transmitted to clients A C is rendered by one or more graphics processing units . As should be appreciated graphics processing units A C are merely one example type of processing component that may be used to process and provide content for presentation to participants. In addition or as an alternative to graphics processing units A C any number of other processing components may also be employed to process and provide content for presentation to participants. These other processing components may include for example audio processing components other graphics and video processing components video and audio encoders and decoders and many others. In some cases content items may be rendered by one or more graphics processing units and or other processing components at one or more of clients A C. In these cases content provider may send instructions to the clients A C for rendering of the content items at the clients A C.

Content provider includes a content item manager which may perform various operations in association with the content management techniques disclosed herein. Content item manager may be for example a video game manager which is a content item manager that manages video games. Content item manager may have access to various information including for example content item characteristics and content item information . Content item characteristics are described in detail above. Content item information may include for example data associated with node layouts and associated tasks actions and parameters node and or task templates and other associated data. Content item characteristics and content item information may be for example generated collected maintained and or adjusted by content item manager . As should be appreciated various portions of content item characteristics and content item information may include shared or duplicative data.

As an example content item information may include code or other stored information about available nodes tasks actions and or parameters that may be selected for inclusion in a content item or content item portion. Content item information may also include indications of the nodes tasks actions and or parameters that are currently selected for inclusion in a content item or content item portion. As set forth above in some cases nodes tasks actions and or parameters may be selected for inclusion in a content item prior to playing of the content item at the initiation of playing of the content item and or during the playing of a content item. In some cases the selected nodes tasks actions and or parameters may also be adjusted prior to playing of the content item at the initiation of playing of the content item and or during the playing of a content item. As also set forth above in some cases various nodes tasks actions and or parameters may be selected for inclusion in a content item or content item portion and or adjusted based on content item characteristics .

Some operations performed by content item manager may include for example collection of content item characteristics generation of one or more story arcs including selection of included tasks and associated actions and parameters generation of one or more node layouts and associated data monitoring progress of one or more participants and teams adjustment of various tasks and associated actions and parameters adjustment of one or more node layouts and associated data generating instructions for providing portions of a content item for presentation to one or more participants and the like. Additionally as shown in content item manager includes a task scheduler which as set forth above may perform operations such as assigning participants to various available tasks. As also set forth above the assignment of participants to tasks may in some cases be performed based on various content item characteristics including for example comparisons of various participant characteristics to various task characteristics.

At operation information corresponding to content item characteristics is collected. Content item characteristics including for example participant characteristics task characteristics and other characteristics are described in detail throughout the disclosure above and these descriptions are not repeated here. As set forth above content item characteristics may be collected based on for example information transmitted from content item participants operating one or more connected client computing devices. This may include for example state information associated with the content item as well as personal information associated with the participants themselves. Also in some cases participant characteristics may be determined and or adjusted by software or algorithms based on an observed or collected history of participant behavior with respect to one or more content items. Additionally content item characteristics may also be collected for example from other sources such as files or code included within the content item itself information from one or more content item developers or information from third parties or other associated entities.

At operation a set of one or more actions and or a set of one or more parameters associated with the identified task is set based at least in part on the content item characteristics information collected at operation . Operation may include for example adding changing and or removing one or more actions in the set of one or more actions and or one or more parameters in the set of one or more parameters. In some cases all or various portions of operation may be performed using one or more task templates and or node templates such as described above. Operation may for example include an initial setting i.e. generating of the set of one or more actions and or the set of one or more parameters. The initial setting i.e. generating of the set of one or more actions and or the set of one or more parameters may include selecting and adding one or more actions to the set of one or more actions and or one or more parameters to the set of one or more parameters. Operation may also for example include a modified setting i.e. adjusting of the set of one or more actions and or the set of one or more parameters. The modified setting i.e. adjusting of the set of one or more actions and or the set of one or more parameters may include adding changing and or removing one or more actions in the set of one or more actions and or one or more parameters in the set of one or more parameters.

As set forth above in some cases an action may be added to the set of actions associated with a task when the action has action characteristics that match participant characteristics for participants to which a task is assigned. For example actions may be selected that may match interests preferences skill levels play style demographics and other characteristics of a participant or group of participants to which a task is assigned. Also in some cases if the participant characteristics change then the actions may be changed to match the change in participant characteristics. Additionally in some cases actions may be removed and new actions may be selected to match the change in participant characteristics. As also set forth above in some cases parameters may be added to the set of parameters associated with a task based on a goal of having desired quantities and or percentages of participants perform desired actions and tasks within desired time periods. Also in some cases if a task s associated participant characteristics change then the parameters may be adjusted to match the change in participant characteristics. Additionally in some cases parameters may be removed and new parameters may be selected to match the change in participant characteristics. Some specific examples of adding changing and or removing actions and or parameters based on content item characteristics are set forth above respect to .

It is noted that there is no requirement that operation must be performed every time that information corresponding to content item characteristics is collected. For example in some cases a collection of content item characteristics may include few if any relevant changes with respect to previously collected content item characteristics. In these and other cases there may be no actions and or parameters added changed or removed in the associated sets of actions and parameters and operation may be skipped.

At operation instructions are generated for providing the at least portion of the content item based at least in part on the set of actions and the set of parameters. For example at operation instructions may be generated that enable the task identified at operation to be at least partially performed by one or more participants in accordance with the set of actions and the set of parameters. In particular instructions may be generated for creating one or more scenes that correspond to the identified task based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. In some cases various attributes of the scenes may also be determined based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. For example in some cases the contents sequence timing and duration of the scenes may be determined based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. In particular various characters activities weapons resources geographic locations settings play styles level of resistance and other information associated with the scenes may be determined based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. Furthermore for example the activities and interactions of various characters and other objects within a scene may be determined based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. For example in a scene corresponding to an attack task one or more sniper characters may be included in the scene and positioned with rifles around a perimeter of the scene while one or more combat troop characters may be included in the scene and may engage in combat with one another in a central area of the scene. The positions and interactions of the sniper characters and combat troop characters may be determined based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. Additionally the participants and or groups of participants to which the various scenes are presented may be determined based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. For example in some cases images of a scene may be presented to one or more participants that control characters that are included within a scene based at least in part on the associated actions and parameters. As another example in some cases when a quantity of participants required to complete an action path is reduced the task may become immediately completed and participants that were still in the process of attempting to complete an action path associated with the task may be re assigned to other tasks. This may cause for example scenes associated with the completed task to cease to be presented to the re assigned participants. The re assigned participants may subsequently be presented with scenes associated with the other tasks to which they are re assigned.

At operation the at least portion of the content item is provided for presentation to one or more participants. Operation may be performed based at least in part on the instructions generated at operation . For example at operation one or more graphics processing units and or other processing components may render or otherwise provide one or more images in accordance with one or more scenes generated in association with operation . In some cases the rendered images may be transmitted from a content provider to one or more participants operating connected client devices. In some other cases the images may be rendered by one or more graphics processing units and or other processing components at one or more connected client devices based on information transmitted from a content provider. The rendered images may then be presented to the one or more participants via the connected client devices. At operation it is determined whether the task identified at operation is completed. As set forth above a completion of a task may be determined based at least in part on the associated set of one or more actions and the associated set of one or more parameters that are set at operation . Some detailed examples of how a completion of a task may be determined are described above and are not repeated here. If the task is not completed then the process loops back to operation . If the task is completed then at operation data associated with the task is adjusted to indicate a completion of the task. For example as set forth above a node layout may include a node associated with the task and data within or otherwise associated with the node may be adjusted to indicate that the task is completed.

At operation a node layout is generated or adjusted based at least in part on the information collected at operation and the tasks associated with the at least portion of the content item at operation . In some cases the node layout may be generated during the first iteration of operation while the node layout may be adjusted during subsequent iterations of operation . In some cases all or various portions of operation may be performed using one or more task templates and or node templates such as described above. As set forth above each node within a node layout may for example have at least one associated task within a respective content item or content item portion. The node layout may for example at least partially indicate one or more relationships between two or more nodes within the node layout. A relationship between nodes may be based on for example virtual geography corresponding to tasks associated with the nodes. A relationship between nodes may also be based on for example an availability of a task associated with one node being based at least in part on a completion of one or more other tasks associated with one or more other nodes. In some cases the node layout may include an indication of whether a task associated with each node is available to at least one participant or is not available to any participants. Also in some cases the node layout may include an indication of whether a task associated with each node has been completed or is not yet completed. In addition to the node layout itself associated data corresponding to one or more nodes of the node layout may also in some cases be generated and adjusted based at least in part on the information collected at operation and the tasks associated with the at least portion of the content item at operation .

As set forth above in some cases the task characteristics for a task may indicate one or more other tasks whose availability is at least partially based upon a completion of the task. Also in some cases the task characteristics for a task may indicate one or more other tasks upon whose completion the availability of the task is at least partially based. This task information and other collected content item characteristics information may be used for example to generate and adjust the node layout. Furthermore for example task characteristics may sometimes indicate a virtual geography associated with one or more tasks that may also be used to generate and adjust the node layout. Additionally a sequence in which one or more tasks are made available to a particular participant or group of participants may also in some cases be determined based upon participant characteristics such as interests preferences skill levels play style demographics and other characteristics.

At operation instructions are generated for providing the at least portion of the content item based at least in part on the set of actions and the set of parameters. For example at operation instructions may be generated that enable one or more available tasks associated with nodes in the node layout to be at least partially performed by one or more participants. In particular instructions may be generated for creating scenes that correspond to the one or more available tasks. Some examples techniques for creating one or more scenes that correspond to a task are described above for example with reference to operation of . The node layout may for example be used to determine which scenes associated with which available tasks should be presented to which of one or more participants associated with the at least portion of the content item. For example as set forth above the node layout may be used to assign one or more participants to one or more available tasks by for example comparing and matching various participant characteristics to various task characteristics. In some cases each participant that is currently assigned to a particular task may be presented with an image that is rendered based on a created scene that corresponds to the particular task.

At operation the at least portion of the content item is provided for presentation to one or more participants. Operation may be performed based at least in part on the instructions generated at operation . For example at operation one or more graphics processing units and or other processing components may render or otherwise provide one or more images in accordance with one or more scenes generated in association with operation . In some cases the rendered images may be transmitted from a content provider to one or more participants operating connected client devices. In some other cases the images may be rendered by one or more graphics processing units and or other processing components at one or more connected client devices based on information transmitted from a content provider. The rendered images may then be presented to the one or more participants via the connected client devices. At operation it is determined whether all of the tasks associated with the at least portion of the content item at operation are completed. As set forth above a completion of each task may be determined based at least in part on an associated set of one or more actions and the associated set of one or more parameters. If all of the associated tasks are completed then at operation the at least portion of the content item is completed. As set forth above in some cases a content item or a portion of a content item may be designed such that it continues indefinitely and or to run at least temporarily without a defined and point. In such cases operation may not be included as part of the process depicted in .

If the associated tasks are not completed then the process loops back to operation . As should be appreciated upon looping back to operation the process may repeat itself. In particular upon being repeated updated information corresponding to content item characteristics may be collected at operation . As set forth above the updated content item characteristic information collected at repeated operation may be used to determine whether tasks should be added changed or removed within the at least portion of the content item. Accordingly when operation is repeated newly added and or changed tasks may for example be associated and or re associated with the at least portion of the content item. Additionally for example removed tasks may be removed from association with the at least portion of the content item.

The updated content item characteristic information collected at repeated operation may be also used to adjust a node layout as set forth in detail above. Accordingly upon being repeated operation may include adjusting of the node layout and potentially associated data based at least in part on the information collected at repeated operation and the tasks associated with the at least portion of the content item at repeated operation . As set forth above a node layout may be adjusted by for example adding changing or deleting nodes or by changing a relationship between one or more nodes. In some cases nodes may be added to a node layout by expanding a single existing node to include multiple different nodes such as described above with reference to .

Additionally in some cases upon repeating the process of operation and or operation may be skipped. For example in some cases when operation is repeated a collection of content item characteristics may include few if any relevant changes with respect to previously collected content item characteristics. In these and other cases there may be no changes to the associated tasks and or the relationships between the associated tasks with respect to the at least portion of the content item.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers or computer processors. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain methods or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used and that these items or portions thereof may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

