---

title: Switchable antifouling coatings and uses thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to antifouling coatings capable of being switched by using heat or ultraviolet light. Prior to switching, the coating includes an onium cation component having antimicrobial and antibacterial properties. Upon switching, the coating is converted to a conjugated polymer state, and the cationic component is released with any adsorbed biofilm layer. Thus, the coatings herein have switchable and releasable properties. Methods of making and using such coatings are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580608&OS=09580608&RS=09580608
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09580608
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140808
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to an antifouling coating having releasable and switchable properties. In particular these coatings can be switched by exposure to heat or ultraviolet light. Methods of making and using such coatings are also described herein.

Biofouling is the accumulation of microorganisms plants algae or animals on wetted surfaces. Marine biofouling begins with the adhesion of a conditioning film of proteins and polysaccharides within minutes of submerging an artificial surface in seawater. Within a day bacteria and single cell diatoms can attach to the conditioning film initiating the formation of a biofilm. Within weeks colonizers such as algal spores barnacle cyprids and marine fungi become attached to the biofilm to form a thick coating. Such biofouling increases the weight hydrodynamic friction and corrosion of shipping vessels and other marine systems see e.g. Majumdar P et al. Combinatorial materials research applied to the development of new surface coatings XV an investigation of polysiloxane anti fouling fouling release coatings containing tethered quaternary ammonium salt groups 2011 13 298 309.

For example marine hydrokinetic MHK technologies harness the energy of water as it moves and are vital in providing clean and sustainable energy. Biofouling presents an ongoing problem for MHKs as water organisms cling to their surfaces resulting in a decrease in operation efficiency. Development of effective antifouling coatings to facilitate easy removal of organisms or prevent adhesion would ensure MHKs continue to operate at optimal efficiency over time.

Historically antifouling coatings have been used to prevent or delay the biofouling accumulation. Traditional commercial coatings have included biocides comprising chemical substances incorporated into an antifouling surface coating that deter or kill the microorganisms responsible for formation of the biofilm. The most common biocides are tributyltin TBT leachable cuprous oxide and self polishing copolymers with alkyl silane functional monomers. However these biocides are persistent toxins to larger aquatic organisms and are being phased out. In addition low toxicity fouling release and antifoulants such as polysiloxane and quaternary ammonium salts have also been investigated. The hydrophobic polysiloxanes prevent adhesion of larger microorganisms and enable the release of fouling organisms at high speed but have problems with mechanical strength and long term stability.

Many of these coatings rely on ammonium salts that are amphoteric surfactants see e.g. McBain A J et al. Effects of quaternary ammonium based formulations on bacterial community dynamics and antimicrobial susceptibility 2004 70 6 3449 59 . The antimicrobial and antibacterial mode of action of the quaternary ammonium salts has been described for ammonium salts that contain a long chain aliphatic moiety which can penetrate a cell wall leading to lysis Hugo W B The mode of action of antibacterial agents 1967 30 1 17 50 . Ammonium based coatings have been used for greater than 50 years due in part to their broad spectrum antimicrobial activity see e.g. Pant R R et al. Synthesis and biocidal efficacy of self spreading polydimethylsiloxane oligomers possessing oxyethylene functionalized quaternary ammoniums 2009 113 2397 403 . Benzalkonium chlorides have been increasingly used as additives in disinfectant cleaning formulations.

Current estimates indicate that the total US anti microbial market will reach close to 1 billion by the year 2015 see e.g. Anti microbial Coatings A US Market Report Global Industry Analysts Inc. 2011 . As the market size increases there is a real need for the development of novel high performance antimicrobial and antibacterial coatings. Furthermore some organisms have become resistant to the ammonium based antimicrobials and antibacterials necessitating the need for alternative coating methodologies Heir E et al. Resistance to quaternary ammonium compounds in spp. isolated from the food industry and nucleotide sequence of the resistance plasmid pST8271995 August 79 2 149 56 .

One of the largest problems of current coatings is that fact that they are not long lived because additional microorganisms eventually colonize the remains of the cells that were lysed initially by the antifouling coatings. Therefore a need remains for an alternative type of antifouling coating capable of facilitating the removal of the dead organisms and accumulated biofilm.

Accordingly the present invention relates to antifouling coatings having releasable and switchable properties.

In one aspect the invention features an antifouling coating having releasable and switchable properties the coating including an onium cation e.g. a sulfonium cation an ammonium cation an oxonium cation a diazonium cation a halonium cation or a phosphonium cation covalently attached to an alpha carbon of a polymer where the coating is configured to release the cation upon thermal or photochemical treatment.

In some embodiments the polymer includes one or more hydrogens covalently attached to a beta carbon that is adjacent to the alpha carbon.

In some embodiments upon thermal or photochemical treatment the coating is configured to release a fouling release layer including the cation and to maintain a polymerized layer on a surface where the polymerized layer includes a conjugated form of the polymer.

In other embodiments the polymer includes a polyphenylene backbone and or a polysiloxane backbone. In further embodiments a polymerized layer on a surface includes a conjugated form of the polyphenylene backbone or the polysiloxane backbone.

In another aspect the invention features a substrate including an antifouling coating having releasable and switchable properties on a surface thereof where the coating includes an onium cation covalently attached to an alpha carbon of a polymer and where the coating is configured to release the cation upon thermal or photochemical treatment.

In some embodiments the polymer includes one or more hydrogens covalently attached to a beta carbon that is adjacent to the alpha carbon. In some embodiments upon thermal or photochemical treatment the coating is configured to release a fouling release layer including the cation and to maintain a polymerized layer on the substrate where the polymerized layer includes a conjugated form of the polymer. In other embodiments the substrate further includes a primer layer disposed between the coating and the surface of the substrate.

In yet another aspect the invention features a method of treating a marine surface the method including applying a first antifouling coating having releasable and switchable properties on the marine surface or a portion thereof where the coating includes an onium cation covalently attached to an alpha carbon of a polymer and treating the first coating with heat or ultraviolet light to release the cation thereby maintaining a polymerized layer on the marine surface where the polymerized layer includes a conjugated form of the polymer.

In some embodiments the method further includes treating the polymerized layer with one or more onium cation precursors to generate a second antifouling coating on the marine surface.

In any embodiment herein the coating includes an onium cation covalently attached to an alpha carbon of a polymer where the coating is configured to release the cation upon thermal or photochemical treatment.

In any embodiment herein the antifouling coating includes a polycationic sulfonium containing polymer as a demand switchable antibiofouling coating. The sulfonium group is linked at the benzylic position of a poly phenylene vinylene PPV precursor polymer. The polymer can be switched to a conjugated polymer with heat or ultraviolet UV light. As the coating is converted to the conjugated PPV state the coating exhibits a volume change shrinking the coating by as much as 65 . The volume change combined with the low surface adhesion of the biofilm to the remaining PPV results in the removal of the attached biofilm.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

By alkenyl is meant an optionally substituted Calkyl group having one or more double bonds. The alkenyl group can be cyclic e.g. Ccycloalkenyl or acyclic. The alkenyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkenyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl e.g. any described herein cycloalkyl alkoxy amino carboxyl C O OH ether halo hydroxyl nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol.

By alkoxy is meant OR where R is an optionally substituted alkyl group as described herein. Exemplary alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy butoxy trihaloalkoxy such as trifluoromethoxy etc. The alkoxy group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkoxy group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl e.g. any described herein cycloalkyl alkoxy amino carboxyl C O OH ether halo hydroxyl nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol.

By alkyl is meant a branched or unbranched saturated hydrocarbon group of 1 to 24 carbon atoms such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl n pentyl isopentyl s pentyl neopentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl dodecyl tetradecyl hexadecyl eicosyl tetracosyl and the like. The alkyl group can be cyclic e.g. Ccycloalkyl or acyclic. The alkyl group can be branched or unbranched. The alkyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl alkoxy amino carboxyl C O OH ether halo hydroxyl nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol. The alkyl group can be a primary secondary or tertiary alkyl group substituted with one or more substituents e.g. one or more halo or alkoxy . In some embodiments the alkyl group is a C C C C C C or Calkyl group.

By alkylene is meant a divalent form of an alkyl group as described herein. Exemplary alkylene groups include methylene ethylene propylene butylene etc. In some embodiments the alkylene group is a C C C C C C C C C C C C C or Calkylene group. The alkylene group can be branched or unbranched. The alkylene group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkylene group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl alkoxy amino carboxyl C O OH ether halo hydroxyl nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol.

By alkynyl is meant an optionally substituted Calkyl group having one or more triple bonds. The alkynyl group can be cyclic or acyclic. The alkynyl group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the alkynyl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl e.g. any described herein cycloalkyl alkoxy amino carboxyl C O OH ether halo hydroxyl nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol.

By amino is meant NRR where each of Rand Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocycle.

By ammonium is meant a group including a protonated nitrogen atom N. Exemplary ammonium groups include NRRR where each of R R and Ris independently H or optionally substituted alkyl or Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which each are attached form a heterocycle or Rand R taken together form an optionally substituted alkylene or heteroalkylene e.g. as described herein .

By anion is meant a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron. Exemplary non limiting anions include a halide e.g. F Cl Br or I a hydroxide e.g. OH a borate e.g. tetrafluoroborate BF a carbonate e.g. CO or HCO or a sulfate e.g. SO .

By aryl is meant a group that contains any carbon based aromatic group including but not limited to benzyl naphthalene phenyl biphenyl phenoxybenzene and the like. The term aryl also includes heteroaryl which is defined as a group that contains an aromatic group that has at least one heteroatom incorporated within the ring of the aromatic group. Examples of heteroatoms include but are not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur and phosphorus. Likewise the term non heteroaryl which is also included in the term aryl defines a group that contains an aromatic group that does not contain a heteroatom. The aryl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The aryl group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl e.g. haloalkyl such as any described herein halo cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl alkynyl cycloalkynyl aryl heteroaryl aldehyde amino carboxyl C O OH ester ether halo hydroxyl ketone azide nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol.

By halonium is meant a group including X where X is halo as defined herein. Exemplary halonium groups include an iodonium group e.g. I a bromonium group e.g. Br a chloronium group e.g. Cl or a fluoronium group e.g. F .

By heteroalkylene is meant a divalent form of an alkylene group as defined herein containing one two three or four non carbon heteroatoms e.g. independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen phosphorous sulfur or halo .

By heterocycle is meant a 5 6 or 7 membered ring unless otherwise specified containing one two three or four non carbon heteroatoms e.g. independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen phosphorous sulfur or halo . The 5 membered ring has zero to two double bonds and the 6 and 7 membered rings have zero to three double bonds. The term heterocycle also includes bicyclic tricyclic and tetracyclic groups in which any of the above heterocyclic rings is fused to one two or three rings independently selected from the group consisting of an aryl ring a cyclohexane ring a cyclohexene ring a cyclopentane ring a cyclopentene ring and another monocyclic heterocyclic ring such as indolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl benzofuryl benzothienyl and the like. Heterocyclics include thiiranyl thietanyl tetrahydrothienyl thianyl thiepanyl aziridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl azepanyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyridyl homopiperidinyl pyrazinyl piperazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolidiniyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thiazolyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl isothiazolidinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl thienyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl isoindazoyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxadiazolyl uricyl thiadiazolyl pyrimidyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl dihydrothienyl dihydroindolyl tetrahydroquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl dithiazolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl and the like.

By oxonium is meant a group including a protonated oxygen atom O. Exemplary oxonium groups include ORR where each of Rand Ris independently H optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl or optionally substituted aryl or wherein Rand R taken together form an optionally substituted alkylene or heteroalkylene e.g. as described herein .

By phosphonium is meant a group including a protonated phosphorous atom P. Exemplary phosphonium groups include PRRR where each of R R and Ris independently H optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl or optionally substituted aryl or wherein two of R R and R taken together form an optionally substituted alkylene or heteroalkylene e.g. as described herein .

By siloxane is meant a group including SiO or capable of forming SiO groups. The siloxane group can be cyclic or acyclic. The siloxane group can include Si OR where each Ris independently H or an optionally substituted alkyl group e.g. any described herein or can include Si R where each R is independently H optionally substituted alkyl or halo. The siloxane group can also be substituted or unsubstituted. For example the siloxane group can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to alkyl e.g. any described herein cycloalkyl alkoxy amino carboxyl C O OH ether halo hydroxyl nitro silyl sulfo oxo or thiol.

By sulfonium is meant a group including a protonated sulfur atom S. Exemplary sulfonium groups include SRR where each of Rand Ris independently H optionally substituted alkyl or optionally substituted alkenyl or Rand R taken together with the sulfur atom to which each are attached form a heterocycle or Rand R taken together form an optionally substituted alkylene or heteroalkylene e.g. as described herein .

By attaching attachment or related word forms is meant any covalent or non covalent bonding interaction between two components. Non covalent bonding interactions include without limitation hydrogen bonding ionic interactions halogen bonding electrostatic interactions bond interactions hydrophobic interactions inclusion complexes clathration van der Waals interactions and combinations thereof.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to releasable and switchable coatings. For instance the coating is releasable because a portion of the coating can be released from a surface. As shown in when a coating accumulates biofilm on the surface exposure of the coating to heat results in release of a portion of the coating and any biofilm attached to that released coating.

In addition the coating is switchable because an external stimulus e.g. heat or ultraviolet light e.g. light of from about 100 nm to 400 nm is required to convert the coating from a first polymeric structure e.g. including cations into a second polymeric structure e.g. lacking such cations but having a conjugated structure . For instance the coating of the invention can include a polymer having a backbone and one or more pendant groups having onium cations. In particular the polymer is configured to undergo an elimination reaction thereby cleaving the onium cation upon exposure to a stimulus. Thus the first polymeric structure includes both the backbone and onium cations and the second polymeric structure includes a conjugated structure arising from the elimination reaction but lacks the cations.

In particular embodiments the switchable coating provides an antimicrobial surface prior to switching and a nonfouling surface after switching. Such a coating would be beneficial to release adhered bacterial cells. In addition the switching properties can be further tuned. For instance one or more leaving groups on the polymer can be chosen in order to promote elimination and subsequent formation of the conjugated alkene bond in the polymerized layer.

Described herein are polymers for such coatings as well as methods of making and using such coatings.

As can be seen the polymers of the invention include an onium cation B. B includes any onium cation useful for preparing a biocidal antimicrobial and or antifouling coating. Exemplary onium cations B include a sulfonium cation e.g. SRRor SRR an ammonium cation e.g. NRRRor NRRR an oxonium cation e.g. ORRor ORR a diazonium cation N a halonium cation X or a phosphonium cation e.g. PRRRor PRRR where exemplary R groups are described herein. Exemplary precursor agents B to synthesize such onium cations are also described herein.

In particular the polymers and coatings of the invention are configured to be switchable. For instance shows polymer I capable of being switched thereby forming conjugated polymers III A and or III B . In another instance shows polymer II being switched to form conjugated polymer IV A and or IV B .

Switching of the polymer can be conducted using heat or photoactivation. For instance thermal conditions include exposure to heat e.g. more than about 120 C. e.g. between about 120 C. to 250 C. . In another instance photoactivation conditions include exposure to ultraviolet light e.g. between about 280 nm to 320 nm .

The polymers of the invention can be synthesized using any useful procedure e.g. any described herein . Unless otherwise noted R L X A and or B groups include any described herein.

In one embodiment the PPV based polymer is synthesized according to Scheme I. As can be seen compound 1 is an aryl based reactant where each of L L and L is independently H or a leaving group e.g. any described herein and each of X X and Xis independently H halo optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl or a leaving group e.g. any described herein . The phenyl ring of compound 1 is optionally substituted e.g. with any group provided herein for an aryl group .

Compound 1 is reacted with an onium precursor agent B 2 in a solvent e.g. a polar solvent such as a polar protic solvent e.g. MeOH to form polymer precursor 3 having a sulfonium cation. Optionally sulfide agent 2 reacts with both benzylic carbons on compound 1 thereby forming a precursor where one of X X or Lis SRR.

The onium precursor agent can be any useful agent. For example for a sulfonium cation the precursor onium agent can be a sulfide agent SRR thereby providing polymer I A . In another example for an oxonium cation the precursor onium agent can be an alcohol agent ROH or an ether agent ROR thereby providing polymer II B . In yet another example for an ammonium cation the precursor onium agent can be an ammonia agent NRRR thereby providing polymer II B . Other precursor agents and onium are described herein and a skilled artisan would understand that such oniums are encompassed by polymer I .

In one embodiment precursor 3 is polymerized with monomer 4 to a form copolymer and an anion exchange reaction is performed with ZA to provide copolymer I . In some embodiments each of Land Lis independently H or a leaving group e.g. any described herein and each of X X X and X is independently H halo optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl or a leaving group e.g. any described herein . In further embodiments Z is an alkali cation e.g. Na or K or an alkaline cation e.g. Mg Ca or Sr and A is an anion e.g. Cl Br OH BF HCO or SO . Alternatively the anion exchange reaction includes the use of an oxidizing agent e.g. AgO to provide anion OH .

In another embodiment precursor 3 is polymerized without other monomers to form a polymer and an anion exchange reaction is performed with ZA e.g. any described herein to provide polymer I A . Examples encompassed by Scheme I include those provided in .

In one embodiment the siloxane based polymer is synthesized according to Scheme II. As can be seen compound 5 is a siloxane monomer where Lis H or a leaving group e.g. any described herein Xis a linker e.g. any described herein and each of R R and R is independently H optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl or a leaving group e.g. any described herein .

In one embodiment the siloxane monomer 5 is polymerized to form a siloxane polymer 6 which is then reacted with an onium precursor agent B in a solvent e.g. any described herein . Next an anion exchange reaction is performed with A e.g. with ZA such as any described herein or an oxidizing agent e.g. AgO to provide the cationic polymer II C . Exemplary onium precursor agents include a sulfide agent e.g. SRR an amine agent e.g. NRRR an alcohol agent e.g. HOR an ether agent e.g. ORR a halide agent e.g. I Br Cl F aryl halide and alkyl halide in optional combinations with organotrifluoroborates a halonium ylide agent e.g. a phenyliodonium ylide a diazonium agent e.g. NHcombined with NO and or a phosphine agent e.g. PRRR where R R and Ris independently any useful functional group e.g. H halo optionally substituted Calkyl optionally substituted Calkenyl or optionally substituted aryl or where Rand R taken together with the heteroatom atom to which each are attached form an optionally substituted heterocycle or where Rand R taken together comprises an optionally substituted Calkylene or an optionally substituted Cheteroalkylene .

In another embodiment siloxane monomer 5 is polymerized in the presence of another monomer 7 where each of R R R and R is independently H hydroxyl optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkenyl optionally substituted alkoxy halo or a leaving group e.g. any described herein thereby forming a siloxane copolymer 8 .

The copolymer 8 can be reacted with various onium precursor agents B in any useful solvent e.g. a polar solvent such as any described herein and then reacted with A e.g. with ZA such as any described herein to provide the cationic copolymer II .

In one embodiment the onium precursor agent is a sulfide agent e.g. SRR thereby forming the siloxane based sulfonium polymer II A . In another embodiment the onium precursor agent is an amine agent e.g. NRRR thereby forming the siloxane based ammonium polymer II B .

Examples encompassed by Scheme II include those provided in . provides a synthetic scheme for siloxane based copolymer II 3 having an ammonium cation. provides a synthetic scheme for siloxane based polymers II Ca and II Cb which can include a sulfonium or an ammonium cation.

For any reaction herein the polymerization reaction can be performed under any useful conditions. For instance precursor 3 or 5 either with or without monomer 4 or 7 can be polymerized in the presence of a base e.g. NaOH an acid a catalyst e.g. Nafion which is a sulfonated tetrafluoroethylene based fluoropolymer copolymer and or a membrane in a polar solvent or solvent system e.g. acetone dimethylformamide acetonitrile tetrahydrofuran ethyl acetate dimethyl sulfoxide water ethanol methanol isopropanol or combinations thereof .

For any structure provided herein the leaving group can be a chloride a bromide an iodide a fluoride an onium group e.g. any described herein such as sulfonium ammonium or oxonium an ester an xanthate a nitrile an amine a nitro group a carbonate a dithiocarbamate a sulfonium group an oxonium group an iodonium group a pyridinium group an ammonium group a borate group a borane group a sulphinyl group or a sulfonyl group as well as protonated alkylated halogenated e.g. triflate forms or protected forms e.g. tosylated or mesylated forms of any of these. Methods of making and testing polymers are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 955 945 8 426 321 and 8 427 809 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

For any structure provided herein the linker can be any group capable of participating in an elimination reaction that cleaves the onium component from the polymer. For instance the linker can be an alkylene or heteroalkylene group having H on the beta carbon thereby allowing the onium cation of the alpha carbon to leave.

Exemplary methods of synthesizing and characterizing polymers are described in Johnson R S et al. Thermally induced failure of polymer dielectrics 2010 April 22 15 1750 3 Johnson R S et al. Photopatterning poly p phenylenevinylene from xanthate precursor polymers . . 2011 Apr. 7 47 13 3936 8 Burn P L et al. Precursor route chemistry and electronic properties of poly p phenylenevinylene poly 2 5 dimethyl p phenylene vinylene and poly 2 5 dimethoxy p phenylene vinylene 1 1992 23 3225 31 Johnson R S et al. Thermally activated pentanol delivery from precursor poly p phenylenevinylene s for MEMS lubrication 2012 Aug. 28 33 16 1346 50 Johnson R S et al. Photolithographic patterning of alkoxy substituted poly p phenylenevinylene s from xanthate precursors 2013 1 1428 33 Kanazawa A et al. Novel polycationic biocides synthesis and antibacterial activity of polymeric phosphonium salts 1993 October 31 335 43 Kanazawa A et al. Antibacterial activity of polymeric sulfonium salts 1993 October 31 11 2873 6 and Wessling R A The polymerization of xylylene bisdialkyl sulfonium salts 1985 72 55 66 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The coatings can include any additional modifications or components that would increase its antibiofouling characteristics and or improve its release properties. Exemplary modifications include the addition of one or more antimicrobials or antibiotics e.g. antimicrobial peptides biocides e.g. oxides of copper and zinc and isothiazolone particles e.g. nanoparticle microspheres or carriers such as hydroxyapatite enzymes e.g. proteases brush polymers poly ethylene glycol etc. In addition the coatings of the invention can be provided in any useful form such as in a water insoluble matrix e.g. rosin .

Additional modifications are described in Banerjee I et al. Antifouling coatings recent developments in the design of surfaces that prevent fouling by proteins bacteria and marine organisms Adv. Mater. 2011 23 690 718 Charnley M et al. Designed polymer structures with antifouling antimicrobial properties 2011 71 329 34 Dafforn K A et al. Antifouling strategies history and regulation ecological impacts and mitigation 2011 62 453 65 Salta M et al. Assessment of marine biofilm attachment and growth for antifouling surfaces under static and controlled hydrodynamic conditions 2011 1356 DOI 10.1557 opl.2011.1139 7 pages Salta M et al. Marine biofilms on artificial surfaces structure and dynamics Environ. Microbiol. 2013 15 11 2879 93 Siedenbiedel F et al. Antimicrobial polymers in solution and on surfaces overview and functional principles Polymers 2012 4 46 71 and Tu Q et al. Antifouling properties of poly dimethylsiloxane surfaces modified with quaternized poly dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate 2013 102 361 70 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The antifouling coating can be used to coat any useful surface or substrate. Exemplary surfaces and substrates include metals e.g. aluminum stainless steel galvanized steel iron etc. glass plastics e.g. high density polyethylene HDPE fiberglass etc. polymers filters and membranes e.g. polysulfone membranes . The surface of any useful article can be coated. Exemplary surfaces include marine surfaces e.g. surfaces on marine hydrokinetic devices such as a powerbuoy a wave attenuator or a tidal turbine water treatment membranes marine devices pipes cooling towers and medical devices. Marine surfaces include any surface that is in contact with fresh salt estuarine brackish sea or other bodies of water including for example ship surfaces e.g. ship hulls boat hulls submarine hulls propellers rudders keels centerboards fins hydrofoils deck surfaces antennae aquatic constructions barges bells bridges buoys cables cooling system surfaces cooling water intake or discharge pipes cranes depth charges docks dredges fish preserving structures fishing nets floating beacons floating breakwaters gun barrels gun mounts jetties ladders launch tubes mines nautical beacons periscopes piers pipelines pipes pipes plumbs pontoons port facilities pumps ropes seaside industrial plants snorkels tanks torpedoes transponders turbines valves water pipes in power stations wharves wheels and wires.

Additional surfaces include medical devices catheters biosensors such as any described in Banerjee I et al. Antifouling coatings recent developments in the design of surfaces that prevent fouling by proteins bacteria and marine organisms 2011 23 690 718 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The surface can optionally be modified with a primer and or a siloxane polymer. Exemplary primers include an epoxy based primer a polyamide epoxy based primer a vinyl based primer e.g. Intertuf 203 available from Akzo Nobel Chemicals Pasadena Calif. a zinc based primer e.g. a zinc rich ethyl silicate primer such as Interzinc 22 available from Akzo Nobel Chemicals Pasadena Calif. etc. Exemplary epoxy based primers include a polymer of epoxy resin and bisphenol A including commercially available forms e.g. Intergard 264 or Intertuf 362 available from Akzo Nobel Chemicals Pasadena Calif. . Exemplary siloxane polymers include those formed from a trialkoxy siloxane a trihalide siloxane etc.

Furthermore the surface can be treated or coated in any useful manner. For instance the entire surface can be treated to include a uniform coating of the polymer e.g. formulas I or II . In other embodiments the surface can be heterogeneous in which patterns of the polymer can be included.

The coating can be prepared and tested by any useful method as described below. Methods for preparing the coating include spray coating painting brushing spin coating casting or dip coating the polymer e.g. formula I or II onto a surface and then drying or curing the polymer.

The present invention encompasses optional use of a primed surface. In some instances a primed surface allows for indirect or direct attachment of the coating of the invention. In particular non reactive surfaces e.g. metals can be activated by applying a primer. In other instances the surface is not primed.

The coatings can be tested in any useful manner. In some embodiments the method includes inoculating a coating with bacteria incubating the coating with the bacteria rinsing the coating e.g. to remove non adherent bacteria optionally treating the coating with water under pressure staining the coating to detect a biofilm if present and extracting and or quantifying the stain.

In other embodiments the method includes inoculating a coating with microalgae incubating the coating with the microalgae rinsing the coating e.g. to remove non adherent microalgae optionally treating the coating with water under pressure extracting and or quantifying chlorophyll e.g. such as measuring fluorescence .

The coatings can be tested by any useful technique. Exemplary techniques include surface spectroscopy methods such as X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS atomic force microscopy AFM or scanning electron microscopy SEM surface energy measurement techniques such as tensiometry or measurement of contact angles as well as algal and or bacterial assays including inoculation of surfaces with algal or bacterial samples measurement of settled or adhered spores or cells exposure of inoculated surfaces to shear forces and or visualization of biomass by fluorescence or optical methods.

Additional methods for preparing and or testing coatings are provided in Graham M V et al. Development of antifouling surfaces to reduce bacterial attachment 2013 9 6235 44 Kuroki H et al. Stimuli responsive materials with self healing antifouling surface via 3D polymer grafting 2013 23 4593 600 Li M et al Surface modification of silicone for biomedical applications requiring long term antibacterial antifouling and hemocompatible properties 2012 28 16408 22 Liu Y et al. Surface structures of PDMS incorporated with quaternary ammonium salts designed for antibiofouling and fouling release applications 2013 29 2897 905 Majumdar P et al. Combinatorial materials research applied to the development of new surface coatings XV an investigation of polysiloxane anti fouling fouling release coatings containing tethered quaternary ammonium salt groups 2011 May 9 13 3 298 309 Pant R R et al. Synthesis and biocidal efficacy of self spreading polydimethylsiloxane oligomers possessing oxyethylene functionalized quaternary ammoniums 2009 113 2397 403 Pranzetti A et al. An electrically reversible switchable surface to control and study early bacterial adhesion dynamics in real time 2013 25 2181 5 Xie L et al. Coatings with a self generating hydrogel surface for antifouling 2011 52 3738 44 Xue L et al. Bio inspired self cleaning PAAS hydrogel released coating for marine antifouling 2014 421 178 83 and Zhao X et al. Hierarchically engineered membrane surfaces with superior antifouling and self cleaning properties 2013 441 93 101 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention can be adapted for many uses including without limitation e.g. on marine surfaces for marine hydrokinetic devices e.g. a powerbuoy a wave attenuator or a tidal turbine water treatment membranes marine devices pipes cooling towers as well as on medical devices. Other surfaces include those on biomedical devices biosensors etc.

In particular biofouling in marine applications occur over various different time scales and length scales. For instance different time scales are particular for the particular species such as about 1 minute for molecular fouling about hours to weeks for microfouling e.g. about 1 24 hours for bacteria and about 1 week for microalgae or fungi and about 2 3 weeks for macrofouling e.g. by macroalgae or invertebrates . Regarding length scales biofouling occurs as a function of the penetration depth of the surface. For instance biofouling generally occurs first as a conditioning film for molecular fouling then the deposition of bacteria microalgae and fungi for microfouling and next the deposition of macroalgae and invertebrates for macrofouling. In some embodiments the coating of the invention includes control of biofouling on any of these time and or length scales e.g. on marine surfaces .

Finally the present invention can be useful to control biofouling from any source. Exemplary sources include microorganisms e.g. bacteria algal spores single cell diatoms barnacle cyprids tubeworms parasites and marine fungi plants algae cells e.g. mammalian cells such as endothelial cells or red blood cells animals as well as extracellular proteins e.g. polysaccharides or fibronectin or metabolites of any of these organisms.

Polymeric biocides comprise a class of polymers with antimicrobial activity that inhibits the growth of microorganisms. Typically polymeric biocides are produced by attaching an active antimicrobial agent onto a polymer backbone via an alkyl or acetyl linker. Generally polymeric biocides enhance the antimicrobial activity of the small molecule agent yet are nonvolatile and chemically stable decreasing environmental concerns. Polymeric biocides typically kill bacteria by first adsorbing onto the bacterial cell wall. Since most bacterial surfaces are negatively charged adsorption is typically most effective with cationic biocides.

The antimicrobial agent then diffuses through the cell wall and is adsorbed onto the cytoplasmic membrane. The disruption of the cytoplasmic membrane and subsequent leakage of the cytoplasm leads to death of the cell. The antimicrobial activity can be affected by the molecular weight of the polymer the structure of the counter anion associated with the polymer and the spacer length of the alkyl chain. See Kanazawa A et al. Antibacterial activity of polymeric sulfonium salts 1993 31 2873 6 and Kanazawa A et al. Novel polycationic biocides synthesis and antibacterial activity of polymeric phosphonium salts 1993 31 335 43.

Ideally an antifouling polymer should be easily and inexpensively synthesized be stable in long term storage and usage be insoluble in water to prevent toxicity issues not decompose or emit toxic products be regenerated upon loss of activity and or have a high antimicrobial activity toward biofouling microorganisms. Kanazawa et al. have investigated the antibacterial activity of both phosphonium and sulfonium based polymeric biocides. They found that these polymeric biocides exhibit high antibacterial activity and that the high positive charge of the polycations favored adsorption to and diffusion into the negative cell membrane. See Kanazawa A et al. Antibacterial activity of polymeric sulfonium salts 1993 31 2873 6 and Kanazawa A et al. Novel polycationic biocides synthesis and antibacterial activity of polymeric phosphonium salts 1993 31 335 43.

The present invention is directed to an onium based polymer that has similar antimicrobial and antibacterial properties to quaternary ammonium salts as the mode of biocidal action can be similar to the mode of action of the ammonium salts. For example the onium based polymer can comprise a sulfonium based polymer. Polymeric sulfonium salts can provide a biocide by tethering to a coating surface where the alkyl side chain acts as a biocide.

As shown in the sulfonium is linked at the benzylic position of a poly phenylene ethylene polymer I 1 . This type polymer can be transformed to a conjugated polymer eliminating thioether using heat or UV light resulting in p phenylene vinylene PPV III 1 . See Johnson R S et al. Photopatterning poly p phenylenevinylene from xanthate precursor polymers . . 2011 Apr. 7 47 13 3936 8. and Johnson R S et al. Thermally induced failure of polymer dielectrics 2010 April 22 15 1750 3.

The polymeric sulfonium is therefore thermally and or photochemically switchable. The structural change also leads to a decrease in adhesion. Therefore coatings prepared using this polymer can have a releasable aspect to them. As shown in as the conjugated polymer forms upon heat or light activation the attached biofilm can be detached and lifted away from the surface .

Returning now to the synthesis of an exemplary sulfonium based polymer biocide I 1 starts by reacting dichloro p xylene 1a with methyloctylsulfide 2a in a solvent e.g. methanol or acetone to yield monomer 3a in reasonable yield e.g. about 40 50 . When the polymerization is conducted in chloroform the yield can be much lower at only 20 . The reaction can proceed by first polymerizing the monomer 3a to form a polymer I 1a and then subsequently performing the anion exchange reaction to form polymer I 1 .

Alternatively the monomer e.g. monomer 3a can be subjected to an anion exchange reaction using sodium tetrafluoroborate in water to produce a sulfonium monomer having anion BF and then polymerization of the monomer can be accomplished e.g. using sodium hydroxide in a wet acetone solution . After a short time the solution becomes viscous indicating polymerization is taking place forming a polymer. Other onium based polymer biocides can also be used such as diazonium halonium or phosphonium based biocides.

Isolated and purified polymer I 1 can be dissolved in a solvent e.g. acetone spray deposited or dip coated onto a surface and then dried. Upon solvent evaporation the coating can be used as an antifouling coating. Since the active sulfonium group is a great leaving group the polymer can be photochemically or thermally converted to a conjugated PPV III 1 thereby eliminating a thioether e.g. as a portion of the fouling release layer and transforming the poly phenylene ethylene to p phenylene vinylene PPV e.g. thereby forming the conjugated polymerized layer . In the process of conversion the contact angle of the surface will change as well as the volume of the polymer. This change in contact angle and volume can be used to pop off the attached biofilm.

Preferably the sulfonium based polymeric biocide is insoluble in water to prevent toxicity issues and provide an extended life of the antibiofouling coating. shows a synthesis of a sulfonium based copolymer biocide to reduce water solubility. Specifically describes the synthesis of copolymer I 3 by reacting dichloro p xylene 1a with phenylene ethylene 2 methyl dioctyl sulfonium dichloride 3a .

PPV based polymers and copolymers were synthesized having either sulfonium or ammonium cation groups.

Sulfonium PPV based polymer I 1 was synthesized as provided in . In brief dichloro p xylene 1a was reacted with methyloctylsulfide 2a to provide the sulfonium precursor 3a . This precursor 3a was polymerized to form polymer I 1a which was then reacted with NaBFfor an anion exchange reaction that formed polymer I 1 . As can be seen switching of polymer I 1 provides conjugated PPV polymer III 1 .

Thermal exposure resulted in elimination of the cation group and formation of conjugated polymer III 1 . As shown in thermogravimetric analyses showed that polymer I 1 displayed about 65 weight loss upon exposure to temperatures between 120 C. and 315 C. left . UV Vis spectroscopy also confirmed thermal elimination at about 120 C. right .

The polymer can have any useful cation. For instance sulfonium PPV based polymer I 2 includes a cyclic sulfonium group to reduce water solubility. As shown in synthesis of this polymer includes use of a cyclic sulfide agent 2b to provide monomer 3b which can be polymerized and treated with the appropriate anion source to provide polymer I 2 .

The polymer of the invention also includes copolymers. For instance as shown in copolymer I 3 can be formed by reacting sulfonium monomer 3a with phenyl monomer 1a . Copolymers can include cyclic cation groups. For instance as shown in copolymer I 4 can be formed by reacting cyclic sulfonium monomer 3b with phenyl monomer 1a . The present invention encompasses modified versions of PPV based polymers which can be obtained by optimizing any of the polymers herein by including one or more substituents on the backbone or employing other onium cations e.g. any described herein .

The polymers of the invention also include those having different polymeric backbones. For instance siloxane based polymers and copolymers were synthesized having either sulfonium or ammonium cation groups. As shown in prior to switching the siloxane based polymer includes an onium group B that is attached to the backbone by a linker X. After switching the onium group B is released and the resultant linker X has a conjugated bond arising from the elimination of B. Specific non limiting examples of switched polymer having a resultant linker with a conjugated bond include polymers IV 1 and IV 3 .

Ammonium siloxane based copolymer II 3 was synthesized as provided in . In brief 3 chloropropylmethyldimethoxysilane 5a was reacted with an iodination agent e.g. NaI or Li to provide 3 iodopropylmethyldimethoxysilane 5b . This iodinated compound 5b was reacted with siloxane monomer 7a in the presence of a Nafion catalyst in water to form polymer 8a . Then polymer 8a was reacted with triethylamine in acetonitrile to form cationic copolymer II 3a . Subsequent oxidation with AgOprovided cationic copolymer II 3 having a hydroxide anion. As can be seen switching of polymer II 3 provides conjugated siloxane copolymer IV 3 .

Polymer versions including only one type of monomer can also be formed. For instance as provided in the iodinated monomer 5b can be polymerized to form polymer 6a which can be subsequently reacted with an onium precursor agent e.g. triethylamine methyloctylsulfide or any described herein to form cationic polymer II Ca e.g. where R is an onium cation such as a sulfonium ammonium diazonium halonium or phosphonium cation . After anion exchange the resultant cationic polymer II Cb was formed. As can be seen switching of polymer II Cb provides conjugated siloxane polymer IV 1 .

Siloxane based polymers II 1 and II 2 were characterized by X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS TGA and infrared spectroscopy. Table 1 shows the results of XPS analysis of these polymers which were heat treated for 30 minutes at 150 degrees and then analyzed for salt loss. Also provided are TGA analyses of the sulfonium polymer II 1 and the ammonium polymer II 2 . As can be seen additional siloxane based polymers having modified backbones or onium cations can be optimized and tested with the conditions and methods described herein.

After switching the coatings of the invention release one or more onium cations. The biotoxicity of one onium cation i.e. sulfonium cations was tested under various conditions. is the result of testing done in a CDC biofilm reactor with . Briefly the CDC Biofilm Reactor includes eight 8 polypropylene coupon holders suspended from a UHMW polyethylene ported lid. The coupon holders can accommodate three inch 12.7 mm diameter coupons each. The lid with coupon holders and coupons was mounted in a 1 liter glass vessel with side arm discharge port. Artificial sea water with bacteria was circulated through the vessel while mixing and shear force was generated by a magnetic stir bar vane rotated by a magnetic stir plate in an attempt to replicate a moving marine environment. Coated coupons were removed after a time period usually 48 to 72 hours and assayed for bacteria biofilm growth.

The toxicity and antibiofouling properties of various coatings were tested. Leachate testing was conducted to assess the toxicity effects of the coating. As seen in left leachate testing included incubating a coated surface in artificial sea water for about 24 hours extracting the resultant sea water and then introducing organisms into the sea water. The presence of organisms in solution or in a biofilm was determined using absorbance or fluorescence measurements.

Antibiofouling testing was conducted to assess the ability of the coating to resist biofilm formation. As seen in right antibiofouling testing included incubating a coated surface in artificial sea water having one or more microorganisms. After about 24 hours the presence of organisms in solution or in a biofilm was determined using absorbance or fluorescence measurements.

In particular PPV based polymer I 1 having sulfonium cations were tested with marine bacteria and microalgae . As can be seen polymer I 1 exhibited significant marine antibacterial properties when tested for in solution labeled Sulfonium in . However the same polymer was not as effective for in an established biofilm labeled Sulfonium in . Against the microalgae polymer I 1 exhibited significant marine antifungal properties .

Without wishing to be limited by mechanism polymer I 1 may have exhibited this behavior because this polymer is water soluble. Accordingly polymer I 1 can be modified to decrease its water solubility such as by increasing the crosslinking density of the polymer increasing the hydrophobicity of the polymer e.g. by increasing the alkane chain and or providing cyclic alkane groups in the sulfonium group by increasing hydrophobic substituents on the polymer backbone etc. The present invention encompasses such modified polymers.

We also assessed the fouling release and antibiofouling properties of a coating after switching. The tested coating included the conjugated PPV based polymer III 1 . For example this polymer III 1 arises after switching a coating having polymer I 1 or I 2 .

Algal cell adhesion testing was performed by incubating the microalgae on the test surface and then treating the incubated surface with a water jet at 10 psi or 20 psi. The percent removal of the microalgae was then determined. The PPV polymer provided a surface having enhanced properties. For instance more of the fouling was removed for the PPV surface as compared to commercially available coating Intersleek 700 and 900 compare data labeled PPV versus 700 and 900 .

The antibiofouling properties of PPV coated slides were tested against and . As can be seen PPV performed better than commercially available coatings T2 PU and 700 when tested with . For PPV performed comparably with all tested commercially available coatings. Accordingly the present invention encompasses a coating that after switching provides enhanced fouling release and or antifouling properties.

The toxicity and antibiofouling properties of a siloxane based polymer II 3 were tested. The conditions for leachate and antibiofouling testing were as described above in Example 5 and .

Siloxane based polymer II 3 was tested for its antibacterial properties with and its antimicroalgal properties with . As can be seen leachate testing of polymer II 3 performed comparably with commercially available coatings for both and . In addition leachate testing indicated no water solubility of the test polymer II 3 . This coating was also effective for established biofilms. For established bacterial biofilms with the coating was more effective than commercially available coatings T2 and PU . For established microalgal biofilms with the coating was as effective as commercially available coatings T2 and PU .

We also assessed the fouling release and antibiofouling properties of a siloxane based coating after switching. The tested coating included the conjugated siloxane based polymer IV 3 . For example this polymer IV 3 arises after switching a coating having polymer II 3 .

Bacterial and algal cell adhesion testing was performed by incubating the bacteria or microalgae on the test surface and then treating the incubated surface with a water jet at 10 psi or 20 psi. The percent removal of the bacteria or microalgae was then determined. The siloxane polymer provided a surface having enhanced properties. For instance more of the fouling was removed for the siloxane surface as compared to commercially available coating Intersleek 700 for both bacteria and microalgae.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

