---

title: Systems and methods for controlling the distribution and viewing of digital art and imaging via the internet
abstract: System and method for storing digital content for display on a display device, comprising at least one digital content item, configured to be displayed on the display device, and a service cloud comprising a secure storage system, configured to store digital content, a communication controller, configured to communicate with the display device, a provisioning engine, configured to control the provisioning of digital content on the display device, a service management system, configured to collect data reflecting operational status of the display device, a server, configured to interface with an application running on a computer with memory and processor for selection and control of digital content for display, an ingestion engine, configured to control importation of digital content, an external content gateway, configured to transfer digital content from outside the service cloud to the display device, and a live data feed gateway, configured to provide over-the-top content to the display devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602567&OS=09602567&RS=09602567
owner: Videri Inc.
number: 09602567
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 800 681 filed Mar. 15 2013 and 61 917 067 filed Dec. 17 2013 the disclosures and teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims priority to U.S. Design patent application Ser. No. 29 469 599 29 469 606 29 469 621 29 469 628 29 469 633 29 469 638 and 29 469 645 all of which were filed on Oct. 11 2013 the disclosures and teachings of which are also all incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for displaying digital art decorations posters visual lifestyle social media over the top MSO and other types of digital content on thin sleek display devices for use in a home office hotel gallery or any other public or private location. The invention also provides systems and methods for managing the display of such digital content including systems and methods for the distribution viewing and control thereof. The invention also includes systems and methods for preserving distributing and protecting content through a suite of innovative technologies and processes.

Art and photography is used to decorate the walls of homes and public places. Art comes in many styles and colors and tends to be created by painting drawing placing and or printing colors shapes and or designs on a medium such as glass canvas wood metal film and or paper. Unlike digital displays once an image is painted printed or created on a medium that image is fixed. Thus once installed on a wall of a home or public place the image cannot be changed unless it is repainted reprinted physically modified or moved in some way. To display a new piece of art in the same place the existing piece would need to be taken down with the new piece installed in its place. This is difficult when art is hung in large and possibly heavy frames making movement repositioning or replacement of the same impractical. Thus there is no means currently to change the pictures posters paintings and photographs on the wall like one can change the songs on their iPod or change the program on their TV.

Additionally there is no TV computer or mobile device or system for display which allows a user to easily manipulate and interact with art photography decorations posters applications social media visual lifestyle media over the top content MSO content and any other types of content onto an internet cloud ecosystem powered elegant thin framed display where the user can self adjust every element of the experience.

Televisions computer monitors and other digital display devices are adapted to present digital images which can include images of artwork photography and other images. However such devices are heavy cumbersome thick difficult to install hard to use and not flexible with regard to their orientation and interaction with digital content. Additionally they generally have fixed orientations include sound functions or capabilities lack a fine frame contain controls and buttons include power supplies have onboard processors and contain many additional features that prevent them from serving as thin displays that can present digital art or other visual and or audio content in an elegant unobtrusive and refined manner. Furthermore the televisions computer monitors and other digital display devices require direct connection to high voltage power making them difficult expensive and inflexible to use and install.

To the Applicants knowledge there is no integrated means to change the pictures posters paintings and photographs on the wall like one can change the songs on ones iPod and there is also no currently existing broad database of digital art images available for subscription on such an integrated platform. To the Applicants knowledge there is also no prior art system to provide a user the ability to easily manipulate and interact with art photography decorations posters applications social media visual lifestyle media over the top content MSO content and any other types of content onto an internet cloud ecosystem powered elegant thin framed display where the user can self adjust every element of the experience. There is therefore a need for a comprehensive digital content system and experience to deliver digital content for easy convenient and elegant consumption and display. There are also no current user interfaces in the art which allow a user to interact with and control the display of digital imagery on a remote display device for display of art photography decorations applications social media posters visual lifestyle over the top MSO and any other types of content.

The present invention comprises a system and method for storing digital content on a display device comprising a processing controller a memory and a display screen. The system and method comprise at least one digital content item configured to be displayed on the display screen of the one or more display devices a service cloud comprising a secure storage system configured to store and manage at least one digital content item a communication controller configured to communicate with one or more display devices configured to display said at least one digital content item a provisioning engine configured to control the provisioning of at least one digital content item on the one or more display devices a service management system configured to collect data reflecting the operational status and performance levels of the one or more display devices provisioned by the provisioning engine a server configured to interface via the internet with an application running on a computer with a memory and a processor for selection of at least one digital content item for display on the one or more display devices a digital media content ingestion engine configured to control importation of at least one digital content item an external content gateway configured to transfer an authorized digital content item from an origination point outside of the service cloud to the one or more display devices via the internet and a live data feed gateway configured to provide over the top content to the one or more display devices from one or more external sources outside of the service cloud.

In preferred embodiments of the invention methods and systems are provided for delivering digital art decorations posters visual lifestyle social media over the top MSO and other types of content to a thin elegant framed display. By creating an ecosystem of ground breaking devices enriched digital content a natural and intuitive user experience new social exchanges and innovative purchase options the present invention is adapted to fundamentally change the experience and enjoyment of art posters paintings photographs video and apps and provide a new manifestation of how digital content is enjoyed.

In preferred embodiments the invention includes a display device for artwork or the like including a lightweight digital display with a thin and sleek design an application APP which is a program that enables management of digital content displayed on the Display Devices of the present invention and an associated Internet Service Cloud which provides access to digital content displayable on these Display Devices.

Display devices disclosed by the present invention preferably range in size from hand held to potentially over 60 displays. Preferably the characteristics of a display device include an ultra thin preferably less than 13 mm minimalistic design with a nearly invisible front bezel and border an external power supply ultra thin or small diameter wiring between external power supply and display assembly a built in display processor with wireless connection to the Internet Service Cloud an optional external decorative frame attaching to the device to replicate the aesthetics of a traditional painting optional digital frames and or digital matting rendered by a graphics engine embedded in the system of the present invention and audio over WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC or iBeacon which allows the device to stream audio to an external audio system. Preferably embodiments of the Display Device of the present invention comprise no embedded user interface so that all controls occur through a connection to the App and or the Internet Service Cloud. Additionally embodiments of the Display Device of the present invention preferably comprises an external detachable structure to facilitate shipping handling and installation of the device and a mounting and installation system allowing vertical or horizontal installation of the unit and leaving preferably a less than 2 mm gap between the mounting surface and display unit which also preferably has the ability to alter its orientation automatically depending on the characteristics of the displayed content.

The App is a highly intuitive native software application for a mobile platform such as IOS Android Windows and others which preferably manages and controls all aspects of the display devices and allows users to access resources on the Internet Service Cloud. The Internet Service Cloud provides a digital media content ingestion engine and management system to validate normalize adapt protect and manage rights and to enforce standards for unique digital content including still images motion images interactive images app images and user private content all of which is adapted to be displayed on the display devices disclosed by the present invention.

Description will now be given of the invention with reference to the attached . Other and further features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following descriptions of the various embodiments when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the following embodiments are provided for illustrative and exemplary purposes only and that numerous combinations of the elements of the various embodiments of the present invention are possible. Preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings and in which like reference numerals refer to similar elements.

An Environment such as the home environment depicted in may include one or several Display Devices and . For ease of reference only a single Display Device will be referred to throughout though in every environment and embodiment of the present invention the use of multiple Display Devices is envisioned. Each Display Device is preferably in wireless communication with Client Control and is configured to display the same or different digital content as other Display Devices in the Environment . Each Display Device in the Environment may be mounted on a wall in either a vertical or horizontal configuration. Additionally as will be described in detail later the orientation of each Display Device is adapted to change whether manually or automatically through input from the App on the Client Control depending on the characteristics of the digital content displayed on the Display Device.

The devices disclosed by the present invention can ideally be installed in any environment such as a home office vehicle or public venue connected to the Internet and linked to an on line account managed through the Client Application and the Service Cloud . Users have the ability to purchase or subscribe to digital art decorations posters visual lifestyle social media over the top delivery of video content without an MSO being involved i.e. Netflix Hulu etc. multiple system operator MSO and other types of content as well as specially designed apps to interact with media content displayed on the Display Devices or subscribe to external apps that make content reactive to external stimuli. While the Display Devices and App of the present invention are designed for the control and display of numerous categories of digital content including digital art decorations posters visual lifestyle social media over the top MSO and other types of content for ease of description the digital content will hereinafter be collectively referred to as digital visual content. This in no way limits the scope of the content available and applicable for the present invention.

A preferred element of the present invention is a portfolio of aesthetically designed Display Devices and an overall Display System . It is an object of these devices to render digital art as well as dynamic data driven visuals and graphics with or without audio in the most compelling way possible to enhance the ambiance of homes offices and public areas and create new ways to consume visual and or audio content and data of all types. The present invention thereby creates a new digital display product category which is distinct from existing TV flat displays computer monitors and digital frames by virtue of its unique form factor and holistic user experience unique wall mounting design installation and procedure and optimized performance for display of a broad range of digital media types extending beyond traditional TV entertainment programming to include all forms of digital content including digital art.

The Display Device uses a different architecture than traditional flat TV or computer monitor devices. All heavy and bulky electronics components including power and audio subsystems are removed from the Display Device itself and its Display Assembly and replaced with external components or packaged in one or more lightweight circuit boards to make the actual Display Assembly lighter thinner and easier to handle and to install. In place of an audio sub system the Display Device uses digital wireless audio streaming to a compatible external third party audio system. Embodiments of the present invention incorporate a powerful processor to manage sophisticated functions such as content self healing or auto color calibration to ensure a consistent viewing experience across all devices. Embodiments of the present invention system preferably incorporate WiFi wireless capabilities to connect to local peripheral devices or the Service Cloud through the Internet. WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC and iBeacon connectivity can also be used to fully integrate into a connected home environment where a Display Device can become an intelligent node capable of controlling or reacting to other remotely connected devices such as motion or proximity sensors home controller or other Display Devices. The underlying design of the Display Device is modular to minimize re design efforts when new technologies or display sizes are introduced.

As can be seen in embodiments of the present invention device preferably comprise several components a Display Assembly a Wall Mount a Connection Cord a Power Brick an Exoskeleton and an Installation Template and Tools and other optional components such as a Decorative Frame or an Auto Rotation Accessory . More detail about each component of the present invention follows.

The Display Assembly comprises a Display Device which is designed as a bare display system without any user interface or audio. It preferably incorporates an invisible linear touch interface located on side of the device and a pin hole reset button that is recessed in the frame. It preferably receives power from the Power Brick through the Connection Cord and can be attached to a vertical surface with the Wall Mount Bracket . The Exoskeleton protects the Display Device during shipping and handling and facilitates installation. The Display Devices preferably use a display surface with a rectangular aspect ratio and diagonal sizes preferably ranging from 20 to 60 . Customized Display Devices in sizes larger than 60 or non rectangular shapes are also envisioned.

The Display Device is preferably designed in a modular way to adapt to various display technologies A including plasma LCD with edge LED Backlighting or OLED. Graphene display technologies are also envisioned. These display technologies are preferably selected to handle FullHD 1080p UHD and 4K 8K or higher display resolutions at up to 480 or more frames per second and preferably deliver the lightest and thinnest display assembly and meet target production cost while providing a uniform brightness in excess of 450NITS and the sharpest contrast and deepest black possible. The Display Device preferably also incorporates a brightness sensor B to automatically adjust brightness contrast and color saturation to most lighting conditions and a white and black auto calibration mechanism to ensure a consistent viewing experience across all displays and most viewing conditions.

The preferred embodiment of the Display Device of the present invention preferably has a very thin front bezel that is nearly invisible to enhance the overall aesthetic of the Display Assembly and maximize display surface. The effective border of the display i.e. the distance from edge of active display area to the outside edge of the bezel is preferably less than 15 mm. The Display Assembly is secured to the rear side of the Display Device and is adapted to secure to a Wall Mount Bracket for hanging of the same. The Display Assembly may also incorporate an attachment mechanism C allowing the Display Device to attach to a physical Decorative Frame . The rear face of the Display Assembly can be partially open to further reduce weight and facilitate heat dissipation and incorporates a recessed mounting mechanism for easy attachment to the Wall Mount Bracket and connection to the Connection Cord . Unlike standard display devices such as TVs and Monitors the Display Device can easily be attached to a near vertical surface either with the Wall Mount Bracket a free rotation accessory or the Auto Rotation Accessory . Hence its mechanical structure preferably provides the bare minimum structural rigidity required to maintain the Display Device on a vertical surface while reducing the overall weight as much as possible.

The Wall Mount Bracket is a unique mechanical assembly that preferably maintains the Display Device on a vertical mounting surface made preferably of standard construction materials including drywall painted wood metal cement brick or cinder blocks preferably with a gap less than 2 mm between the mounting surface and the back of the Display Assembly . The structure of Wall Mount Bracket preferably allows a device mounted in a horizontal or vertical orientation to change from one orientation to another without having to reinstall or modify the Wall Mount Bracket . The Wall Mount Bracket is also designed to act as an intermediary between the Connector Cord and the Display Device through use of thin power connectors that close the power circuit when the Display Assembly is installed in the Wall Mount Bracket. Thin silicon pads are preferably installed at the corners of the Display Assembly to create a slight friction against the mounting surface to maintain the display orientation and prevent the Display Assembly from moving unintentionally. Contrary to standard flat TV wall installation procedures that require screwing a potentially large heavy visually unappealing mounting surface or equivalent structure into a wall the installation of a Display Device preferably does not require many if any tools does not create any permanent damage to a wall and can preferably be accomplished in less than 10 minutes by a single average person using the adhesive tape.

The top end of the bracket is shaped as a wide U to make room for the mating connector that delivers power to a corresponding connector embedded in the back cover of Display Assembly . The bracket mating connector has a wider opening to facilitate alignment of the connector during the installation process and provide some rotation freedom for level adjustments. An outward wing is located on each side of the U shape to guide the mating connection of recessed part of the back cover of the Display Assembly into the right position in case the mounting surface is slightly depressed relative to the surrounding surface. This mating process can be seen in . Finally two silicon pads are preferably located in the lower part of the bracket to prevent vibration of the Display Assembly by applying a slight pressure to the back cover of the Display Assembly .

In one embodiment of the present invention the Auto Rotation Accessory can be an independent structure which replaces Wall Mount Bracket . In another embodiment Auto Rotation Accessory can be a component which attaches to Wall Mount Bracket already secured to a vertical wall. The Auto Rotation Accessory preferably allows free rotation of full 90 from vertical to horizontal and vice versa so that a Display Device may be viewed horizontally or vertically. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the Auto Rotation Accessory also comprises a micro controller connected to the iC DPC of the Display Assembly for precise calibration alignment and control through VSC . This preferably enables the Auto Rotation Accessory to automatically shift 90 in direction from vertical to horizontal portrait to landscape configuration or vice versa depending on the image to be displayed on the Display Device . That is the Auto Rotation Accessory is preferably configured to rotate a Display Device based on the desired viewing content. Through the process of mounting the Wall Mount Bracket to the wall to ensure perfect alignment of one side of Display Device with the floor ceiling or door or window frame. Thus the Auto Rotation Accessory is preferably adapted to rotate a Display Device a perfect 90 to ensure that the Display Device is always perfectly aligned. The Auto Rotation Accessory preferably incorporates a micro controller for precise calibration alignment and control through VSC .

The Connection Cord is a wiring system that carries power from the Power Brick to the Display Device . The Connection Cord allows for installation of the Power Brick at a distance preferably up to 10 meters from the vertical axis of the Wall Mount Bracket . All types of Connection Cords share a common connector preferably providing an easy to use yet robust connection to the Wall Mount Bracket and the Power Brick . The Connector Cord preferably meets safety regulations for transport of preferably less than 30V DC power at less than 6 A over a distance of 100 m securely connects to the Wall Mount Bracket and preferably allows for less than 2 mm gap between the mounting surface and the back of the Display Device . Further the Connector Cord is preferably assembled with the Wall Mount Bracket with one degree of freedom away from the wall and towards a user to allow for some flexibility when the Display Device is mated with the Connection Cord . The actual visible part of the wire preferably enhances the iconic look of the device while addressing practical installation requirements.

A first type of Connector Cord is a thin minimally visible wire that lies flat against the mounting surface to minimize visible cross section. It is preferably made of two conductors protected by silicon insulation of various colors. A second type of Connector Cord is wide and flat wire that can be secured to a wall and disappear under a coat of paint. Once installed the wire can be maintained in place with a cleat that is either attached to the wall with pre installed sticking tape or simply that maintains vertical alignment by gravity. The cleat preferably has a solid grip on the wire without damaging it and provides a clean pivot to turn the wire from vertical orientation from the Wall Mount Bracket to horizontal orientation to the Power Brick while maintaining a straight line along both axes. Alternately this thin wire can be installed in a shallow groove on the mounting surface and covered with plaster and painted over to make it completely invisible. A second type of Connector Cord is a thin flat cable that is glued or taped to the mounting surface and can be painted over to camouflage the same on a wall. This wire can be folded to a right angle at the base of the mounting surface to connect to a Power Brick that is anchored to the mounting surface at the base of the wall. A third type of Connector Cord preferably runs in the wall from the Wall Mount Bracket to an exit cleat that connects to a thin wire connected to the Power Brick .

The Power Brick provides DC power to the Display Device through the Wall Mount Bracket and the Connector Cord . The Power Brick preferably comprises a power supply a power cord a status indicator and an enclosure. The power supply transforms sector AC power into DC power that is required to run the Display Device . The power supply is rated to provide up to 30V at 6 A. The power cord connects the power support to a regular residential or commercial power outlet through a replaceable connector that can be adapted to local power outlet regulation. The status indicator is a simple LED that provides power ON OFF status. The enclosure preferably contributes to the iconic signature of embodiments of the present invention and facilitates installation in multiple positions including flat on the ground leaned against a wall or baseboard or anchored to a wall.

Alternatively to the Wall Mount Bracket and Rotation Accessories a Display Device could be installed using a display stand as shown in . The stand is designed to attach to the side of the Display Device to hold it straight up on top of a horizontal surface. This optional stand is preferably available in different heights to accommodate the short or long edge of the different sizes of Display Devices . The stand is designed to let the Display Device sit directly on the horizontal surface and to mate flush with the edge of a Display Device with approximately the same thickness as the display assembly. The stand can be attached to the Display Device with either adhesive tape or screws and can hold the Display Device in a horizontal or vertical landscape or portrait configuration. The design of the stand preferably includes a separate power adapter that can be mated with the power connectors of the Display Device to complete the power circuit. The connection cord of this power adapter can be routed at the base of the display and attached to the base of the stand. In an alternate design a power connector is added to the side frame of the Display Device with a corresponding connector built into the stand and power wire running in the stand coming out at the base. The stand is preferably made of brushed aluminum but can also be made of other materials such as other metals acrylic or wood. The display stand is configured to hold a Display Device in either a vertical or horizontal configuration and a single display stand is configured to hold a Display Device in both configurations depending on the user s desire for configuration of the Display Device .

As another alternative to the Wall Mount Bracket Rotation Accessories or the stand a Display Device could be displayed free standing i.e. not secured to a vertical surface or a stand using a back plate accessory as shown in . The back plate accessory is designed to re enforce the structural rigidity of the Display Device for leaning the Display Device against a wall use the Display Device in a free standing situation where the Wall Mount bracket or rotation device is not used or use with a standard VESA wall mount. The back plate is designed to mate with the Display Device using its recessed back cover attachment mechanism and lock in place. Pads are preferably used to create a slight pressure between the back cover of the Display Device and the back plate to prevent any rattle or vibration in any potential free space between the back cover and the back plate . It incorporates power connectors to mate with the corresponding power connectors of the Display Device as well as a connection interface with the Connection Cord . The back plate preferably covers the entire area of and marries flush with the back cover of the Display Device . Its attachment to the Display Device is designed to maximize heat transfer to further increase distribution and dissipation of the heat generated by the active components of the Display Device . The back plate is configured to hold a Display Device in either a vertical or horizontal configuration and a single back plate is configured to hold a Display Device in both configurations depending on the user s desire for configuration of the Display Device .

The preferred Display Assembly of the present invention no matter the size preferably has a maximum and uniform thickness depth of 13 mm across the entire surface of the display assembly including its edges. This ultra thin form factor is obtained through one or more of 1 minimizing of the mechanical structure 2 design of electronics components to create ultra thin profile electronics modules 3 minimizing of the optical stack sub assembly 4 design of an ultra thin power connector and 5 design of the back lighting sub assembly. The mechanical structure of the Display Assembly reduces weight and thickness to a minimum by allowing for greater bend and torsion of the Display Assembly when it is not mated to its exoskeleton secured to Wall Mount Bracket mated to the stand or mated with the back plate . The design preferably uses a thin aluminum frame and rear cover that work jointly with other components to create the minimum structural strength required to allow the Display Assembly to remain in a flat plane when securely attached to its Wall Mount Bracket .

The electronics sub assembly generally referred to as the Display Processing Controller iC DPC is designed preferably to a maximum of 4.5 mm in profile height and located on the edge of the display to facilitate heat management and placement of the recessed Wall Mount Bracket receiving end in the middle of the back cover . The thickness of the optical stack sub assembly made of the TFT glass panel filters and films diffuser light guide plane and reflector was reduced by minimizing the air gap between the layers and thickness of the light guide plane. The reduction of air gap thickness was compensated with improved passive airflow. An ultra thin power connector preferably allows the Display Assembly to mate with the power source attached to the Wall Mount Bracket . The shape of each connector is such that it allows for rotation freedom of approximately 5 degrees without losing power connection. A single or dual edge backlighting solution with high efficiency LED arrays is preferably used to match the reduced thickness of the light guide plane while delivering a uniform brightness in excess of 450 NITS across the entire active display surface. Edge LED arrays are preferably mounted on L shape brackets to simplify the mechanical design and facilitate assembly increase heat distribution and contribute to the overall structural rigidity of the Display Assembly . Finally the Display Assembly is mostly assembled using high strength adhesive tape to facilitate mechanical assembly and further reduce thickness and weight.

The Display Assembly preferably incorporates a touch strip D on one or more sides of the display. These touch strips D preferably blend with the material of frame to make them invisible and they are touch sensitive to allow for linear analog control of various functions of the device. By moving a finger along the touch sensitive strip or tapping a user can adjust display parameters or interact with Interactive or App Images.

As depicted in the Display Device preferably incorporates a powerful dedicated processing module and electronics sub system called Display Processing Controller iC DPC assembly which is configured to control the display of images on the Display Device through a processor connected to the display screen of the Display Device . The iC DPC assembly preferably comprises three main components a Display Processor a Time Controller T CON and a Power Distribution and Adaptation module . The iC DPC assembly controls all functions of the present invention and communicates with the Service Cloud . The main component of the iC DPC Display Processor is preferably based on a multi core high clock speed ARM Cortex A9 architecture that incorporates a crypto core hardware video decoder and a fast I O sub system. The crypto core is used to encrypt media content files for onboard storage and real time de encryption when needed. The iC DPC Display Processor is preferably configured with a minimum of 1 GB of DDR3 or other types of fast random access memory that can be increased to 64 GB and two or more SD RAM slots for a minimum onboard storage of 8 GB. The iC DPC Display Processor also preferably includes a number of standard Ethernet USB and I O ports an onboard orientation sensor to detect horizontal or vertical orientation and WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC and iBeacon wireless interfaces and connectors that can be populated to achieve various I O configurations. The design of the iC DPC Display Processor preferably ensures that the entire decoded video path is physically and mechanically protected. Specifically the length of the traces is kept to preferably less than 1 mm and a cover is glued on top of LVDS connectors to prevent probing the raw video signal driving the TFT panel. The entire iC DPC Display Processor module preferably achieves the lowest profile possible by selecting low profile components starting with the main processor which is preferably less than 2 mm using a variable layers PCB design and placing all components on the same side of the PCB including fast random access memory modules e.g. DDR3 . T CON preferably receives Low Voltage Differential Signal LVDS video signal and power over one or two flat ribbons from the iC DPC Display Processor depending of frame rate. It connects the LVDS to the TTL electronics and drives the TFT panel over a native interface to an electronic module commonly called Source PCB. 

As can be seen in the Display Assembly is preferably made of a front frame a TFT panel a series of optical films and filters polarizing filters and image and color enhancers held in place with a Guide Panel the backlighting subsystem the back cover and the iC DPC assembly contained in the iC DPC module cover . The front frame is designed to provide minimum front bezel width to cover the inactive area at the edge of the glass and contribute to overall structural rigidity. The optical films and filters are made of thin polarizing filters image and color enhancers and diffuser plane that are layered to enhance brightness contrast color and image resolution and ensure maximum uniformity of image and motion quality. The backlighting unit is preferably made of a single or dual edge array of LEDs and a heat sink a specially designed light guide plane of preferably less than 3 mm to match the actual size of the LEDs and a back reflector . The brightness of the LEDs is controlled by the LED driver part of the power sub system which is in turn controlled by the iC DPC Display Controller . The light emitted by the LEDs propagates through the Light Guide Plane . The iC DPC assembly is pre assembled in the iC DPC module cover that snaps in the back cover to complete the assembly. The iC DPC module cover and the iC DPC electronics assembly are designed to be used with all Display Assembly sizes to facilitate assembly and reduce production complexity and costs.

The Power sub system preferably includes three main active components 1 Power Brick 2 Power Adaptation and Distribution Module and 3 LED Driver . The Power Brick is a universal power supply rated for 150 W to support Display Device sizes up to 60 with an efficiency rating of 85 and safety margin of 15 . It accepts standard residential AC ranging from 110V to 220V at 50 Hz to 60 Hz and feeds 24 VDC at up to 6 A to the Power Adaptation and Distribution Module located in the Display Assembly through the Connection Cord . Although several types of Connection Cord are envisioned the preferred wire is made of a very thin 2.2 mm and flexible 20 AWG copper two conductor flexible wire covered with silicon material. This Connection Cord is very malleable and does not retain any deformation to ensure near perfect vertical alignment when properly installed. The Power Adaptation and Distribution Module uses a series of DC DC step down elements to provide 5 VDC and 12 VDC rails to the iC DPC Display Processor and a 24 VDC rail to the LED Driver module . The Display Processor sends 12 VDC to the Time Controller T CON and TFT IC Driver modules. The Power Adaptation and Distribution Module preferably uses electronics components that offer the lowest z axis thickness of profile possible and still offer proper critical de rating to ensure product quality and longevity. Capacitors are selected for de rated voltage inductors diodes and FETs are de rated for current and preferable values preferably depend of the size of the display and design of backlighting.

The Display Device is preferably capable of presenting one or more of four different types of images 1 Still Images which are digital images that do not change over time a single still picture image may be displayed on one or several separate and coordinated devices to create a desired artistic effect 2 Motion Images which are digital motion video at various frame rates and various length which can be looped a single motion picture item may be displayed on one or several separate coordinated devices to create a desired artistic effect 3 Interactive Images which are digital images that have interaction between still or motion images displayed on the Display Devices and the mobile apps running on the Client Control to create changes in the image displayed on the Display Device reveal information through the mobile App when the camera of the Client Control device overlays the App display with the Display Device and or trigger changes in the images or information displayed on the mobile app and 4 App Images which are real time graphics renderings i.e. not pre rendered video of visual scenes with or without audio or live data sets or objects driven by a software app and hosted on the Display Device of the present invention that may react to external data sources or user input.

App Images are images and sounds that are produced by an Application running in the Display Processor of the Display Device and controlled by an extension to the Client Control user interface that is specific to the functionality of that App. App Images can also stream audio only content with no visual and or audio content. The App can be previewed and purchased from an App Store using the Client Control user interface and it can be installed on the Display Processor of the Display Device by dragging the iconic representation of the App on the Client Control user interface to the graphics representation of the selected Display Device on the user interface. Once selected from an app catalog the actual download and installation of the App on the selected Display processor is preferably fully automated without any other action from the user. App Images are secured and managed like other types of Images i.e. downloaded to a Display Device when requested secured and prioritized in onboard memory based on viewing profile. App Images can also be locked in the Display Processor memory during production process or when a user acquires the App Image to create a specialized Display Device that can execute a limited number of Apps e.g. digital signage or video playback . App Images can be driven by an internal data source i.e. time or by an external real time data feed or audio video stream or combination of more than one type of data source. Examples of data feed include standard RSS feed weather stock market etc. as well as social data feeds Twitter etc. or custom or proprietary data feeds telemetry game data etc. Apps may or may not offer corresponding user interface controls and indicators on the Client Control .

In addition to these four types of Images the iC DPC Display Processor allows for composite Images where different types of Images Still Motion Interactive or App are combined into a single display. The layout and composition can be static or change over time whether through preprogramming control from external data source or manual controlled. iC DPC Display Processor also preferably provides layout management using graphics rendering capability. Layout management allows juxtaposition of several images in one or more predetermined layouts that are adapted to change over time either in a pre defined way or driven by an external source. Using a number of pre defined layout templates the iC DPC Display Processor can display a plurality of images simultaneously preferably up to 12 different images comprising a combination of Still Motion Interactive or App Images on a single Display Device . Layout templates define number and location of each active area i.e. an area where an Image is displayed as well as background and border attributes. A user can select a layout template or allow the iC DPC Display Processor to manage the same automatically.

One specific type of layout is illustrated in showing a Display Device in vertical Portrait orientation to display three 16 9 images and vertically one on top of the other. In the example shown in three images of 1080 pixels horizontally by 608 pixels vertically are displayed simultaneously leaving a total of 96 pixel rows for borders and other graphics elements rendered by the Display Processor . Each of these 16 9 areas can display any type of Images Still Motion Interactive or App Images . A user can select this pre defined layout using the Client Control user interface and assign content to each area independently. Each image in each area is also controlled independently of the others using a specific extension of the user interface. For example the top area can display a live video feed of a sporting event while the center area can display a scoreboard feed of the same event and the lower area can display live Twitter feed of the same event. The user may decide to move the sport event top area to the center area and select a different sport event to be displayed in the top area . Finally playlists define a sequence of Images including composite Images that will be displayed sequentially either along a fixed timeline or under manual user input control or reacting to external triggers from the Service Cloud . These images can combine to cover all or substantially all of the display area of Display Device while each maintaining their 16 9 aspect ratio and not compromising the image quality. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention three separate digital content images can be displayed on a Display Device which is positioned in a vertical portrait configuration so that the three digital content items when stacked vertically cover approximately 95 of the display screen viewing area 

iC DPC Display Processor can use its graphics rendering capabilities to create a digital frame and or digital mat around a piece of digital content. is a depiction of the Digital Frame and Digital Mat generated by the iC DPC Display Processor . A Digital Frame is a 3D shaded graphics rendition of a traditional painting or poster frame that is digitally rendered by the iC DPC Display Processor graphics engine. A Digital Mat is a 3D shaded graphics rendition of a traditional painting or poster mat that is digitally rendered by the iC DPC Display Processor graphics engine. A Provisioning Engine of the present invention preferably automatically adjusts the dimensions and 3D shaded attributes of the Digital Frames and Digital Mats to adapt to the displayed digital media content item and the size and orientation of the Display Device and enforce guidelines defined by the artist and curators.

The Digital Frames and Digital Mats can be combined and multiple mats can be layered to create various depth shadowing and perspective effects rendered by the graphics engine of the present invention. As an alternative to a physical Decorative Frames seen in Digital Frames and or Digital Mats may be included around any digital content displayed on embodiments of the Display Device of the present invention. These features can be selected from a library of pre defined styles varying based on texture pattern color or in other ways . This library is presented in the form of a digital framing store with a wide selection of pre defined frames and mats and a rule engine part of the Provisioning Engine to recommend the best combination of the same to match a specific visual and or audio digital content item based on the nature attributes and composition of each visual and or audio content item. The content Provisioning Engine of the present invention also allows a curator to recommend or limit selection of Digital Frames and Digital Mats for a given visual and or audio digital content item.

Additionally the Provisioning Engine optimizes the visualization of digital content to be displayed in the Display Device of the present invention. Specifically if the aspect ratio of a content item to be displayed such as a painting does not correspond to the display area of a Display Device the Provisioning Engine will preferably automatically detect this situation and provide a Digital Frame and or Digital Mat for the image to maximize the display viewing area of the Display Device without hindering the quality of the image displayed thereon. A Digital Frame and or Digital Mat can be selected from the content library or if none exists from the Internet to match the digital image to be displayed.

As seen in an optional external Decorative Frame similar to the physical frames that surround traditional paintings or posters can be added to device to enhance the minimalistic design of the Display Device . The optional Decorative Frame allows a Display Device to be mounted in a traditional physical frame and installed on a wall using a traditional anchoring mechanism . The Display Device can be locked in place inside the Decorative Frame using a friction mechanism built into the frame of the Display Device . A Framing Kit is also available to allow traditional frame makers to build a frame where a display assembly will lock perfectly in place and allow for air flow required for cooling Display Device s active electronics components. For the installation of Display Device using a Decorative Frame the Connection Cord is preferably connected to the Display Device using a direct connection adaptor included in the Framing Kit before mounting on the wall and then connected to the Power Brick . The Wall Mount Bracket or Auto Rotation Accessories are preferably not used with Decorative Frames instead a traditional frame mounting mechanism hook and wire nail and bracket etc. may be used to attach the Decorative Frame including the Display Device to the mounting surface.

iC DPC Display Processor is configured to automatically manage its onboard storage to keep the most current or frequently viewed images in storage within the Service Cloud . This allows older or less viewed Images Still Motion Interactive or App Images to be replaced with newer content removed Images can be automatically reloaded when viewing is requested by user. This onboard image management process is configured to be automatically performed continuously without any intervention from a user. However a user preferably has the ability to lock an image in the memory of the Display Processor to prevent it from being dislodged to the Service Cloud by a more recent or viewed Image.

The iC DPC generates Still or Motion Images by decoding digital media content from local onboard storage progressive download or direct streaming. It also provides audio functionality by extracting encoded audio from the digital media content and generating a real time audio stream that is compatible with third party external audio rendering systems and transmitted over the WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC or iBeacon wireless interface. iC DPC also incorporates the V Sound Engine which modifies the decoded source audio stream to adapt to the external audio system by modulating audio frequencies or audio range or generating surround sounds channels. The V Sound Engine also allows for adjusting a video compensate for lag introduced by the wireless communication interface transmission and external audio system internal processing. In order to obtain the optimum audio and video synchronization the Display Processor has a calibration application which allows a user to visually adjust the video delay to perfectly synchronize with the audio signal using a visual pattern.

The iC DPC Display Processor includes a secured lock down processor with a secure booth loader a signed Android OS running on a secured partition and security key registers all features of a security sub system of a Freescale iMX6 processor preferably used that are preferably not exposed in clear outside of a trusted application space. All software applications are preferably signed and authenticated before being installed. In addition the iC DPC Display Processor mechanical design ensures that the entire decoded video path is protected. Also as a design and safety feature of the present invention all removable storage and memory modules are preferably glued to their receptacle socket if not soldered to the electronics module to prevent unauthorized removal without irremediable destruction of the electronics module.

The iC DPC Display Processor preferably uses a Virtual Environment Abstraction Layer VEAL Adapter to allow an App Image connected to one or more external public or private Service Clouds and to execute securely within iC DPC Display Processor . The VEAL adapter is preferably wrapped around the App to deliver all required resources including Access Control Management and Control Content Delivery and Security. It allows the App to communicate securely with its external Service Cloud or through its corresponding Virtual Environment hosted within the Service Cloud .

The iC DPC Display Processor S is configured to allow for secure remote OS update and application update down to the file level using a signature authentication mechanism. In the case where an OS update is broken or current OS gets corrupted the iC DPC Display Processor has the capability to automatically fall back to a previous safe OS version that is stored securely on the iC DPC Display Processor . Using this mechanism a Service Cloud operator is able to force fall back or remotely install and configure a new OS version with information securely stored on the iC DPC .

There are preferably two mechanisms disclosed by embodiments of the present invention to protect content stored by the components of the present invention the first can preferably be used for most content types and the second is a security model that offers additional protection for higher value content. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention these two mechanisms are mutually exclusive but complementary processes though it is envisioned in an alternate embodiment of the present invention that they could be combined. For digital content which are not of high value the first security mechanism shown in can be utilized which segments a digital media item into a plurality of segments before storing the same onboard the iC DPC and sends only a small percentage of the segments called a pre formatted file to the V Secure Content Service VCSC of the VSC for storage. The second security mechanism shown in and described in detail later can be used for securing higher value digital content items where content is instantly dissected on the Service Cloud into particles which can then be further cut into slices which can individually be encrypted using a Cypher Key and separately stored.

Embodiments of the present invention preferably incorporate an anti tampering mechanism that triggers immediate zero removal of all encryption and segmenting keys and digital media content if an attempt to physically access the iC DPC Display Processor module is detected. The anti tampering mechanism is a mechanical switch that is preferably embedded in the iC DPC Module Cover . As soon as an attempt is made to separate the cover from the Display Processor the anti tampering mechanism is preferably configured to send a signal to the iC DPC Display Processor to initiate a zero removal procedure. The iC DPC Display Processor incorporates a battery to ensure that the switch and processor have enough power to detect and execute this procedure in case power is disconnected from Display Device. A zero removal procedure has the highest execution priority and can t be interrupted once initiated. It preferably starts by erasing all registers and keys replacing with zeros and then continues by erasing stored Image file indexing and then stored Image files and finally the application software and operating system until it runs out of power.

As for any storage system digital content integrity may be impacted by digital rotting or data corruption over time. To protect against such degradation which affects the quality of images displayed the iC DPC Display Processor incorporates software to continuously monitor the data integrity of stored content for data integrity and requests downloads of parts or complete items if it detects digital rotting or data corruption. This process takes place in the background ideally guarantees all aspects of stored content protection and does not impact the viewing of digital content on the Display Device .

Embodiments of the present invention preferably integrate the Display Device seamlessly into a connected home network and can be configured to become either a master slave or peer node. Through its wireless connectivity interfaces iC DPC Display Processor can receive commands or send commands from other connected devices or appliances or other Display Devices . Among other types of devices a Display Device can be integrated with proximity and location sensors thus enabling it to become aware of its environment and react accordingly. For example it may be able to detect the presence of a warm body or a motion and adjust its displayed Images accordingly alternatively it may detect the proximity of another smart device and trigger an action in the remote device or coordinate an action between itself and the remote device. Multiple Display Devices can communicate with one another within wireless proximity and relay hop messages e.g. motion detected commands or images back and forth to coordinate actions.

The iC DPC Display Processor preferably incorporates standard IEEE 802.11 WiFi capability. Once the device is connected to the cloud all control command and reporting dialogs are preferably exclusively routed through the cloud using secure IP protocol over the WiFi communication link through a local wireless access point thus enforcing a strong security framework and preventing unauthorized access to its resources. The WiFi interface can operate in master infrastructure or slave peer modes depending on the initialization status of the Display Device .

Other wireless communication standards such as Bluetooth 802.15.1 Near Field Communication including ISO IEC 18092 and iBeacon may also be used to communicate with remote devices. Local peripheral devices such as audio rendering system or sensors can communicate with a Display Device over WiFi or other wireless communication interfaces to establish a direct link with an authorized mobile Client Control device hosting the Client App . The iC DPC may also incorporate a USB port to allow external devices such as external sensors to connect and transfer data to from the iC DPC Display Processor .

A 3G IMT 2000 and 4G LTE and 4G WiMax IEEE 802.16 cellular wireless interface can also be enabled to allow the iC DPC Display Processor to communicate with the Service Cloud through a local cellular data service operator network.

As can be seen in the Exoskeleton is a protective shell that is attached to the front side comprising the display screen of a Display Device which is preferably formed of glass. The Exoskeleton preferably provides ease of manipulation handling and installation of the Display Device makes the installation process more accurate protects the Display Device during shipping and handling and allows for dramatic reduction of the Display Assembly internal structure thus enabling a much thinner and lightweight design. Preferably the Exoskeleton is configured to couple to the Display Device to protect it on all sides except for the rear surface of the Display Assembly which connects to a Wall Mount Bracket and is adapted to quickly and easily decouple from the Display Device once it is in place on a wall. The Exoskeleton is designed to prevent excessive bending and twisting of a Display Device and provides holding points e.g. handles to facilitate removal from the shipping packaging and attachment to the Wall Mount Bracket or Auto Rotation Accessory .

The three main components of the Exoskeleton include 1 handles to grab and manipulate the Display Assembly 2 locking mechanism to securely attach the Exoskeleton to the Display Assembly without risk that the Display Device will fall and shatter and 3 Body that provides the required structural rigidity while remaining light and easy to handle. The locking mechanism is preferably made of a plastic material part that pivots behind the Display Assembly to securely and firmly attach the Display Assembly to the Exoskeleton .

The Display Device mated to its Exoskeleton is preferably delivered new in packaging that protects the device during shipping and handling facilitates installation of the device includes installation tools to install the device and delivers a unique and rewarding out of the box experience. The entire packaging and installation procedure is ideally completed in less than 20 minutes by consumers with no specific home renovation or construction or mechanical skills once the location of the device is determined. Immediately upon opening the shipping packaging a printed protective layer providing a preview of the device is preferably visible. The back of this protective layer also serves as an installation template.

The installation procedure may begin without any components other than the Client App loaded on a Client Control device such as tablet T or other mobile device. Using the App a user can visualize what the wall and the room will look like once the device is installed. Using the camera of the Client Control device the App preferably recognizes the printed pattern and can overlay a synthetic representation of a Display Device on top of the picture captured by the camera in real time to simulate the desired placement of the Display Device . Once locked on the pattern the camera can be moved around the room and the representation overlay is configured to maintain the right position and orientation of the simulated Display Device with reference to the wall using the mobile device s built in accelerometer and spatial referencing system. Once the correct position is located the reference pattern can be replaced with the actual installation template included in the packaging. This can be seen in .

The Installation Template provides a full size representation of the Display Device . It is used on the mounting surface without having to install the Wall Mount Bracket and possibly damage the mounting surface. Template preferably incorporates a bubble level to ensure proper leveling sticky points to easily attach the same to the mounting surface and make adjustments and markers to precisely determine the position of the Wall Mount Bracket and its anchor points sticky pads or screws . The Template can be placed on a wall and leveled to be exactly parallel with the floor or ceiling and when it is removed from the wall the markers are preferably left on the wall to direct a user as to the exact desired location of the Display Device and the Wall Mount Bracket . If the user needs to adjust the level to achieve the desired angle the user can easily detach and re attach the Template on the wall without damage to the wall. Once the Template is correctly located the user can mark the wall where screws or adhesive pads will be installed the template preferably incorporates a chalk like substance that automatically marks the wall when pressed . The user can then peel off the central part of the template to leave an empty hole A that is the exact shape of the Wall mount bracket. Once the Wall Mount Bracket is installed then the user is instructed to install the Connector Cord and connect it to the Power Brick without connecting the Power Brick to a power outlet . The remainder of the Template can be used to guide the actual mounting of the Display Device to the Wall Mount Bracket as the shape perfectly aligns with the edges of the Display Device to be installed. Finally using the Exoskeleton handles the Display Device can be attached to the Wall Mount Bracket by sliding the recessed back cover of the Display Assembly into the Wall Mount Bracket using the guiding channels built into the back cover. The Exoskeleton can then be removed to reveal the glass display screen of the Display Device and it can be set aside for later relocation of the device if necessary or desired. The last step is to connect the Power Brick to the power outlet to initiate the power up sequence of the Display Device . The user then removes the remainder of the Installation Template to complete installation.

The preferred embodiment for installation procedure is depicted in . In Step 1 Display Device powers up in infrastructure master mode and displays an encoded splash screen artistic rendering with encoded unique ID while Mobile App is connected to Service Cloud through local Wireless Access Point WAP or 3G 4G LTE . In Step 2 a user takes a picture of the splash screen with Mobile App and extracts an SSID of the device from information encoded in splash screen the Mobile App is still communicating with Service Cloud through its normal WiFi or 3G 4G LTE connection. In Step 3 the Mobile App switches its WiFi connection to the device and the user sets local WAP settings directly or copies the configuration from another Display Device. In Step 4 the Display Device restarts in slave mode to connect to local WAP Mobile App resets its connection to WAP and Display Device registers with Service Cloud . Finally in Step 5 Mobile App receives confirmation that a new Display Device is fully commissioned and ready for normal operations.

As an alternative to the configuration procedure presented in the Display Device may use its internal WiFi BlueTooth NFC or iBeacon capability to communicate with the Client Control device. After completing its power up sequence the Display Device configures its WiFi Bluetooth NFC or iBeacon wireless interface in auto discover model encrypted . The Mobile App scans the opening pictures displayed on the Display Device or the QR code printed on the packaging to extract the key information necessary to find the Display Device Bluetooth NFC or iBeacon signal authenticate securely and obtain Display Device information that is validated with the Service Cloud . Once the Display Device is authenticated the Mobile App copies its own WiFi settings to Display Device through the BlueTooth NFC or iBeacon connection and instructs the Display Device to reboot with the new WiFi configuration that will allow the Display Device to connect with the local Wireless Access Point . A second Display Device may also auto discover an existing Display Device in close proximity upon completing its power up sequence and communicate with this Display Device to obtain its WiFi configuration thus removing the need for manual configuration using a Client Control device.

The iC DPC Display Processor module may also be packaged as a stand alone unit hereinafter called Player capable of driving a standard FullHD display through a standard HDMI port. The Player can be seen in . The Player is a stand alone packaging of the ultra thin iC DPC Display Processor module enclosed into the ultra slim form factor of a flat and thin solid preferably having a maximum thickness of 7 mm. It preferably communicates with a traditional display device such as a TV or computer monitor through a standard micro HDMI connector . The Player provides a means to display visual and or audio media content through App and VSC on a standard TV instead of a Display Device . For example if a Gallery wants to display some digital artwork on a 105 display then the gallery can use the Player to drive a standard 105 TV through its standard HDMI port. The Player is configured to embed the same iC DPC Display Processor electronics as the Display Device thus allowing a user to connect the standard TV with VSC so that the standard TV can be controlled in exactly the same way as a standard Display Device would. The only difference between the use of Player with a regular TV and the use of a Display Device is that the Player is an external component to a standard TV instead of the iC DPC Display Processor being embedded in the Display Device itself.

The Player preferably uses a stylized LED indicator to provide status information to user. The Player preferably uses the same type of wireless connection as the iC DPC Display Processor embedded in a Display Assembly to communicate with the Service Cloud . In addition it preferably has the capability to embed audio along with video into the HDMI signal. The Player is preferably powered through a standard external power supply. It may also be configured to be powered through its embedded Power Over Ethernet IEEE 802.3 2012 internal capability.

A Mobile Client Application App may be compatible with one or more of the iOS Android Windows and other mobile platforms and is used to enable users to control and manage their entire user experience. Its functionalities can also be embedded into web pages available through a Web browser or a single purpose tablet device. The App preferably incorporates an advanced and innovative visual and interactive design to offer a highly intuitive and stylish user interface to control operations of embodiments of the Display Devices embodying the present invention and enable other functions such as secure access to user account and profile information review monitoring and management of owned devices review monitoring and control of product subscriptions browsing and management of purchased digital media content browsing and management of private user media content browsing and viewing of media content collections and catalog purchase or subscription of products or services through a shopping cart including immediate access to a payment gateway access to all social functions including subscribing to specific media content items updating social network app status sharing comments and more adapt and push selected media content purchased subscribed or private to specific devices and ingesting private user media content selecting one s own still images or video normalizing to set viewing standards adapting to the viewing experience of the present invention and uploading to the Service Cloud or private cloud storage . In fact the App is the user interface of the Display Device which allows users to control all aspects of its operations.

All communications between App and Display Device are preferably routed through the Service Cloud to enforce a strong security framework except for the very limited use cases when a direct Bluetooth NFC or iBeacon connection can be established between the Display Device and the Client Control device running the Mobile Client App . The App is configured to communicate with the service cloud over public or private Internet. In turn the Service Cloud is configured to send requests and content to and receive information from the Display Devices of the present invention. The communication link is a generally wireless one through a local network the connection to which is managed by the smart mobile device hosting the App but generally proceeds by allowing the selection of the SSID of a local WiFi network and entering of a security key if required. Alternately the smart mobile device can communicate over its cellular data communication interface.

A single Client Control and App are preferably adapted to remotely control several Display Devices whether the Display Devices are in the same room or across the world. The App is designed to control each Display Device separately or coordinate the actions of several Display Devices synchronously to coordinate a spatial arrangement of Display Devices where a single digital media content item can be displayed across several Display Devices. The user experience of the present invention is aimed to deliver a pure interactive experience where all complexity is handled by the system to leave the user with a simple and highly intuitive user interface. The primary function of the App is to control the operations of the Display Device the App is designed to bridge the separation between the two devices and make them behave as one highly intuitive and coordinated system.

The App s user interface is based on a structured tiling layout where a user can visually group digital media content items including Apps and slide a thumbnail representation of the content item to an abstract user interface representation of the selected Display Device . All content management functions can be implemented using this intuitive paradigm. Due to the geometric arrangement of the various elements of the user interface the user can intuitively select and drag content items to mimic the gesture of pushing the content item to a Display Device that is physically in front of or in some way connected to the Client Control . A similar gesture can be used to remove images from a Display Device which have been placed thereon by a user. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention all images can be uploaded to and removed from Display Devices by means of the App by using a simple drag and drop configuration on the Client Control through the App s user interface. A user can thus drag an image to a digital representation of a specific Display Device on their App to display an image and drag the image away from the Display Device representation to remove the image therefrom and place it back in the content library. In another embodiment App can also be provided with an erase function by which an image can be removed from a Display Device merely by waiving App on the Client Control in front of a Display Device displaying an image. This will preferably remove the image from the Display Device and place the image back into the content library in the same manner as the drag and drop configuration. The user interface interaction model is designed to manage all types of media content still images motion images interactive images and app images in the same way regardless of their type of interaction installation complexity or operations controls.

Similarly and unlike traditional applications the execution of an app image is controlled by the App with the simple gesture of drag and dropping the App Image icon to a Display Device . The App software is configured to detect the drag and drop gesture and to send a command to the VSC to instruct the selected Display Device to download the App Image install it and have it ready for execution. This background process may actually cause a slight delay in the appearance of the app driven image on the Display Device because of the time required for that process. Preferably the App interface can display an interim image for the brief time during which this process is occurring.

The App allows users to create an account manage account profile settings and payment information set usage preference and review usage and payment history. Each owner of one or many Display Devices has a Customer account. Each user has a separate User account that can be linked to the same Customer account. All User accounts of the same Customer account are able to share access and control of a common pool of devices or digital media content. One of these User accounts is preferably designated as primary and controls specific access privileges for all User accounts linked to this Customer account. There are different types of Customer accounts based on the type of commercial activities that they can perform within the Content Service Cloud community selling content buying content buying and subscribing to content reselling content ingesting original content or simply viewing content. Finally one or several Display Devices are linked to a Customer account along with all digital media content items purchased or subscribed by this Customer account.

The App enables authorized users to configure devices linked to the same Customer account. Users can define their profile name and location privacy settings access list visibility content restrictions type of content notification and operation settings such as sleep time audio delay brightness offset and maintenance rules and periods.

The App enables a properly authenticated user to install and provision a Display Device linked to a Customer account. Each Display Device can be linked to a Customer account using its unique identification number. This number is preferably encoded in the image displayed by the device during its start up procedure and captured by the App through the camera of Client Control .

The App enables authorized users to control operations of a Display Device that is linked to the same Customer account. Users can load or remove digital media content review storage usage mirror content from another authorized device set the digital frame and mat rules activate disable playlists adjust brightness contrast and color saturation of specific digital media content items on a specific device or control backlighting intensity pixel hoping reboot to factory settings reset network interface or display status. The App also provides access to support and maintenance to enable functions such as browsing knowledge base chat with a customer support agent reporting a defective device or service malfunction or restoring a backup configuration to a new device.

The App allows authorized users to manage content that is owned or subscribed to by the Customer account taking into consideration limitations defined by the primary User account owner. Each Customer account has a master content library that contains references to content items which are owned i.e. digital media content frames mats and playlist or subscribed to content channel by the account. Using the same user interface paradigm as described for controlling operations of the present invention users can browse review metadata preview and push to the device any content item that is referenced in the account master content library. In addition a user can add or remove any content item purchased or subscribed from a Display Device and create or modify Favorites playlists or a configuration made of specific digital media content items paired with specific frames mats and playlist items. Subscribed digital media content is presented in the form of content channels i.e. a large number of digital media content items grouped under a common theme and available for display on any device linked to a Customer account for a limited period of time. Finally users can organize content items in folders or browse by age viewing frequency type viewing locations etc.

If an image is desired to be pulled from the Internet and displayed on a Display Device upon its selection on the App VCSC will preferably determine whether that image has been cached on the Display Device previously and instantaneously download and display the selected image on a desired Display Device if it was not cached. The image will then be stored in the content library on VCSC for future use. Any time thereafter that a user wishes to re display that image it can be selected on App from the content library and drag and dropped to the digital representation of a desired Display Device on the App for display thereon.

The App enables authorized users to acquire content items including App Images or subscribe to a content channel. Its intuitive user interface preferably allows users to browse content catalogs and collections by keywords pricing parameters theme type ranking recommendations and emotional attributes view metadata of content items preview watermarked content in the App s viewer or for a short period of time on the device and complete a one time transaction to purchase content items using payment information linked to the Customer account. Through this process a user can acquire ownership rights of digital media content Still Images Motion Images Interactive Images and App Images frames mats and playlist items. For playlist purchase in addition to previous functions the App also allows user to preview the entire playlist with play controls and watermarked content and preferably automatically generates a list of digital media content items that are missing from customer s own content library to have the complete playlist. Similarly a user can acquire limited duration viewing rights for the content included in the content channel through a recurring payment model. Finally the user interface provides access to commercial terms and conditions of transactions transaction history and order status.

Under certain pre determined conditions the App preferably allows certain categories of authorized customers to sell digital media content that was either previously acquired through the Service Cloud or newly added to its own catalog. Typically resale of digital media content is controlled by the terms of ownership that explicitly determine whether a content item can be resold and the commercial terms that are applicable. A limited number of customer Account types preferably have the privilege to sell content. Once content is fully ingested and made available for sale the App allows customers to monitor and control the selling process including defining commercial metadata terms conditions and pricing reviewing and accepting or rejecting offers and completing the commercial transaction.

The App also enables authorized users to manage their social user experience. It allows users to send receive and reject friend requests post status automatically or manually on the internal social network or externally to third party social networks publish like dislike reviews and comments of content managed by the cloud service make suggestions and recommendations and create or participate in discussion groups and blogs that are open to the entire online cloud community or limited to a private sub community. User can also trade playlists or join authoring groups that are jointly and dynamically creating shared playlists. All such content can be displayed on a Display Device .

Users can also use the App to import their own private user content display it on their Display Device and share it among the Service Cloud community. The user interface guides the user through an automated workflow with gates and checkpoints that allow the user to control the quality and specifications of the media content item that will be stored in the Service Cloud . First it allows a user to select a private picture or video content item in a wide variety of format from local storage or a third party cloud service. Then it triggers the upload of the selected content to the Service Cloud where it is preferably normalized adapted to internal standards and converted to mezzanine format. Finally a user can make color saturation brightness and contrast adjustments and preview in full resolution on device add metadata and set share attributes. Once the content is stored in the user s private library the user can browse organize edit viewing preferences push to any authorized device or delete. The App also allows authorized user to send accept or decline a share request to from another user that is part of its social network modify sharing attributes review sharing history and trace review viewing history or withdraw sharing privileges.

Additionally the App is configured to hide all security and rights permissions for the Display Devices to which it is connected through VSC . Thus a user can send an image directly from App on his Client Control directly to a Display Device whether their own or one for which he has previously been granted access without any intermediate steps from a third party intermediary granting rights to do so or without requiring the interface of a third party intermediary. Previously a user would require such a third party intermediary such as Facebook Instagram a text message or other device to send an image to another. The present invention aims to overcome this issue.

The App is designed to allow extensions to be added automatically when App Images are installed the iC DPC Display Processor . These extensions are specific to each App Images. They are preferably encapsulated into the VEAL adapter that delivers all required resources including Access Control Management and Control Content Delivery and Security. The VEAL adapter allows App Extensions to communicate securely with its external Service Cloud or through its corresponding Virtual Environment hosted within the Service Cloud . Extensions are additional user interface elements which can be loaded onto the App for display on the Display Device . For example if a user loads a NetFlix app on the Display Device the App can have additional user interface elements to allow the user to control the NetFlix app e.g. select a movie . These new user interface elements can preferably be grouped together under a NetFlix panel as an extension of the user interface.

Shown in Active Frame is provided for standard mobile device for example tablets iPads Kindles Iconias PadPhones Transformer Pads Galaxy Notes Nexuses Xperias Excites hereinafter collectively referred to as tablet T. The Active Frame for a tablet device is preferably made of two mechanical components configured to connect around the perimeter of a mobile device. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the two mechanical components comprise 1 a U shape frame with a rail that allows a standard tablet T to slide therein and 2 a straight fourth side of the frame that matches the design of the U shape frame assembly . The fourth side has a locking mechanism at each end to lock it in place and create a solid frame around the tablet. The fourth side incorporates a male connector that will be inserted into the female connector of the tablet when the fourth side is locked in place. Different sized Active Frame for tablets preferably match the exact specifications of different types of tablet devices T. The frame preferably aesthetically enhances the viewing experience of digital art posters decorations and other visual and or audio content and may allow a standard tablet to stand nearly upright on a horizontal surface or be mounted on a vertical surface using a simple anchoring system similar to traditional frame mounting mechanism . Other variations of the configuration of the Active Frame are also envisioned.

This Active Frame preferably functions to lock a standard mobile tablet to allow it to function solely as a device disclosed by the present invention thus preventing the tablet from being used for any other purposes than viewing digital media content. Prior to inserting the tablet T into the Active Frame the user must load an app shown schematically on the tablet T to enable the tablet to operate in a way that is similar to the Display Device of the present invention. Once inserted in the Active Frame the electronics discussed below embedded in the Active Frame can send a signal through the tablet connector to inform the tablet operating system to allow only the application of the present invention to run while connected to the Active Frame. Detaching the frame side that is connected to the tablet connector port will restore the tablet to its normal operations. Once locked the tablet and frame assembly communicates with the VSC through the tablet WiFi interface and can be controlled like other Display Devices . The Active Frame preferably draws power from the tablet T when connected through its connector port but preferably also comes with its own external power supply to power the active frame and the tablet. In another embodiment Active Frame comprises a communication device which is configured to communicate with the tablet T through radio including Bluetooth WiFi NFC or iBeacon.

The Active Frame contains a processor media storage to store digital media content securely separately from the tablet s own storage and secured registers A where the frame unique identifier and security keys are stored. This information is used to encrypt encode and slice digital media content in a way that is similar to the security sub system of the iC DPC Display Processor .

Native service clouds have direct access to all resources of the V Service Cloud to deliver maximum performance. The main native service cloud is the V Content Service Cloud that is designed to deliver visual and or audio content to the Display Device under user Client Control and managed by Service Operations Management Application . Other native service clouds are also deployed to deliver services such as enterprise visual communications and digital signage.

The V Live Data Gateway VDG provides a Virtual Environment Abstraction Layer VEAL to allow external service clouds or to deliver their services to Display Devices and the App running on Client Control within the V Service Cloud environment. VEAL follows a three tier model where the top tier is a standardized and structured layer attached to the external service cloud allowing the external service cloud to securely communicate with a second tier made of a corresponding Virtual Environment within the Service Cloud that directly controls interaction with a third tier which is a VEAL interface attached to the corresponding app installed on the Display Processor and controlled through a corresponding extension of the Client Control . The top tier i.e. the external standardized layer communicating with the second tier Virtual Environment is structured in four elements content security access control and management with each element being specific to each external cloud service or . In addition to acting as a secure proxy routing data from the external service cloud or to and from the Display Processor and the Client Control the external service Virtual Environment splits controls from content allowing each one to be routed to and from a different device. By opposition to traditional cloud services for example a video on demand service which combines user controls and content viewing on the same device e.g. a TV the external service Virtual Environment allows controls to be routed to and from the Client Control and content to be simultaneously routed to the Display Device . The external service Virtual Environment also performs deep data filtering to prevent any malware from reaching the Display Device and other management functions allowing both the external service cloud or and the Service Cloud to keep track of activity history and other usage and commercial metrics.

In simpler situations where data is simply sent from an external source to the Display Device Display Processor the VDG acts as a data concentrator to securely route data from an external service cloud or to create an App Image . VDG uses connectors to receive live RSS XML or URL data feeds and make them available to App Images running on registered Display Devices . VSDK which will be discussed in further detail allows developers to create new connectors and or register their Apps to connected live data feeds. VDG also incorporates a security filtering mechanism to make sure that live data feeds do not carry any harmful data.

A specific application of VDG and VEAL is to enable over the top OTT capability for the Display Devices of the present invention by creating an OTT Virtual Environment that acts as a secure proxy for external service clouds and aggregates their content to be sent to the corresponding VEAL wrapped App Image running on Display Processor and managed e.g. by login credential and controlled e.g. by feed selection through a Client Control and a corresponding VEAL wrapped extension . Thus a user with a single Display Device can use the multi image layout capability of the iC DPC Display Processor to aggregate several types of App Images driven by their corresponding Virtual Environment for example a movie feed a video game feed or Skype chat feed so that all images can be displayed separately and yet simultaneously and concurrently on the same Display Device using a preset display layout and under control of specific Client Control user interface extensions . This can include any combination of still images motion images interactive images or app images. The OTT aggregation capability can be utilized for digital art poster and decor images for social networking for gaming or even for television broadcast or on demand or other MSO or OTT content.

Using the split relationship between the App and a Display Device a user can log into his her own web service account i.e. social network media streaming etc. on the Client Control and direct the output to be displayed on a select Display Device by simply pushing the visual representation of the web service to the selected Display Device without the need for a third party intermediary.

While the preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses the display of digital art it is also envisioned that the Display Device App and VSC of the present invention are configured for the transmission and display of other digital content such as decorations posters internet streaming of television or movies video games social media video chatting social networking MSO or OTT visual and or audio content or even the display of Applications normally accessed on a mobile device.

The V Communication Controller ViCC preferably maintains communication with all active Display Devices routes native data to and from the various native Service Clouds or and VEAL wrapped data to and from Virtual Environments and keeps track of the operational status of all Display Devices that are provisioned. Communication to and from each Display Device preferably employs XMPP messages over secured IP connection for signaling a secure payload transfer protocol over secured IP connection for digital media content distribution. ViCC can keep track of the status of each device through XMPP presence status. Upon receiving a request to upload a digital media content item ViCC can solicit a cloud Content Distribution Network CDN to deliver the payload to the device.

The V Interface Server VIS is a highly scalable server architecture that handles all communications between the Service Cloud and the App on Client Control to service all functions and capabilities accessible through the user interface of App on the Client Control . VIS routes native messages from native Service Clouds or or VEAL wrapped messages from Virtual Environments to the App . VIS also routes information and data requests from the App to the appropriate Service Cloud or Virtual Environment . VIS enforces strict positive authentication to authenticate user and validate commands and requests.

The V Service Management System VSMS is configured to collect all data reflecting operational status and performance levels of provisioned Display Devices VSC systems and applications and VSC itself to generate alerts reports and dashboards allowing a service operations team to maintain peak service performance at all time anticipate service degradation and plan capacity. All components of the service disclosed by the present invention Display Device Mobile Client App VSC and its corresponding cloud systems infrastructure preferably generate status information on a regular basis.

The instrumentation is designed with several levels of awareness that can be automatically triggered by an internal rule engine. An operator can also manually put a system or device on a watch list that will automatically trigger a higher level of awareness. Depending on the level of awareness the instrumentation agent can send different types of information to VSMS ranging from simple heartbeat to alerts or detailed configuration reports. The remote device sending more detailed information along with the standard heartbeat is called higher level of awareness because the central monitoring system is now aware of more detailed information regarding the remote device. VSMS preferably uses a correlation engine to detect and streamline cascading conditions link causes and effects and perform trend analysis. All data and tools are preferably accessible through secured web services allowing authorized operators to visualize information and rapidly implement corrective actions from any web enabled device. VSMS can also automatically capture traces and log for audit capacity planning and training. Finally VSMS can allow operators to plan and execute system upgrades and updates on a granular basis. It enables distribution and installation of software upgrades and updates based on model number serial number unique identification code region or time zone date of commissioning usage pattern and according to update rules set by users. It also enables software upgrades or updates of the Service cloud and its underlying cloud infrastructure.

VSMS is designed to route all data to and from Apps Virtual Environment within the Service Cloud to Service Operations Management applications that are capable of controlling and monitoring Virtual Environments and their corresponding Client Control user interface extensions and Display Processor Image Apps. A VEAL adapter is wrapped around the extensions to Service Operations Management applications that are required to properly manage all resources related to App Images.

The VCSC preferably comprises a Secure Data and Media Storage System VSSS a Provisioning Engine VPE a Social Network Engine VSNE a Customer Relationship Management Engine VCRME an Advanced Commerce Engine VCE a Digital Media Content Ingestion Engine VIE and an External Content Gateway VCG . VCSC also uses resources from the V Service Cloud to communicate with other elements of the ecosystem such as the Communication Controller ViCC to control all communications with Display Devices through a secured Primary Internet Connection the user Interface Server VIS to interface with the App through a Secondary Internet Connection and the Service Management System VSMS to deliver operations control and monitoring capabilities.

The VCSC is built on a strong security framework to positively identify authenticate and protect all user requests coming from the App and all communications with Display Devices . Preferably all elements of all instances and representations of digital media content stored in the VCSC are fully encrypted and protected from unauthorized access through a strict and granular access control mechanism that explicitly defines access privileges for each authenticated user. Preferable performance and scalability characteristics of the VCSC may be provided by its internal secure signaling fabric using the highly extensible XMPP protocol to signal between all cloud systems the App and Display Device embedded software. Using this signaling fabric all control command and reporting communications are routed quickly from origin to destination. Each communication instance is secured through an authentication and integrity mechanism that allows receiver to positively authenticate the source and validate the integrity of the data. Hence in addition to using a highly secured private cloud infrastructure preferably all communications taking place within or across this private cloud boundary are protected.

The VSSS storage architecture includes four primary storage components. The first component is a Metadata Repository which preferably uses a NOSQL database to store and index all metadata and derived non full resolution digital media representations that are ingested captured otherwise or automatically generated during the ingestion process including derivate media format such as thumbnails and icons. Once the decision is made to make media content items visible in the online catalog i.e. available for browsing searching previewing viewing purchasing and subscribing then its metadata is copied to a Commerce Catalog where is preferably accessible by VPE and VCE . VPE which will be discussed later in detail is also adapted to access the Key Vault and its Cypher Key Repository to validate and manage digital media content requests. A second component called the Image Blob is a highly scalable and secure flat file system storing the actual full resolution media content Still Motion Interactive and App Images that can be distributed to a Display Device in mezzanine format. A wrapper is preferably used to permit storage of all types of digital media content Still Image Moving Image Interactive Image App Image Digital Frames and Digital Mats using a single internal representation thus speeding up access and transfer and facilitating security enforcement. Together the Image Blob and the Metadata Repository are called library . The third component is the Commerce Catalog that preferably uses an SQL or other known database to store a subset of the library data that is accessible by VPE and VCE for commercial transactions. VPE uses the Key Vault and its Cypher Key Repository to validate and manage full resolution media content from the Image Blob to Display Devices . Finally the fourth component is the Originals Archive which preferably uses the same data structure as the Image Blob to preserve the original digital media content representation for later retrieval and processing if needed. The Originals Archive uses a highly secured but low access speed partition of the VSSS . Digital media content can be uploaded by an artist to the VCSC in whatever format was chosen by the artist. The VIE receives this file in its original format and normalizes it into the internal mezzanine format that is used to display all digital images on the Display Devices disclosed by the present invention. Digital media content ingested by VIE can be stored in the Image Blob in this format as well. However there is also a need to preserve the artwork or other digital media image in its original format for later processing in a different mezzanine format if a new format is adopted or simply to give the assurance that original artwork can be restored in its original format. Hence the original artwork is preserved in its original format in the Originals Archive using the same interface file structure as the Image Blob . A fifth component of the VSSS the user Private Libraries are used to store and manage Private User Content that is ingested in the Service Cloud to be viewed on Display Devices or shared with the Service Cloud community. Finally VSMS has complete secure access to all elements of VSSS for management and system administration purpose. Critical metadata full resolution digital media content and original digital media content can be secured using standard asymmetric cryptography whereby encryption keys are secured in a separate Key Vault hosted in a separate highly secure private cloud and managed by the Crypto Controller application running in a secure partition of the VCSC . The same Key Vault also stores the Cypher Keys used to re assemble a higher value digital content item from its particles.

The V Provisioning Engine VPE delivers the core functionality for deploying provisioning and delivering the best digital content experience to a Display Device. VPE is a rule based deterministic cloud software application that works with a Display Device and App to deliver media content items in accordance with commercial right rules and security policies governing their use. VPE also ensures that the experience guidelines defined by the author or creator of a digital media content item are strictly enforced by preventing unauthorized viewing conditions of digital media content. VPE is configured to control all aspects of distributing and viewing digital media content on a Display Device including but not limited to 

 1 Rights ensuring that a Display Device and its owner has acquired the rights to store and or view a digital media content item at a given time and for a given location 

 2 Orientations Sizing and Scaling making sure that each digital media content item is displayed in accordance with the viewing rules set by its creator ingestion specialist or curator display resolution orientation detected by built in sensor etc. 

 3 Framing and Matting making sure that media content is properly framed and matted to deliver the best viewing experience in accordance with the guidelines set by its creator ingestion specialist or curator and

 4 Interaction ensuring proper coordination between apps and media content and preventing unauthorized apps from entering the VSC and interacting with managed or protected content.

VPE can create and recommend presentation layouts in real time to combine several digital media content items all types on a single Display Device based on guidelines and limitations dictated by the media content author or creator settings from users and internal provisioning rules. These layouts can be static change over time following a specific pattern or change over time driven by an external data source e.g. temperature .

VPE also incorporates complete Digital Rights Management DRM capability to manage rights to access load and view each digital media content item registered with the VCSC . VPE s DRM capability strictly limits the number of instances of a digital media content item that can be distributed or viewed at any given time. VPE s DRM use stenographical watermark invisible to keep an unbreakable trace of all V managed digital media content items. The DRM is preferably used to create manage and deliver a digital Certification of Authenticity that replaces the traditional COA that is common in the art world. The DRM preferably provides an unbroken chain of ownership and location from initial content ingestion to current ownership and active location is maintained and can be consulted at any time through the App . This digital COA provides authorized users with specific details about a specific digital media content item like identity of people or organizations involved in production or creation location and time of release production completion exact name of the item exact dimensions resolution color depth and other representation attributes name and qualifications of the individual who ingested and authenticated the item and reference sites books or other resources that contain related information about the item. Digital COAs are preferably encrypted and locked to current owner.

The V Social Network Engine VSNE enables all social networking functions accessible through the App user interface both internal and external to the VSC . In addition VSNE provides a suite of tools to control and manage all aspects of social networking activities. It can keep a detailed trace of all activities for audit trend and cohort analysis and detection. It can also provide granular control to selectively activate disable or filter any social networking functions for any item or group of items in the commercial catalog. Also it has the capability to monitor all social networking channels to detect keywords or combination of keywords and automatically send alerts post a reply or quarantine information.

As can be seen in a key component of VSNE is its Social Distribution System A that enables a user to upload private pictures and videos to a private library in VSSS and provides such Private User Content PUC for sharing and viewing in a secure manner under strict control of the user. To ensure security unprocessed private content is preferably two key encrypted encoded and normalized before it is uploaded to the Service Cloud . Private content owner PCO retrieves a private key to encrypt both the full resolution PUC and its lower resolution watermarked preview version . The encryption key exchange is preferably managed through a Third Party Crypto Key Management Service to ensure that encryption keys preferably never touch the Service Cloud un encrypted thus denying the Service Cloud from ever decoding PUC or without the explicit contribution of the owner PCO.

Once fully ingested and stored in the private user library VSNE enables sharing of PUC or with other users. Upon positively accepting the receipt of a shared PUC item the recipient preferably obtains a key pointer directly from the PUC item owner and retrieves its private key directly from the Third Party Crypto Key Management Service to preview a watermarked version of the PUC without ever touching the Service Cloud . The same mechanism is preferably used to send the full resolution version of PUC to the Display Device . Once delivered to the recipient the PUC is preferably managed by recipient like any other digital media content item. However shared PUC viewing and re sharing rights are preferably defined by the PUC owner encoded in the PUC Ingestion and preferably automatically enforced by Social Distribution System A of VSNE . These rights define distribution and viewing conditions such as time period for which the private content is available the type of device on which the content can be viewed and redistribution limitations. PUC owner can also cancel viewing and or re sharing right collectively or individually at any time. The combination of encryption keys managed by a third party service and encoded sharing constraints limits and restricts distribution of PUC within the social network.

The V CRM Engine VCRME is a highly secure cloud application that keeps track of all information pertaining to customers and users registered devices and partners. For customers and users VCRME is adapted to keep track of all account information such as name contact information usage history relationships to other customers and users usage preferences content and ownership and accessibility and access credentials. VCRME also keeps track of all registered Display Devices their relationships to customer accounts and authentication information. Finally VCRME preferably also manages all data allowing partners including gallerists independent artists and content suppliers to access resources content and devices according to their access privileges.

The V Commerce Engine VCE preferably enables the entire transaction cycle allowing users to sell buy or loan digital media content that is managed by the cloud service. VCE facilitates browsing and search for digital media content items through traditional keyword search and an analog tag search engine that identifies content items by a series of tags that have a value of 1 to 100 thus allowing a user to incorporate less tangible nuances in its search criteria. VCE works with payment gateways to settle the transaction and ensure that proper payment is completed either through an automated credit card transaction or manual invoicing and reconciliation. VCE also enforces commercial transaction rules by ensuring that royalties and commissions are registered and all parties are properly notified and credited or debited. Finally VCE is preferably configured to enforce digital rights of ownership and consuming viewing by ensuring as a minimum 

1 Ownership ensuring that ownership is properly transferred and recorded and ownership history is properly updated 

2 Uniqueness and Viewing Rights ensuring that distribution rules such as number of authorized copies concurrent viewing and duration of viewing set by the originator of the content are enforced 

3 Trading rights ensuring that trading rules determining whether a digital media content item can be resold pricing and other commercial terms and conditions are strictly enforced and

4 Protection managing mechanisms that protect the authenticity and uniqueness of all digital media content items and trace potential unauthorized access and enforces visible watermarking of all media content that is displayed in the App and secure transfer storage and traceability of all digital media content that is distributed to a Display Device.

As seen in the V Digital Media Content Ingestion Engine VIE is an automated workflow engine configured to control importation and adaptation of digital media content of all types Still Images Motion Images Interactive Images and App Images into the library of the V Secure Storage System VSSS . Depending on the type and volume of content to import VIE offers two primary mechanisms web user interface driven import tools for low volume ingest B and an XML based API for high volume ingest A. VIE can also provide a user interface to allow an ingestion specialist to complete origination curation commercial and technical metadata as well as metadata that is specifically used by the search engine. Finally VIE can provide access to a suite of visual editing tools to modify the way a digital media content item is displayed on embodiments of the Display Device of the present invention. Using these tools an authorized user can interactively adjust contrast default brightness color saturation and black white levels while watching the impact of these changes on a device display in real time. All data derived from ingested content or created during the ingestion process can preferably be stored in the VSSS . During this process a number of validation gates are created to allow various authorities to approve artistic curation technical and commercial information.

The Ingestion Workflow of the present invention seen in preferably uses unique algorithms to maximize the appearance audio and video value of content being viewed on a Display Device. It analyses the visual and or audio content to identify critical viewing elements and optimum sightline and makes adjustments such as cropping scaling or altering of images including color enhancement and translation rotation to maximize the viewing experience. Each modification can preferably be undone and a sequential list of recent modifications is preferably available linked to the media content and saved on the Service Cloud .

VIE provides a web based interactive authoring tool to support creation of Interactive Images. Using these tools an authorized user can create Interactive Images by importing Still and Motion Images from a library and adding interactivity using a series of pre defined interactivity profiles. Each profile defines the trigger and Image reaction. Triggers can be time based driven from an external data feed or driven from an interactive app that reacts to the presence of an Image. Image reaction can change any aspect of the image or trigger a change in the interactive app. The interactive authoring tool also provides a simulator to test the Interactive Image. Once completed metadata can be created and validated and the Interactive Image is packaged and stored in a VSSS library .

Using Still and Motion Images stored in VSSS library a creator can use the V Creative Studio VCS and V Software Development Kit VSDK to create or modify Interactive Images and App Images respectively. The VCS provides an integrated user interface to access a suite of tools including an 1 interactive visual editor 2 an annotation and text editing tool 3 a visual scripting user interface for the interactive Image mobile app 4 a visual scripting user interface to create new connectors with Display Devices or external data sources and 5 a toolbox of existing external data source connectors.

The interactive visual editor provides a highly intuitive user interface to select import and modify still and motion Images import or create and edit graphics elements create static and dynamic layouts and collages including overlays and transparencies and synchronize all visual and or audio elements with external data sources using connectors. The annotation and text editing tool provides a powerful suite of tools to create morph and animate visual text elements. The resulting visual and or audio elements can be used on a Display Device or within the Interactive Image App B depending of the type of interactivity that is required. Interactive Image App B can be added on to the App or be packaged as separate apps linked to the main control App to allow a user to interact with and control interactive images on a Display Device . Using one of the default Interactive Image App containers as foundation the visual scripting tool allows a user to rapidly create scripts using a close derivate of JavaScript adapted to the context of Interactive Images the script controls the interaction and synchronization between the mobile app and the visual and or audio content displayed on a Display Device. Finally the same visual script editor can also be used to create new connectors or modify existing connectors from the VSSS library to bind external data sources and events with the Interactive Image mobile App and related visual content. An Interactive Image Simulator allows interactive image creators to troubleshoot their Interactive Image creation before performing final tests on a real Display Devices in sandbox mode . Sandbox Mode refers to staging a software system in an environment that closely mimics the real production environment for pre production readiness texting. It is between the product development testing environment and actual production environment. In the context of the present invention the Sandbox Mode refers to one or several Display Devices that are connected to a pre production test cloud sandbox cloud to test it in a real environment without the risk of corrupting the actual Service Cloud . This sandbox cloud preferably assists with evaluating and possibly troubleshooting readiness issues and can preferably be used to collect information on the interactive or app Image and make sure that meets all of the release criteria. Finally a creator is asked to provide the metadata required to complete the registration of a new Interactive Image media content item to VSSS library .

The VSDK provides similar capabilities for the creation of App Images. The VSDK includes 1 a complete Android IDE with specific resource libraries 2 a suite of connectors to handle Display Device resources and 3 a suite of connectors to handle external data sources. As for the VCS the IDE of the VSDK allows developer to create or modify existing connectors. VSDK also incorporates an App simulator and a sandbox where a real Display Device is tightly linked to VSDK for rapid evolution and troubleshooting iterations. Finally VSDK is requested to provide metadata before a new App Image is stored in VSSS library .

VIE provides access to the VSDK to allow App Image creators to develop and test their App Images. VSDK is largely based on a commercial Android IDE whose libraries and other resources have been modified to limit access to iC DPC resources only. Additional libraries are also made available to access VCSC resources including live data feed connections.

As seen in VCSC incorporates an automated workflow for ingesting digital media content adapting the content to internal standards and securely saving it in designated storage space in the Service Cloud. The workflow preferably accepts most standardized media formats commonly in use. The adaptation process normalizes the content to facilitate access by various functions of the Mobile Client App and Display Devices such as browsing or downloading. The workflow preferably provides content creators and ingestion specialists with checkpoints to ensure the quality of the normalized content and traceability to approval authorities.

VIE preferably supports two types of ingestion process Low Volume Ingestion B using an interactive web interface and High Volume Ingestion A using an XML based API. After initial access control login the web interface allows the user to select one or several media files in a wide range of standard formats to upload to the VIE system where it is queued. All media files are encrypted at the source before being uploaded and queued in the VCSC . Captured content is first validated to detect format or content defects and malware and obtain content confirmation from the owner. Then validated original content can be normalized to create a number of derivatives representations e.g. thumbnail and transcoded to internal mezzanine format and distribution format for full resolution display on a Display Device. Mezzanine and distribution content is adjusted for calibrated white black and color saturation value to provide a consistent viewing experience across all Display Device viewing including aspect ratio orientation size and scale are adjusted to deliver a consistent viewing experience. Artists also have access to interactive tools that allow them to make final adjustment directly on the Display Device. All ingested media content is protected lesser resolution media content representations are preferably watermarked while full resolution mezzanine media content is protected through the process of dissecting content into particles presented in .

All ingested content is managed by a digital rights management system which controls access and keeps a persistent ownership trace of each commercial digital media content item that is ingested into the VCSC through encoding encryption and bi univocal linkage between a content instance a customer account and a Display Device. The digital right management system also provides strictly controlled tools to modify and revoke credentials and securely remove all imprints of selected digital media content. VIE captures and creates a large quantity of metadata to properly describe and index ingested content. Some metadata is captured directly from the ingested file while other used defined metadata is specifically requested. VIE can preferably also automatically detect and create metadata related to the technical specifications of the ingested media content item e.g. size resolution aspect ratio . Once all metadata is created then VIE performs a complete consistency and validation scan before submitting all data for final user approval . User can pause and resume the ingestion workflow at any time without any loss of information.

The final step before submission of all data to VSSS is to ask user to accept legal terms and conditions . Digital media content stored in VSSS can be regularly accessed and modified or augmented by various specialists to perform product management curation and accounting tasks. Content and metadata stored in VSSS is also accessed by VCS and VSDK to create and modify Interactive and App Images.

High Volume Ingestion A is initially captured through an XML based API to allow for high volume and high speed ingestion directly from content suppliers own content repository. This ingestion workflow is similar to the Low Volume Ingestion B with the exception of human intervention steps original validation and interactive adjustment until final validation in order to streamline the automated ingestion process.

The V External Content Gateway VCG enables near real time transfer of authorized digital media content from an origination point outside of the VSC to a Display Device. Under proper commercial arrangement with an external digital media content catalog a user could browse and purchase a media content item that is not ingested in the Service Cloud and push it to a Display Device in near real time. VCG is preferably pre configured to gain access to the external catalog and process the media content item. By opposition to other digital media content that is managed by the Service Cloud external media content items are stored in the user library and fully protected by the digital right management system.

Shown in the Content Service Cloud uses a combination of storage mechanisms to ensure quick access to data protect all data and deliver peak performance at all scales. The dashed lines represent communication done between cloud components and endpoints done via SSL dotted lines represent communication done internally within the cloud and solid lines represent non secure http. Additionally are provided with letter labels A I corresponding to the communication lines connecting the components of each of these Figures together and how the components of each Figure interact with components of the other Figures. Each of the represents one of three components of the architecture of the Content Service Cloud of the present invention.

With an expected growth to millions of assets a cloud preferably combines highly scalable server capacity and secured storage. Great synergy performance and security are preferably achieved by having servers and storage in the same cloud. As a result scaling horizontally is as easy as adding a server to the cluster. This database is also closely integrated with a full text search engine that can handle full text searching of metadata of millions of assets. The CRM is a series of http service based apps with each service having one focus which can keep track of all users assets devices and controllers. Each service will follow the same scalability security and access model. With an http load balancer on the front and a cluster of backend virtualized server instances handling individual requests. By keeping the CRM within the cloud the core architecture is independent of a third party SaaS e commerce engine . The App preferably provides a native e commerce user interface by using a third party SaaS application REST API which allows App to browse the product catalog and complete the entire purchases cycle. An XMPP protocol is preferably used for communication between App and Display Device which delivers blazingly fast highly scalable and secure performance in near real time. XMPP Servers Jabber Backend are clusterable to handle scaling and TLS is supported out of the box. Middleware handles communications between the Cloud CRM and endpoints Display Device and App . This middleware routes messages from the CRM HTTP and translates to XMPP for delivery to the endpoint App Display Device . For securing digital media content an industry standard DRM solution is preferably used to provide hardware based decryption libraries for the iC DPC crypto core and the ability to perform encryption in VCSC .

Systems and methods exist to deliver a complete solution for durable and secure commerce of higher value digital content that require further protection. Systems and methods are provided that aim to guarantee the value of higher value digital content which includes limited edition high value digital posters paintings photos videos decorations and other visual and or audio content including MSO broadcast and content and by extension any digital document through durability uniqueness and authenticity integrity privacy and traceability.

Higher value digital content may be managed ensured to be durable authenticated and protected through various mechanisms including preferably by 1 using Cypher Keys to encode the instructions to re assemble dissected higher value digital content particles 2 ensuring that content ready for display is identical to reference content through a series of integrity markers and 3 slicing each particle of the dissected higher value digital content into n slices that are dispersed across various storage locations in the Service Cloud using dispersed storage such that the each particle of higher value digital content can be recovered using m slices out of n where n m.

The Crypto Controller is also part of the VPE . The Crypto Controller is designed as a secured application running in a secured portion of the VCSC to handle Cypher Key requests from the various devices. It preferably authenticates the device requesting access to a Cypher Key using its unique identification code and registration information and manages the primary and recovery Cypher Keys attached to each High Value Digital Content item. The Crypto Controller also manages pre formatted files stored in the Key Vault as well as the asymmetric encryption keys used throughout the system.

From the moment the original content is ingested into the VCSC until it is viewed on a Display Device higher value digital content is dissected into n distinct particles that are secured separately during the ingestion process until they are re assembled on a Display Device using the proper Cypher Key . The number of particles is a function of the size and morphology of the original higher value digital content . A single file of higher value digital content is preferably dissected in no less than 5 particles each of preferably no more than 200 KB. Multiple files of higher value digital content are preferably sliced in no less than m 3 particles of preferably no more than 200 KB where m is the number of files. The slicing process ensures that each resulting slice is meaningless by itself and does not represent a legible portion of the higher value digital content .

During the dissection process an encoded reference marker is introduced in each particle and referenced by the Cypher Key to re assemble a complete display representation of a higher value digital content in clear on a Display Device. Preferably a Cypher Key is a compact and encrypted hexadecimal sequence describing 1 the method for reassembling content particles 2 the minimum number of particles required to have a complete reassembly and 3 the type of cyphering used to protect each particle. Each Cypher Key is unique and its encoding changes with each key generation. The ingestion process generates as many unique Cypher Keys as there are authorized copies or instances of higher value digital content . For example if a still picture is to be distributed in 300 copies then 300 unique Cypher Keys are generated. Each Cypher Key is preferably uniquely encoded and encrypted to be traceable to its original at any time.

Cypher Keys are initially stored in a Key Vault that is stored in a secured partition of the Secured Storage System VSSS until the acquirer of a higher value digital content item downloads the content to its registered device and consumes an original Cypher Key. At this point a Recovery Key Kis generated in case the Display Device is destroyed and there is a need to create a clone. The Recovery Key Kcan be left in the Key Vault or moved to a new storage location. Content Keys are stored separately from the particles and are encrypted.

Once an original Cypher Key is consumed and downloaded to a device it is re encoded with the unique identification of the targeted device to ensure that the higher value digital content item is now securely locked and traceable to that device. The Cypher Key is used by the iC DPC to request a number of particles that is sufficient to re assemble a complete display representation of the higher value digital content item. Each content particle can be stored in an encoded and encrypted container that is uniquely tied to a single device to ensure that the higher value digital content item is now securely locked and traceable to that device. These containers cannot be opened in an environment that does not authenticate the hosting device correctly. Containers preferably incorporate an obfuscation algorithm to completely remove all traces of itself and its content if tempering is detected.

Once a higher value digital content item is re assembled on a device a series of checks is performed periodically to ensure that the display representation is identical in all aspects to the original resulting from the ingestion process. This process is performed using a series of Integrity Markers that were created during the ingestion process to authenticate the re assembled display representation of the content item and ensure that its data representation is identical to the referenced original.

Access to higher value digital content is ensured for long periods of time preferably in excess of 75 years through a combination of physical storage location physical storage technology logical storage dispersion and software application preventing degradation of digital content integrity through digital erosion or digital rotting . Each content particle is 1 sliced into n slices that are stored using a dispersed object model such that each particle can be recovered using m slices out of n where n m 2 each slice being stored on a physical device leveraging SSD technology and low level bit rotting prevention technology 3 SSDs installed at different locations selected for their extreme business continuity capabilities 4 the dispersed storage management system continuously evaluating the state of each slice to detect bit corruption or rotting and re creating corrupted or decaying data as needed the information if needed and 5 the dispersed storage management system continuously monitoring slices and storage devices to optimize slice distribution and preservation.

One or several higher value digital content items may be displayed on one or several Display Devices linked to the same Customer account owning the content. The App s intuitive user interface hides the complexity of setting up a Display Device to display higher value digital content item s . Several uses are supported 1 Single device displaying one higher value digital content item 2 Multiple devices displaying a single higher value digital content item 3 Single Device displaying multiple higher value digital content items and 4 Change of Ownership of higher value digital content.

The following is an example of the process executed to configure the device to display the higher value digital content once a device D is granted access to a specific instance of a higher value digital content item I 

 1 The Crypto Controller initiates download of the Cypher Key Kfrom the Key Vault that is part of the V Provisioning Engine VPE to the device D the Crypto Controller is a dedicated sub system to oversee the protection provisioning storage privacy maintenance and control of higher value digital content. It is partially opened re encoded with the unique identification of the device and kept in its Key Vault to lock Ito the Dpermanently thereby creating Media Content item I.

 3 Before the Cypher Key is downloaded a Recovery Key K is generated and activated. It is stored at a location to be dictated by the profile of the customer account owning the higher value digital content instance default is a separate partition of the Key Vault .

 5 Once higher value digital content slices are securely stored on Dthen Dreceives the Activation Code from the Crypto Controller to complete its Cypher Key. With this Activation Code Kis now complete and able to re assemble the digital content.

 6 The device Dprocesses Kto re assemble the higher value digital content just in time for consumption.

If the device is somehow destroyed then the Recovery Key Kis used to re assemble the higher value digital content instance Ion a new properly authorized and registered Display Device D as follows 

 7 The destroyed Ddevice is flagged as missing by the Crypto Controller and a notification is sent to the registered account linked to the device to obtain confirmation. Kis then de activated.

 9 Once Dis granted access to the same instance of a higher value digital content item I Dundertakes steps 1 to 6 above initially performed by D.

 10 A second Recovery Key K is generated and stored at a location to be dictated by the profile of the customer account owning the higher value digital content instance.

The owner of a higher value digital content instance may want to display the same content on more than one device linked to its Customer account. In this case the Crypto Controller allows the higher value digital content to be consumed on more than one Display Device at any given time through a carefully designed process an example of which follows 

 1 The Crypto Controller initiates downloading of the Cypher Key Kfrom the Key Vault that is part of the Service Cloud to the first device D. It is partially opened re encoded with the unique identification of the device and kept in its Key Vault to lock Ito the Dpermanently.

 3 Before the Cypher Key is downloaded a Recovery Key K is generated and activated. It is stored at a location to be dictated by the profile of the customer account owning the higher value digital content instance default is a separate partition of the Key Vault .

 5 Once higher value digital content slices are securely stored on Dthen Dreceives the Activation Code from the Crypto Controller to complete its Cypher Key. With this Activation Code Kis now complete and able to re assemble the digital content.

 6 The first Display Device Dprocesses Kto re assemble the higher value digital content just in time for consumption.

 8 D s Recovery Key Kis retrieved by the Crypto Controller to generate a unique KCypher Key. Kis then returned to its storage location.

 9 Kis downloaded to D. It is partially opened re encoded with the unique identification of D and kept in its Key Vault to permanently lock Ito the D.

 11 Before the Cypher Key is downloaded a Recovery Key K is generated and stored at a location to be dictated by the profile of the customer account owning the higher value digital content instance.

 13 Once higher value digital content slices are securely stored on Dthen Dreceives the Activation Code from the Crypto Controller to complete its Cypher Key. With this Activation Code Kis now complete and able to reassemble the digital content.

 14 The second device processes Kto re assemble the higher value digital content just in time for displaying.

A higher value digital content owner may want to consume more than one higher value digital content on the same device either using a pre defined or manual control. The following carefully designed process is executed to add higher value digital content instance Jto device Dthat is already containing content I 

 2 Dvalidates whether both higher value digital content Iand Jcan be stored concurrently with the information encoded in K i.e. whether there is enough storage space available for both .

 3 If Jcan reside concurrently with I then Duses the same process as outlined above to securely store Jon D. Cypher Keys and content particles are containerized separately on D.

 4 If Dcan t handle Iand Jconcurrently then Iparticles are permanently deleted from Dto make room for J. Kis kept on Dto accelerate a future request to return to I. Duses the same process as outlined above to securely store Jon D. Cypher Keys and particles are containerized separately on D.

To enable commerce of higher value digital content Display Devices are configured to execute a carefully designed process when an active higher value digital content item changes ownership. Assuming the previous case where Display Device Dstores both Iand Jand the Customer account owning Isells its Iinstance to another Customer account then the following is an example of a process which preferably takes place 

The Display Device of the present invention can also be used to display Controlled Visual Content with or without audio such as digital arts digital signage and other higher value digital visual and or audio content in the context of art exhibits or other uses where a large number of Display Devices are desired to be centrally managed. Digital art exhibits and similar uses lack a reliable affordable secure and normalized solution for easily deploying higher value digital content on a number of devices distributed across a closed network. An Exhibit Server provides a turnkey solution for digital curators exhibit managers or operator of large public venues seeking a complete solution to display digital content collections. The Exhibit Server preferably incorporates a number but not necessarily all of the functions that are otherwise provided by the Content Service Cloud in order to remove dependency on a broadband connection and reduce time to display a new digital media content item. It can also exceptionally be used to keep ingested media content items in local storage.

A specialized user interface to preferably control all aspects of the ingestion management of displays and management of digital media content is provided and optimized for tablet and standard browsers. It preferably combines individual display controls similar to the App with the capability to monitor and control a large number of displays with functions such as preset push of content to all displays or preset trigger of playlists for each display with one action. It also preferably provides controls of the ingestions process and several monitoring capabilities to rapidly identify and troubleshoot issues.

The Exhibit Server incorporates a Speed Cache Server combined with an optional media Streaming Server to send and to manage higher value digital content on a large number of devices installed on the closed network where the Speed Cache Server is installed. A Speed Cache Server is an intermediary storage solution which preferably accelerates the display process of digital content stored in the cloud on local devices and is preferably used when Internet connection is too slow or digital art items are too large causing significant delays between a request to display a specific digital art item and the actual viewing on a device. The Speed Cache Server is designed as a secure server using the same security and protection mechanisms designed for protecting digital media content stored on the Service Cloud i.e. dissecting media content into particles using Cypher Keys to reconstruct higher value digital content using Integrity Markers to validate authenticity and integrity and recreating corrupted particles when needed.

The Streaming Server is used for situations where digital media content is not allowed to be stored on each unit for legal or security reasons or new and very large digital media content items must be presented simultaneously and immediately on one or several units without pre fetching time. In this case the Speed Cache will use an optional Streaming Server to stream visual and or audio content in real time to designated units. The option to use a streaming server instead of the standard upload and display model can be configured by an Art Exhibit or Large Venue manager or operator.

The Exhibit Server is not a persistent storage solution it preferably works with the Service Cloud that continues to deliver critical services such as the Cypher Key Repository of the Key Vault Cypher Key Activation Codes and general log traces and history for external audits. Hence a network connection to the Service Cloud is required to obtain Cypher Keys from the Key Vault when a new higher value digital content item is desired to be displayed.

The Exhibit Server also preferably incorporates an ingestion engine to provide the capability to capture new digital media content items and store them locally. The user has the option to keep the ingested digital media and metadata in the Service Cloud or stored in an optional local VSSS like storage unit . However encryption keys and other security services are still provided by the Service Cloud at all time. The Exhibit Server provides other services such as catalog search playlist editor and usage report generator to facilitate deployment and management of medium to large size digital art exhibit. A specially designed mobile app connected to the local Exhibit Server facilitates setting up configuring operating and managing a complete digital art exhibit.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular feature or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims.

