---

title: Content access authentication for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol
abstract: A technology that is operable to authenticate content access for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) (DASH) is disclosed. In one embodiment, a client device is configured with circuitry to communicate, to a content server, a request for a media presentation description (MPD). An MPD message is received from the content server indicating one or more content authorization elements to access content at the content server. A request for authorization of the client device to access content at the content server is communicated to an authorization server, when the client device is configured to perform the content authorization elements in the MPD message. An authorization message is received from the authorization server. A content request message requesting one or more DASH segments is communicated to the content server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497180&OS=09497180&RS=09497180
owner: Intel IP Corporation
number: 09497180
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140916
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 893 792 filed Oct. 21 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 898 425 filed Oct. 31 2013.

Digital multimedia capabilities can be incorporated into a variety of devices such as televisions broadcast systems computers tablet devices smartphones digital cameras gaming devices and teleconferencing devices. Multimedia content providers can implement compression and encoding techniques to communicate the digital multimedia data with the devices. When the digital multimedia data has been encoded the digital multimedia data may be packetized for transmission or storage. The content provider can packetize digital multimedia data to communicate the digital multimedia data using a variety of schemes such as transmission over a computer network or via an Internet connection using multimedia streaming.

In one example the devices can communicate digital multimedia data such as streaming video using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP streaming. The HTTP streaming based delivery of the multimedia streaming can include dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP DASH . DASH is an adaptive bitrate streaming technique for streaming multimedia content over the Internet. A device using DASH can divide or breakdown the digital multimedia content into a sequence of small HTTP based segments each containing a portion of the multimedia content. In one example each segment can contain a short interval of video streaming data for video streaming and playback.

A content provider can use DASH to formats content into segments fragments representations adaptations and or elements along with associated metadata such as media presentation description MPD files. The content provider can provide the DASH formatted multimedia content to devices via a content server. As the digital multimedia content is streamed to a device e.g. a DASH client the DASH client can select from one or more alternative next segments to download and play back based on communication network conditions. For example the DASH client can select a segment with a highest bit rate available that can be downloaded or streamed for playback without causing stalls or rebuffering events in the playback. As a content provider communicates the DASH formatted digital multimedia content to device the content provider needs to verify the device or user of the device receiving the digital multimedia content is authorized to receive the digital multimedia content.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP streaming can be used as a form of multimedia content delivery of Internet video. In HTTP streaming a multimedia content file can be partitioned into one or more segments and delivered to a client using the HTTP protocol. One advantage of HTTP based content delivery of multimedia content is a reliability of the delivery scheme and a simplicity of deploying the delivery mechanism due to a broad adoption of both HTTP and HTTP s underlying protocols including transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP . Another advantage of HTTP based content delivery is to provide streaming services that avoid network address translation NAT and firewall traversal issues. HTTP based delivery or streaming can also provide the ability to use standard HTTP servers and caches instead of specialized streaming servers. HTTP based delivery can provide scalability due to minimal or reduced state information on a server side.

In one embodiment dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP DASH can be a HTTP streaming protocol. In DASH a media presentation description MPD metadata file can provide information on a structure and or versions of media content representations stored in the server including different bitrates frame rates resolutions or codec types. In addition the MPD metadata file can also indicate segment formats. The MPD metadata file can contain information on the initialization and media segments for a media player to ensure mapping of segments into a media presentation timeline for switching and synchronous presentation with other representations. In one example the media player can analyze an initialization segment to determine a container format and media timing information of the media segment. Based on the MPD metadata information that indicates the relation of the segments in forming a media presentation clients or client devices can request the segments using HTTP GET or partial GET methods. The client can fully control the streaming session. For example the client can manage an on time request and smooth playback of a sequence of segments and adjusting bitrates or other attributes e.g. react to changes of the device state or the user preferences .

A DASH client can receive multimedia content by downloading the segments through a series of HTTP request response transactions. DASH can enable dynamically switching between different bit rate representations of media content as the available bandwidth changes. Thus DASH can allow for fast adaptation to changing network and wireless link conditions user preferences and device capabilities such as display resolution the type of central processing unit CPU employed or memory resources available and so forth.

For example a web browser of the client can request multimedia content using a HTTP GET message . The web server can provide the client with a MPD for the multimedia content. The MPD can be used to convey an index of each segment and the segment s corresponding locations as shown in the associated metadata information . The web browser can pull media from the server segment by segment in accordance with the MPD as shown in . For instance the web browser can request a first fragment using a HTTP GET URL frag 1 req . A uniform resource locator URL or universal resource locator can be used to tell the web server which segment the client is to request . The web server can provide a first fragment i.e. fragment 1 . For subsequent fragments the web browser can request a fragment i using a HTTP GET URL frag i req where i is an integer index of the fragment. As a result the web server can provide a fragment i . The fragments can be presented to the client via a media decoder player .

In DASH a media presentation description MPD metadata file can provide information on a structure and different versions of media content representations stored in a web media server as illustrated in . The different versions of the media content representations can include different bitrates frame rates resolutions codec types or other similar types of information. In addition DASH can also specify the segment formats which can contain information on initialization and media segments for a media engine to ensure mapping of segments into a media presentation timeline for switching and synchronous presentation with other representations. Based on the MPD metadata information which describes the relationship of the segments and how the segments form a media presentation a client can request the segments using an HTTP GET message or a series of partial GET messages. The client can control the streaming session such as managing an on time request and smooth play out of a sequence of segments or potentially adjusting bitrates or other attributes to react to changes of a device state or a user preference.

DASH can include a segment authentication framework for verifying an origin of content and authenticating content using digital signatures or digests for all DASH segment types. In one embodiment digital signatures or digests can be provided for media segments and sub segments an initialization phase an index or bitstream switching segments. In another embodiment the segment authentication framework can calculate a digital signature or a digest of an unencrypted segment and store the value externally.

An MPD interface can provide URL templates for a DASH client to retrieve the digital signatures or digests using HTTP or HTTPS. When the DASH client has retrieved the digital signatures or digests using the HTTP or HTTPS the DASH client can also locally calculate the digital signatures or digests for unencrypting a segment and or a sub segment. In one embodiment the DASH client can compare the local digital signatures or digests with the retrieved digital signatures or digests and determine when the local digital signatures or digests match the retrieved digital signatures or digests. In another embodiment when the local digital signatures or digests match the retrieved digital signatures or digests the DASH client can access the segments or sub segments. In another embodiment when the local digital signatures or digests do not match the retrieved digital signatures or digests the DASH client can reject the segments or sub segments.

In one embodiment segment authentication can be used independent of any content protection schemes. In another embodiment segment authentication can be used on unencrypted segments or on encrypted segments such as segments encrypted using a digital rights management DRM system. In one example the MPD can include a ContentDigest element that provides a template for constructing a URL used for downloading a digest for a selected segment or sub segment. In another example the MPD can include a ContentSignature element to provide a URL for key acquisition and a template for constructing a URL. In another example the URL can be used for downloading a signature for a selected segment or sub segment. In another example the MPD can include a ContentAuthentication descriptor to declare an authentication framework and communicate the digest and signature URLs. In another example a SHA 256 digest can be used for content authentication and can be identified by a URN urn mpeg dash sea sha256. In another example a HMAC SHA1 signature can be used for content authentication and can be identified by an urn mpeg dash sea hmac sha1.

To protect content copyright and satisfy licensing obligations content and service providers may restrict access to content and limit viewing times. Client authentication can be used to control access by a user or a group of users to a specific resource or selected content of a content server. In one example authentication keys for certain types of restricted material such as copyrighted material or pay per view content may only be distributed to authorized users. In another example authentication keys for content with selected rating information such as G PG PG 13 or R rated movies may only be distributed to authorized users e.g. used for parental control of the content. In one embodiment a client specific authentication key can be delivered to selected users and only the selected users with the correct authentication key information can access the content.

In one embodiment a DASH player can have selected modes that enable and or restrict playing of DASH content identified by one or more authentication keys. In another embodiment a client specific authentication key can be inserted as a parameter within an access URL by a service platform. In one example the client specific authentication key can be verified by a delivery server or content server before providing content. In another example client specific URLs can be generated when a DASH client inserts various parameters in a query portion of one or more media segment URLs. In another example authentication keys used to generate media segment URLs from MPD URLs can be communicated to DASH clients using the MPD. In one embodiment authorization and or authentication protocol information and initialization parameters such as authorization server URLs can be provided to the DASH client to initiate authorization and or authentication procedures.

In one embodiment client authentication can be used to determine that selected users or clients are following selected procedures to access and or use content. In another embodiment DASH can be an open platform. In another embodiment a content provider or an advertiser with advertisements inserted into content of a content provider may desire to restrict delivery of content to trusted content players or clients that will perform selected actions such as content players that will display the advertisements. In one example generic or hacked applications can identify and skip advertisements e.g. server inserted ads can be identified and skipped using similar or the same methods as broadcast systems use for inserting advertisements. In one configuration client authentication can be used to verify selected actions of clients e.g. client behavior such as the client not skipping advertisements in content accessed by the client. In another configuration digital rights management DRM schemes can be used to authenticate or verify the selected actions are performed. In another configuration client authentication can be used to authenticate or verify the selected actions are performed when DRM schemes are not used. In another configuration client authentication can be used in combination with DRM schemes to authenticate or verify the selected actions are performed. Traditionally when DRM schemes are not used access to content can be restricted based on an authorization level of a client but the content protection is limited. In one example traditionally with no DRM scheme while actions of a selected content application e.g. a content player can be verified when content is downloaded from a content server there is no protection for the downloaded content. In this example the client performing selected actions such as no skipping inserted commercials cannot be verified.

In one embodiment when a service provider authenticates the client requesting to access selected content the service provider can authorize playback of the content by delivering a key or token to download and or decrypt content segments. In another embodiment only trusted clients that have the decryption key s provided by the service provider are authorized to decrypt and play the selected content.

In one example of authentication of selected activities of a client an operator may desire to deliver ad supported television content to DASH clients that are trusted to play ads according to activity rules. In one embodiment the activity rules can include not skipping advertisements using a fast forward mode for advertisements that have not been previously played. In this example to access the content a DASH client can request an MPD that includes authentication information for authenticating a DASH player. In one embodiment an authentication server can use server specific information or application specific information to identify DASH players that conform to the selected advertisement playback criteria or activity. The authentication server can then communicate a token for the DASH player to append to segment URLs to authorize requests at a content delivery network CDN . In one embodiment the token can be delivered from the server as a cookie or a query fragment on a redirect URL.

In one example of a content access authorization scheme a user can have a DASH capable client application that allows the user to watch DASH formatted content. In this example the user can be subscribed to mobile streaming service of a content provider that includes selected content such as movies or television shows in DASH format. An operator or service provider can restrict access for a movie on a content server of the operator or the service provider to authorized users to using an authentication scheme. When the user is subscribed to the mobile streaming service the DASH capable client application can be authenticated and the user can access the movie.

In another example of a content access authorization scheme a first user and a second user can each have DASH capable client applications that enable the first user and the second user to access and view DASH formatted content. In this example both the first user and the second user are subscribed to a mobile streaming service. In one embodiment the first user is subscribed to a premium streaming plan and the second user is subscribed to a basic streaming plan. In one configuration the mobile streaming service can be configured to provide DASH formatted content at different bitrates and or different resolution levels based on selected criteria such as a subscription level of a user. In one embodiment the premium streaming plan of the first user can enable the DASH capable client applications of the first user to access and receive streams at all bitrates and resolutions levels offered by the mobile streaming service. In another embodiment the basic streaming plan of the second user can restrict the DASH capable client application of the second user to only access content with selected bitrates or resolutions levels.

In one configuration the MPD can include one or more authentication and access authorization elements to access DASH content. In one embodiment the authentication and access authorization elements can include a ContentAuthorization descriptor declared at a MPD hierarchy level of a common adaptation set representation and sub representation attributes and elements.

In one embodiment the schemeIdUri attribute can provide information to enable a client to determine whether the client is eligible for authorization to play the protected content e.g. whether or not the client is a trusted client. In another embodiment the schemeIdUri attribute can be used in conjunction with an value and or other extension attributes and elements such as authentication system s content access authorization policies and or key distribution scheme s . In one example when a DASH client receives the MPD the DASH client can use the MPD to determine when the DASH client does not meet the content access authorization or trusted client authentication requirements.

Traditionally a DASH client can download content and then determine if the DASH client is configured to decrypt the content e.g. determine that the DASH client does not have decryption keys to decrypt the content. In one embodiment of the present invention when the DASH client does not meet content access authorization requirements or trusted client authentication requirements the DASH client can ignore content on a content server e.g. not download the content. In another embodiment when the DASH client does meet the content access authorization requirements or trusted client authentication requirements the DASH client can then initiate corresponding content access authorization protocols or trusted client authentication protocols to obtain the decryption keys that are necessary in order to be able to decrypt and access the content.

In one embodiment the ContentAuthorization element can be extended in a separate namespace to provide information specific to a content access authorization scheme e.g. particular key management systems or authentication methods . In another embodiment when multiple ContentAuthorization elements are present each ContentAuthorization element can describe a content access authorization scheme or trusted client authentication scheme that indicate a set of requirements for accessing and or displaying the content. In one example content access authorization and trusted client authentication at a MPD level can include Open Authentication Technical Committee OATC Online Multimedia Authorization Protocol OMAP Open Standard for Authorization OAuth 2.0 OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language SAML third generation partnership project 3GPP Generic Authentication Architecture GAA 3GPP Generic Bootstrapping Architecture GBA .

Another example provides functionality of circuitry of a client device operable to authenticate content access for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to communicate to a content server a request for a media presentation description MPD as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to receive from the content server an MPD message indicating one or more content authorization elements to access content at the content server as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to communicate to an authorization server a request for authorization of the client device to access content at the content server when the client device is configured to perform the content authorization elements in the MPD message as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to receive from the authorization server an authorization message as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the content server a content request message requesting one or more DASH segments as in block .

In one embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to receive from the content server the requested one or more DASH segments based on a content access authorization level of the client device. In another embodiment the content request message includes information from the authorization message indicating an authorization level of the UE to access the requested one or more DASH segments. In another embodiment the authorization message includes an authorization token for accessing selected content at the content server. In another embodiment the content request message includes the authorization token indicating an authorization level of the client device to access content of the content server. In another embodiment the authorization message includes a decryption key for decrypting selected content at the content server.

In one configuration the circuitry can be further configured to receive from the content server the requested one or more DASH segments and decrypt the one or more DASH segments from the content server using the decryption key. In another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to determine when the UE is authorized to access selected content at the content server using the MPD or determine when the UE is a trusted client using the MPD.

Another example provides functionality of circuitry of a content server operable to authenticate content access for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to receive from a client device a request for a media presentation description MPD as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the client device an MPD message indicating one or more content authorization elements for accessing content at the content server as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to receive from the client device a content request message requesting one or more DASH segments when the client device is configured to perform the content authorization elements in the MPD message as in block .

In one configuration the circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the client device the requested one or more DASH segments based on a content access authorization level of the client device. In one embodiment the content request message includes an authorization token indicating an authorization level of the client device to access content of the content server. In another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to receive from an authorization server an authorization notification indicating that the client device is authorized to access selected content at the content server. In another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to restrict or deny access by the client device to content at the content server when an authorization notification is not received from an authorization server.

In one example the MPD message includes information indicating a procedure for receiving authorization or authentication to access selected content at the content server. In another example the MPD message can include initialization parameters authorization protocol information or authentication protocol information for initiating an authorization procedure or an authentication procedure. In another example the initialization parameters the authorization protocol information or the authentication protocol information include a uniform resource locator URL of an authorization server to use for the procedure for authorization or authentication to access the selected content at the content server. In another example authentication elements or access authorization elements to access DASH content are included in a descriptor of the MPD declared at a MPD hierarchy level of a common adaptation set representation attributes and elements or a sub representation attributes and elements.

Another example provides functionality of product including a non transitory storage medium having stored thereon instructions that are adapted to be executed to implement a method of authenticating content access for dynamic adaptive streaming over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP DASH as in the flow chart in . The instructions of the product can be implemented as a method or as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can comprise receiving from a client device a request for authorization to access selected content at a content server when the client device is configured to perform the content authorization elements received at the client device in an MPD message as in block . The method can further comprise determining an authorization level of the client device to access the selected content at the content server as in block . The method can further comprise communicating to the client device an authorization message indicating the authorization level of the client device to access the selected content at the content server as in block .

In one embodiment the method can further comprise communicating to the content server an authorization notification indicating an authorization level of the client device to access the selected content at the content server. In another embodiment the authorization message includes a decryption key for the client device to decrypt selected content received from the content server. In another embodiment the method can further comprise determining that the client device is a trusted client device.

In another embodiment the method can further comprise determining the authorization level of the client device to access the selected content using open authentication technical committee OATC online multimedia authorization protocol OMAP open standard for authorization OAuth 2.0 organization for the advancement of structured information standards OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language SAML third generation partnership project 3GPP generic authentication architecture GAA or 3GPP generic bootstrapping architecture GBA .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements can be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station can also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within modules and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials can be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention can be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics can be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

