---

title: In-call command control
abstract: Systems and methods are described that provide both a network-based, e.g., cloud-based, and apparatus based in-call command control for dynamically performing user commands such as voice commands or gesture commands. The result allows for hands free operation of a calling system including one where the user is located separate from a base station. The systems and methods provide for recognizing both voice and gestural commands. The systems and methods further provide for dynamically filtering commands so that commands are not perceived by those participating in the call. Further, the systems and methods provide for notifying the user, who has given the command, regarding the performance of the requested command.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456176&OS=09456176&RS=09456176
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09456176
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140516
---
This patent application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 312 875 filed on Dec. 6 2011 entitled IN CALL COMMAND CONTROL which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to in call command control.

Communications systems networks and devices have seen an explosive growth in past few years and in the future are expected to see continuing growth with respect to applications services and or functionality provided to a user. One conventional communication device feature is providing both voice and video calling functionality. During a voice call conventional communication devices relay the voice of the user of the device to participants of the voice call. Similarly during a video call conventional communication devices relay a video image as well as the voice of the user of the device to participants of the video call. Should a user wish to connect an additional caller to a voice call or a video call the user can use physical inputs on the device to put the voice or video call on hold and call and connect the additional caller.

Additionally some conventional devices utilize a voice control or gesture control software such as a voice recognition or gestural recognition application that can perform commands based on specific auditory or gestural command. To utilize this application the user has to actively open or turn on the feature and cannot be participating in a call. For example the user can speak or gesture to make a call. The application can recognize the speech or gesture and perform the command i.e. make the call.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It may be evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details e.g. without applying to any particular networked environment or standard. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the embodiments in additional detail.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface service or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input and or output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. An article of manufacture can encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example or exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station and similar terminology refer to a wired or wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wired or wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point base station and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth. In addition the terms data flow data session and the like are also employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms.

As used herein the term to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Aspects or features of the subject innovation can be exploited in substantially any wired or wireless communication technology e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject innovation can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

The design of modern telecommunication devices and the way in which they are used during voice calls can make it inconvenient or downright difficult to operate them effectively. The use of popular hands free systems like wired and wireless headsets and Bluetooth links to in car systems can aggravate the problem further. When considering this issue in the context of conference calls the complexities involved can make this a herculean task for a novice. A user accessing a call through a blue tooth headset may not be near a base station to press buttons associated with in call commands such as placing a call on hold muting placing a second call etc.

Systems and method are disclosed herein that employ voice or gesture controls that operate various in call systems and functions. Calls can be passed through a system designed to recognize and implement voice commands or gesture commands for call functions. This system can exist within the circuit switched core for older technologies in the data packet core for new technologies it could be offered as a cloud based service or it could exist within a handset device itself.

Systems and methods disclosed herein can act directly on a call to implement the instructions. This can allow the system to filter the communication between the system and the user so it is not perceived by the other participant s on the call. This communication could be a user asking the system to put the current call on hold a user asking the system to merge two calls a user wishing to isolate multiple users in a conference call so as to engage in a discussion with a single participant the system informing the user of the identity of another incoming call etc. This system could enable the use of voice or gesture only multitasking.

Referring initially to there illustrated is an example in call command control system interacting with user user and user . User can send video or audio related to a call with users and . A portion of the video or audio can also be a voice or gesture command. Filter can filter the voice or gesture command and send the filtered audio or video to users and . It can be appreciated that filter can send differing audio or video feeds to users and respectively. For example user might give a voice command to isolate user . Filter can filter the voice command from being heard by user and . Filter and filter can then work in harmony to isolate a conversation between user and user that is not perceived by user . It can be appreciated that filter filter and filter need not be separate components as depicted in and can be for example a singular intelligent filter.

In another example user can put users and on hold and receive an incoming call . Filter can prevent user and user from perceiving user talking to an incoming call . In still another example user can merge the incoming call with user and user . Additional examples of a command can include self muting muting of other participants filtering speech while retaining background noise engaging in a discussion with a single conference call participant placing a call while maintaining a presence within a conference call informing the user of the identify of another incoming call drafting an email based on voice recognition sending an email drafting and sending an SMS message opening a web browser searching an email inbox etc. It can be appreciated that voice or gesture commands can be established for conceivably any network communication function or device function.

Similarly user and user can also send both video or audio related to the conversation as well as a voice or gesture command to in command control system . Filter and filter respectively can filter the voice or gesture command and send the audio or video related to the conversation to user . In call command control system can then perform the command given by user and filtered by filter . It can be appreciated that in call command control system can independently accept and perform commands for each user of the system simultaneously.

Referring now to there is illustrated an example system that can be used for in call command control. According to an aspect at least a portion of the system can reside within a network for example a cloud. As an example a cloud can include resources e.g. processing resource s data storage resource s etc. that can reside on premise or off premise at a service provider location. Moreover the cloud can be but is not limited to a public cloud a private cloud an inter cloud or a hybrid cloud. Typically users can opt in to utilize the in call command control system by adjusting appropriate privacy settings.

In call command control system can include a command recognition component that monitors a communication session between a set of user equipments for a command associated with a user equipment. For example command recognition component can include voice recognition capability wherein it actively monitors communication session for voice commands. It can be appreciated that communication session .

Communication session can contain two or more user equipments UE . A UE can include most any electronic communication device such as but not limited to most any consumer electronic device for example a tablet computer a digital media player a digital photo frame a digital camera a cellular phone a personal computer a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a laptop a gaming system etc. Further a UE can also include LTE based devices such as but not limited to most any home or commercial appliance that includes an LTE radio. It can be appreciated that the UE can be mobile have limited mobility and or be stationary.

In one embodiment voice commands can be identified by an action word associated with a user requesting a command. For example the word COMMAND can signify that a user is attempting to address the command recognition component and can be followed with a specific command request. A user wishing to place a call on hold may state COMMAND followed by HOLD . It can be appreciated that a word having no real world usage can be created and implemented as a command word in order to avoid a situation where command recognition component falsely identifies part of the conversation as a command. It can be further appreciated that many different possible implementations exist for allowing a user to make commands within communication session including in an alternate embodiment natural language processing to infer a requested action.

In addition to voice commands in one embodiment command recognition component can also recognize gesture commands. For example if the communication session is a video conference or a video call video associated with communication session can be analyzed using motion tracking algorithms to identify a user command made via gesture. For example a user covering their mouth with their hand can signify the user s desire to mute the conversation. In another example a swipe of the hand can signify a user s desire to place the call on hold. It can be appreciated that any number of gestural commands can be enacted and associated with specific commands.

In call command control system can also include a filter component that can dynamically filter the command from the communication session. For example for a voice command filter component can prevent the voice command from being perceived within communication session by filtering the voice command. In one embodiment a delay can be incorporated by in call command control system from users within communication session . For example the delay can allow command recognition component to recognize the command and filter component to filter the command prior to it being perceived within communication session . It can be appreciated that a command word can be chosen that has auditory onsets capable of being recognized by command recognition component faster than a delay imposed by in call command control system . In one embodiment background noise not related to a voice command can be retained by filter component . It can be appreciated that by retaining background noise other participants of communication session may not perceive that a user has issued a command that has been filtered.

Filter component can also filter gestural or voice commands from communication session that is a video call. It can be appreciated that one embodiment filter component can filter both gestural commands and voice commands or unrelated speech occurring during a gestural command. For example a participant in communication session should not perceive someone speaking i.e. giving a voice command within a video call without hearing words. Alternatively a participant in communication session should not perceive a command gesture intended for in call command control system .

In one embodiment a static image can be recorded by filter component prior to the gestural command or voice command. Filter component can display the static image instead of the live or delayed video containing a user command. In one embodiment the static image can be recorded immediately prior to the recognition of a command by command recognition component to minimize the potential that the command is perceived within communication session .

In another embodiment a video loop can be recorded prior to a gesture command or voice command. Filter component can then display the video loop instead of the live or delayed video containing a user command. It can be appreciated that the video loop can be recorded immediately prior to the recognition of a command by command recognition component to minimize the potential that the command is perceived within communication session . It can be appreciated that a static image shown to communication session may be detected by participants of communications session . A video loop instead may be a better filter in those circumstances. It can be further appreciated that a background in a video call can dictate whether a static image or a video loop may be the best implementation. For example filter component can detect movement levels within a video loop and if the movement levels reach an undesirable threshold display a static image instead of the video loop.

In call command control system can also include a command performance component that can dynamically perform the command. For example command performance component can place calls put calls on hold isolate participants in a conference call look up information report information merge calls recite incoming message including SMS messages or emails send an SMS message send an email etc. It can be appreciated that the command component can perform any network functionality and is not dependent on the device that is connected. In one embodiment in call command control system resides on the cloud and can perform functions on the cloud that a device may not be able to perform on its own. For example a user connecting to communication session using a landline phone may issue a command to send an SMS message to a user even though the landline phone itself is incapable of sending such a message.

Command performance component can utilize data store containing commands in dynamically performing commands. For example commands may contain algorithms for performing specific commands. In addition commands may contain a list of all possible commands that a user may perform.

Consider an example scenario where a user with a mobile device such as a smartphone is participating in a conference call i.e. communication session while driving home from the office. The user can determine that the assistance of one of his peers is needed in order to resolve the issue being discussed. He can command the system to place his current call on hold. Command recognition component can recognize the command. Filter component can filter the command from communication session . Command performance component can then dynamically place the call on hold. The user s phone is capable of initiating a call via voice control so he asks his phone to initiate a call to his peer. Alternatively the user could command in call command control system to initiate a call to his peer. When his peer answers the phone the user explains the situation and then asks the in call command control system to merge the two calls together. Command recognition component can recognize the command. Filter component can filter the command from communication session . Command performance component can then dynamically merge the calls together. Without the in call command control system the user may have to fumble with his mobile device while trying to participate in a discussion putting the call on hold calling his peer and merging the calls. Additionally some jurisdictions may have laws making it illegal to use one s hands to perform operations such as placing a call on hold or merging calls while driving.

Turning now to there is illustrated an example in call command control system including a notification component that can be generate a notification to the user equipment within the communication session based on the command. For example the notification may alert the user requesting the performance of a command the success or failure of the performance. The notification can also include the return of requested information. In one embodiment the notification can be a brief tone indicating the successful performance of the command. In another embodiment the notification can be speech that states the result of the requested performance of the command. It is noted that not every command requires a notification to the user requesting the performance of the command. It can be further appreciated that the notification component can notify individual users within communication session without alerting other users within communication session .

In an example scenario a user on a conference call i.e. communication session is presenting a proposal with two of his peers to a group of potential investors. One of the users peers has not joined the call and rather than inconvenience potential investors he begins the presentation without him. Part way through the presentation he realizes that he does not have any notes for the quickly approaching slides his absent peer was to present. Knowing he can use the in call command control system he can pause and ask for thoughts and suggestions allowing the investors to speak and cleverly giving himself a chance to discuss this with his other peer. He can command the in call command control system to isolate himself and his peer so they can discuss this while still listening to the investors. Command recognition component can recognize the command. Filter component can filter the command from communication session . Command performance component can then dynamically isolate the user and his peer. The user can then ask his peer to run to the office of their absent colleague and retrieve his notes so they can present his slides. The user then commands in call command control system to return them to the conference call. Command recognition component can recognize the command. Filter component can filter the command from communication session . Command performance component can then dynamically return them to the conference call where the user can ask a few questions to buy some time. The notification component can alert him that he has a voice message from his peer that ran to fetch the notes. He can then command the in call command control system to play the message while the investors are talking. Filter component can filter the command from communication session . Command performance component can then dynamically play the message solely to the user. The message informs him that the notes were not in the office but that he had spoken with the absent peer and that the absent peer was just arriving and would join the conference call shortly. He then commands in call command control system to return him to the conference call where he asked a few more questions to buy some time. The absent peer joined the call and was able to present his portion of the presentation. Without the system and method presented in this disclosure this would be difficult to accomplish without the investors detecting something was amiss thereby potentially causing them to rethink their investment.

Turning now to there is illustrated an example in call command control system using communication channels associated with call participants. Devices and are connected to communication session via separate communication channels. Each communication channel can be associated with a participant of communication session . Command recognition component can independently monitor each communication channel for commands. Filter component can dynamically filter commands based on the channel that gave the command and the command given. Command performance component can then perform commands such as for example merging calls or isolating calls using the communication channels. It can be appreciated that by using individual communication channels in call control system can selectively control what each participant to communication session hears or views.

Turning now to there is illustrated an example apparatus capable of participating in a communication session while using in call command control. The apparatus can be a UE. A communications component can generate a communication session between a user of the apparatus and a set of participants. The communication session can be a conference call between UE UE and UE . UE and UE can connect to communication session using a femtocell . In one embodiment communications component can function independently to dynamically adjust the information sent from apparatus to communication session . In an alternative embodiment communications component can function together with filter component described below to dynamically adjust the information sent from apparatus to communication session .

A command recognition component can monitor the communication session for a command by the user. For example command recognition component can include voice recognition capability wherein it actively monitors the user of apparatus of for voice commands.

In one embodiment voice commands can be identified by an action word associated with a user requesting a command. For example the word COMMAND can signify that a user is attempting to address the command recognition component and can be followed with a specific command request. A user wishing to place a call on hold may state COMMAND followed by HOLD . It can be appreciated that a word having no real world usage can be created an implemented as a command word in order to avoid a situation where command recognition component falsely identifies part of the conversation as a command. It can be further appreciated that many different possible implementations exist for allowing a user to make commands including in an alternate embodiment natural language processing to infer a requested action.

In addition to voice commands in one embodiment command recognition component can also recognize gesture commands. For example if the communication session generated by communications component is a video conference or a video call video associated with communication session can be analyzed using motion tracking algorithms to identify a user command made via gesture. For example a user covering their mouth with their hand can signify the user s desire to mute the conversation. In another example a swipe of the hand can signify a user s desire to place the call on hold. It can be appreciated that any number of gestural commands can be enacted and associated with specific commands.

A filter component can dynamically filter the command from the communication session. For example for a voice command filter component can prevent the voice command from being perceived within communication session by filtering the voice command. In one embodiment a delay can be incorporated by communications component in sending voice or video data to communication session . For example the delay can allow command recognition component to recognize the command and filter component to filter the command prior to it being sent to communication session . It can be appreciated that a command word can be chosen that has auditory onsets capable of being recognized by command recognition component faster than a delay imposed by communication component . In one embodiment background noise not related to a voice command can be retained by filter component . It can be appreciated that by retaining background noise other participants of communication session may not perceive that a user has issued a command that has been filtered.

Filter component can also filter gestural or voice commands from being sent to communication session where the communication session is a video call video conference or the like. It can be appreciated that filter component can filter both gestural commands and voice commands or unrelated speech occurring during a gestural command. For example UE UE and UE should not perceive a user of apparatus speaking i.e. giving a voice command within a video call without hearing words. Alternatively UE UE and UE should not perceive a user of apparatus giving a command gesture.

In one embodiment a static image can be recorded by filter component prior to the gestural command or voice command. Filter component independently or in conjunction with communications component can display the static image instead of the live or delayed video containing a user command. In one embodiment the static image can be recorded immediately prior to the recognition of a command by command recognition component to minimize the potential that the command is perceived within communication session .

In another embodiment a video loop can be recorded prior to a gesture command or voice command. Filter component independently or in conjunction with communications component can then display the video loop instead of the live or delayed video containing a user command. It can be appreciated that the video loop can be recorded immediately prior to the recognition of a command by command recognition component to minimize the potential that the command is perceived within communication session . It can be appreciated that a static image displayed within communication session may be detected by UE UE or UE . A video loop instead may be a better filter in those circumstances. It can be further appreciated that a background in a video call can dictate whether a static image or a video loop may be the best implementation. For example filter component can detect movement levels within a video loop of apparatus and if the movement levels reach an undesirable threshold display a static image instead of the video loop.

A command performance component can dynamically perform the command. For example command performance component can place calls put calls on hold look up information report information merge calls recite incoming messages including SMS messages or emails send an SMS message send an email etc. For example a user of apparatus on a call with UE UE and UE can issue a command to connect to UE . The user can hold a side conversation with UE and later the user can merge its call with UE into communication session with UE UE and UE .

Command performance component can utilize data store containing commands in dynamically performing commands. For example commands may contain algorithms for performing specific commands. In addition commands may contain a list of all possible commands that a user may perform.

Turning now to there is illustrated an example apparatus capable of participating in a communication session while using in call command control including a notification component that can generate a notification to the user within the communication session based on a command. For example notification component can alert the user requesting the performance of a command the success or failure of the performance. The notification can also include the return of requested information. In one embodiment the notification can be a brief tone indicating the successful performance of the command. In another embodiment the notification can be speech that states the result of the requested performance of the command. It can be appreciated that every command need not require a notification to the user requesting the performance of the command. It can be further appreciated that notification component can notify the user without the notification being perceived by UE UE UE or UE within communication session .

Moreover various acts have been described in detail above in connection with respective system and apparatus diagrams. It is to be appreciated that the detailed description of such acts in the prior figures can be and are intended to be implementable in accordance with the following methods.

Turning now to there is illustrated example method for in call command control. At the method provides for monitoring by a network entity a communication session between a set of user equipments to identify a command associated with a user equipment. It can be appreciated that the network entity can be either hardware or software. At in response to identification of the command the method provides for dynamically filtering the command from the communication session and at performing the command.

Turning now to there is illustrated example method for in call command control including user notification. At the method provides for monitoring by a network entity a communication session between a set of user equipments to identify a command associated with a user equipment. At in response to identification of the command the method provides for dynamically filtering the command from the communication session and at performing the command. At a user of the user equipment can be notified based on the performance of the command.

Turning now to there illustrated is a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods in accordance with an embodiment. Computer which can be for example part of the hardware of a component includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

It can be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be noted that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information into computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera cell phone smartphone tablet computer etc. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus by way of interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port a universal serial bus USB an infrared port a Bluetooth port an IP port or a logical port associated with a wireless service etc. Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected by way of communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL . As noted below wireless technologies may be used in addition to or in place of the foregoing.

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

Now turning to such figure depicts an example GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture that can employ the disclosed communication architecture. In particular the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture includes a GSM core network a GPRS network and an IP multimedia network . The GSM core network includes a Mobile Station MS at least one Base Transceiver Station BTS and a Base Station Controller BSC . The MS is physical equipment or Mobile Equipment ME such as a mobile phone or a laptop computer that is used by mobile subscribers with a Subscriber identity Module SIM . The SIM includes an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI which is a unique identifier of a subscriber. The MS includes an embedded client that receives and processes messages received by the MS . The embedded client can be implemented in JAVA and is discuss more fully below. It can be appreciated that MS can be substantially similar to UE and include functionality described with respect to UE in systems .

The embedded client communicates with an application e.g. application s that provides services and or information to an end user. Additionally or alternately the MS and a device can be enabled to communicate via a short range wireless communication link such as BLUETOOTH . As one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize there can be an endless number of devices that use the SIM within the MS to provide services information data audio video etc. to end users.

The BTS is physical equipment such as a radio tower that enables a radio interface to communicate with the MS . Each BTS can serve more than one MS. The BSC manages radio resources including the BTS. The BSC can be connected to several BTSs. The BSC and BTS components in combination are generally referred to as a base station BSS or radio access network RAN .

The GSM core network also includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC performs a switching function for the network. The MSC also performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC provides a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . In other words the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database or component s that comprises administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR also includes the current location of each MS. The VLR is a database or component s that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR contains information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. In one aspect the BEX system can obtain user related data from the HLR and or the VLR . The AuC provides the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR stores security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push e.g. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router is provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages. The notification component e.g. and and the command recognition component e.g. and can track SMS messages sent to and or from the MS .

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS sends a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information is then sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR is updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update also is performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update is periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network is logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN controls the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN also keeps track of individual MS s locations security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC communicates cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN provides a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN provides interworking functionality with external networks and sets up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN . When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to an external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN . In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services can be used in parallel. A GPRS network can be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM1 NOM2 and NOM3 . A network operation mode of a GPRS network is indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages dictates a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS can be common to the GSM network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF can also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF can contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSS s are present. The S CSCF performs the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF also decides whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS also communicates to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS . The MME provides authentication of a user by interacting with the HSS in LTE networks.

The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF provides interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also controls the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice . The MGW also communicates with a PSTN network for TDM trunks. In addition the MGCF communicates with the PSTN network for SS7 links. According to an embodiment the in call command system and can be implemented within and or communicatively coupled to the GSM network the GPRS network the IP multimedia network and or the IP networks .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database cache and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of the present specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the present specification but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present specification are possible. Accordingly the present specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

