---

title: Thermal ink jet ink composition
abstract: A thermal ink jet ink composition include a volatile organic solvent, a binder resin, a dye, a humectant in an amount from 1% to 40% by weight of the ink composition, and an additive for extending the decap time. The additive is present in an amount greater than 0.01% by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The additive is selected from fluorinated surfactants, ionic surfactants, and nonionic surfactants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09296911&OS=09296911&RS=09296911
owner: Videojet Technologies Inc.
number: 09296911
owner_city: Wood Dale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 496 531 filed Mar. 16 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 920 552 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 371 from PCT Application No. PCT US2010 050655 filed in English on Sep. 29 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 247 316 filed Sep. 30 2009 the disclosures of all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Thermal ink jet TIJ print heads produce ink droplets from thermal vaporization of the ink solvent. In the jetting process a resistor is heated rapidly to produce a vapor bubble which subsequently ejects a droplet from the orifice. This process is extremely efficient and reproducible. Modern TIJ print heads for industrial graphics applications are capable of generating uniform drops of 4 pL or smaller in volume at frequencies of 36 kHz or greater. Typical commercial TIJ devices are specifically designed to vaporize water or solvents that have physical properties close to those of water e.g. high boiling point large heat capacity low molecular weight .

Although TIJ printing systems have been available for over 30 years most of the commercial inks available for thermal ink jet systems have been water based i.e. they contain more than 50 water. Such aqueous inks have one or more drawbacks such as long ink dry times or poor adhesion to semi porous or non porous substrates. Since around 2009 an increasing number of solvent based TIJ inks have been proposed or introduced with varying degrees of success. These formulas have performance and shelf life limitations due to material incompatibility with traditional thermal ink jet cartridges.

There is a desire for inks with attractive performance characteristics such as short dry times long decap times and good adhesion when using a TIJ system to print onto semi porous and non porous substrates.

The invention provides a thermal ink jet ink composition including a volatile organic solvent a binder resin a dye a humectant and an additive for extending the decap time. The thermal ink jet ink composition may provide increased decap time and short dry times.

In an embodiment a thermal ink jet ink composition includes one or more volatile organic solvents one or more binder resins one or more dyes a humectant in an amount less than 40 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition and an additive for extending thedecap time. The additive is present in an amount greater than 0.1 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The additive is selected from plasticizers surfactants aliphatic hydrocarbons drying oils and mixtures thereof. The additive does not phase separate from the ink jet composition during application of the ink to a substrate in thermal ink jet printing.

In another embodiment a method for printing images on a substrate with a thermal ink jet printer includes directing a stream of droplets of a thermal ink jet ink composition to a substrate. The ink composition includes one or more volatile organic solvents one or more binder resins one or more dyes a humectant in an amount less than 40 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition and an additive in an amount greater than 0.1 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The additive is selected from plasticizers surfactants aliphatic hydrocarbons drying oils and mixtures thereof. The ink droplets are allowed to dry thereby printing an image on the substrate. The decap time of the ink is greater than 2 minutes.

In another embodiment a thermal ink jet ink composition includes one or more volatile organic solvents one or more binder resins one or more dyes a humectant in an amount less than 40 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition and an additive for extending the decap time. The additive is present in an amount greater than 0.01 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The additive is selected from nonionic surfactants and ionic surfactants.

In another embodiment a thermal ink jet ink composition includes a volatile organic solvent a binder resin wherein the binder resin is present in an amount from 0.3 to 8 by weight of the ink composition a dye a humectant in an amount from 1 to 40 by weight of the ink composition and an additive for extending the decap time of the ink composition. The additive is present in an amount less than 0.1 by weight of the ink composition. The additive is selected from perfluoropolyethers modified perfluoropolyethers glycol based perfluoroalkyl ethers perfluoroalkyl substituted polyethers and mixtures thereof. If water is present it is present in amount less than 10 by weight of the ink composition. The ink composition has a decap time of greater than 15 seconds in a thermal ink jet printer.

The thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention has one or more of the following features short dry times long decap times good adhesion to substrates safety and material compatibility. Decap time is defined as the amount of time a nozzle can remain dormant and then be fired again without detrimental effect on the droplet velocity weight or direction. Fluids with good material compatibility are defined as those which do not degrade the ability of the TIJ cartridge to fire for some commercially reasonable length of time. The thermal ink jet ink composition does not require heat assist e.g. thermal driers when printed on semi porous and non porous substrates.

The disclosure provides a thermal ink jet ink composition including volatile organic solvents humectants binder resins colorants and an additive.

In an embodiment the invention provides a thermal ink jet ink composition including one or more volatile organic solvents one or more humectants one or more binder resins and one or more dyes. The humectants are preferably present in an amount not more than 40 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The volatile organic solvents may be selected from C Calcohols C Cethers C Cketones C Cesters and mixtures thereof.

The thermal ink jet ink composition includes an additive to extend the decap time in a thermal ink jet printer. The additive is present in an amount greater than 0.01 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The additive preferably does not phase separate from the ink jet composition during application of the ink to a substrate in thermal ink jet printing. The additive may be selected from plasticizers ionic surfactants nonionic surfactants aliphatic hydrocarbons drying oils and mixtures thereof.

In accordance with an embodiment the volatile organic solvents may be selected from C Calcohols C Cethers C Cketones C Cesters and mixtures thereof. Examples of C Calcohols include methanol ethanol 1 propanol and 2 propanol. Examples of C Cethers include diethyl ether dipropyl ether dibutyl ether and tetrahydrofuran. Examples of C Cketones include acetone methyl ethyl ketone and cyclohexanone. Examples of C Cesters include methyl acetate ethyl acetate and n butyl acetate. The organic solvents particularly alcohols ketones and esters have an attractive feature that they penetrate semi and non porous substrate surfaces more readily than water based inks thus reducing dry time and improving adhesion. One or more volatile organic solvents may be present. In particular embodiments the thermal ink jet ink composition includes as the volatile organic solvent s methyl ethyl ketone a blend of methyl ethyl ketone and methanol or a blend of methyl ethyl ketone and ethanol as the primary jetting solvent.

The one or more volatile organic solvents may be present in any suitable amount for example in an amount 50 or more about 60 or more about 70 or more about 80 or more or about 90 or more by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. In an embodiment the one or more volatile organic solvents may be present in an amount from 50 to about 99 preferably from about 60 to about 97 and more preferably from about 80 to about 95 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The thermal ink jet ink composition may optionally include water in a suitable amount e.g. up to 49 by weight up to about 25 by weight or up to about 10 by weight up to about 5 by weight or up to about 2 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

The thermal ink jet ink composition may include any suitable colorant or colorants which may be dye or pigment. In an embodiment of the invention one or more dyes are employed as the colorant wherein the one or more dyes are selected from acid dyes basic dyes solvent dyes reactive dyes disperse dyes mordant dyes and any combination thereof. Examples of solvent dyes include naphthol dyes azo dyes metal complex dyes anthraquinone dyes quinoimine dyes indigoid dyes benzoquinone dyes carbonium dyes naphthoquinone dyes naphthalimide dyes phthalocyanine dyes and perylene dyes. One or more colorants may be present.

For example the thermal ink jet ink composition can include one or more dyes selected from C.I. Solvent Yellow 19 C.I. Solvent Yellow 21 C.I. Solvent Yellow 61 C.I. Solvent Yellow 80 C.I. Solvent Orange 1 C.I. Orange 37 C.I. Orange 40 C.I. Solvent Orange 54 C.I. Solvent Orange 63 C.I. Solvent Red 8 Solvent Red 49 C.I. Solvent Red 81 C.I. Solvent Red 82 C.I. Solvent Red 84 C.I. Solvent Red 100 C.I. Acid Red 92 C. I. Reactive red 31 Orient Pink 312 C.I. Basic Violet 3 C.I. Basic Violet 4 C.I. Solvent Violet 8 C.I. Solvent Violet 21 C.I. Solvent Blue 2 C.I. Solvent Blue 5 C.I. Solvent Blue 11 C.I. Solvent Blue 25 C.I. Solvent Blue 36 C.I. Solvent Blue 38 C.I. Solvent Blue 55 C.I. Solvent Blue 70 C.I. Solvent Green 3 C.I. Solvent Black 3 C.I. Solvent Black 5 C.I. Solvent Black 7 C.I. Solvent Black 22 C.I. Solvent Black 26 C.I. Solvent Black 27 C.I. Solvent Black 29 VALIFAST BLACK 3808 or ORASOL RLI C.I. Acid Black 123 C.I. Solvent Black 48 MORFAST BLACK 101 C.I. Oil Blue 613 and any combination thereof and preferably one or more dyes selected from C.I. Solvent Black 29 VALIFAST BLACK 3808 or ORASOL BLACK Rum C.I. Solvent Black 27 C.I. Solvent Black 48 C.I. Solvent Black 3 Oil Black 860 C.I. Basic Violet 3 C.I. Solvent Blue 38 C.I. Solvent Blue 70 C.I. Oil Blue 613 C.I. Solvent Red 49 ORIENT PINK 312 C.I. Solvent Orange 54 VALIFAST ORANGE 3210 and any combination thereof.

Any suitable pigment can be used for example one or more pigments selected from phthalocyanine blue carbon black mars black quinacridone magenta ivory black prussian blue cobalt blue ultramarine blue manganese blue cerulean blue indathrone blue chromium oxide iron oxides viridian cobalt green terre verte nickel azo yellow light green oxide phthalocyanine green chlorinated copper phthalocyanine burnt sienna perinone orange irgazin orange quinacridone magenta cobalt violet ultramarine violet manganese violet dioxazine violet zinc white titanium white flake white aluminum hydrate blanc fixe china clay lithophone arylide yellow G arylide yellow 10G barium chromate chrome yellow chrome lemon zinc yellow cadmium yellow aureolin naples yellow nickel titanate arylide yellow GX isoindolinone yellow flavanthrone yellow yellow ochre chromophthal yellow 8GN toluidine red quinacridone red permanent crimson rose madder alizarin crimson vermilion cadmium red permanent red FRG brominated anthranthrone naphthol carbamide perylene red quinacridone red chromophthal red BRN chromophthal scarlet R aluminum oxide bismuth oxide cadmium oxide chromium oxide cobalt oxide copper oxide iridium oxide lead oxide manganese oxide nickel oxide rutile silicon oxide silver oxide tin oxide titanium oxide vanadium oxide zinc oxide zirconium oxide and any combination thereof.

In embodiments the pigments are selected from azo pigments phthalocyanine pigments quinacridone pigments dioxazine pigments isoindolinone pigments metal oxide pigments carbon black and any combination thereof.

The pigments may have any suitable particle size for example from about 0.005 micron to about 15 microns preferably from about 0.005 to about 1 micron and more preferably from about 0.01 to about 0.3 micron.

In any of the embodiments above the colorant dye or pigment may be present in an amount from about 0.01 to about 10 preferably from about 0.5 to about 7 and more preferably from about 1 to about 5 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

In any of the embodiments above any suitable humectant can be used. Preferably humectants have a boiling point greater than 150 C. greater than 200 C. or greater than 250 C. and or a relative evaporation rate less than 1.0 less than 0.9 less than 0.7 less than 0.4 less than 0.1 or less than 0.01. The humectants typically are solvents having one or more polar functional groups such as hydroxyl ether amide ester ketone and carbonate for example two functional groups which may be the same or different such as two hydroxyl groups or one hydroxyl group and one ether group. In an embodiment the one or more humectants are selected from polyol glycol ether diacetone alcohol 2 pyrrolidinone N methylpyrrolidinone ethyl lactate butyl lactate propylene carbonate 1 3 dimethyl 2 imidazolidindione and alkyl esters and any combination thereof.

For example the polyol may be selected from polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol poly ethylene co propylene glycol trimethylol propane ethylene glycol glycerin diethylene glycol triethylene glycol tripropylene glycol tetraethylene glycol pentaethylene glycol 1 2 propylene glycol 1 3 propanediol butylene glycol triethylene glycol 1 2 6 hexanetriol thiodiglycol hexylene glycol bis 2 hydroxyethyl ether 1 4 butanediol 1 2 butenediol 1 4 butenediol 1 3 butenediol 1 5 pentanediol 2 4 pentanediol 2 4 heptanediol 1 8 octanediol 1 10 decanediol 1 12 dodecanediol 1 4 cyclohexanediol 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol 1 2 bis hydroxymethyl cyclohexane 1 2 bis hydroxyethyl cyclohexane 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol 2 2 4 trimethyl 1 3 pentanediol neopentyl glycol pentaerythritol sorbitol mannitol and any combination thereof and preferably the polyol is selected from polyethylene glycol trimethylol propane ethylene glycol propylene glycol glycerin diethylene glycol tripropylene glycol and any combination thereof 

A preferred humectant is glycol ether for example a glycol ether selected from ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether diethylene glycol monomethyl ether diethylene glycol monoethyl ether propylene glycol n propyl ether propylene glycol t butyl ether propylene glycol n butyl ether dipropylene glycol methyl ether dipropylene glycol n propyl ether dipropylene glycol t butyl ether dipropylene glycol n butyl ether tripropylene glycol n propyl ether tripropylene glycol t butyl ether tripropylene glycol n butyl ether ethyl cellosolve methyl cellosolve polyethylene glycol monomethyl ether polypropylene glycol monomethyl ether methoxytriglycol ethoxytriglycol butoxytriglycol 1 butoxyethoxy 2 propanol and any combination thereof and preferably the glycol ether is selected from ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether Propasol M tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether diethylene glycol monomethyl ether diethylene glycol monoethyl ether propylene glycol monopropyl ether Propasol P and any combination thereof. In certain embodiments propylene glycol monomethyl ether is a preferred humectant. In other embodiments propylene glycol monopropyl ether is a preferred humectant.

Humectants may contribute at least in part to a feature of the thermal ink jet ink composition. Thus humectants may help lengthen decap times. In any of the embodiments the one or more humectants may be present in any suitable amount for example in an amount about 40 or less preferably about 30 or less about 25 or less about 20 or less about 15 or less or about 10 or less by weight of the ink composition. The one or more humectants may be present in an amount about 0.1 0.5 1 2 or 5 or more by weight of the ink composition. In an embodiment the one or more humectants may be present in an amount from about 0.1 to about 30 preferably from about 0.5 to about 15 and more preferably from about 1 to about 10 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

As discussed the thermal ink jet ink composition includes one or more binder resins. Any suitable binder resin soluble or dispersible can be employed preferably a solvent soluble binder resin. In an embodiment the thermal ink jet ink composition includes one or more binder resins selected from polyamide resins polyurethane resins rosin ester resins acrylic resins polyvinyl butyral resins polyesters phenolic resins vinyl resins polystyrene polyacrylate copolymers cellulose ethers cellulose nitrate resins polymaleic anhydrides acetal polymers polystyrene polybutadiene copolymers polystyrene polymethacrylate copolymers sulfonated polyesters aldehyde resins polyhydroxystyrene resins sulfonamide modified epoxy resins sulfonamide modified formaldehyde resins sulfonamide modified melamine formaldehyde resins and polyketone resins and any combination thereof and preferably one or more binder resins selected from cellulose nitrate resins polyamide resins rosin ester resins acrylic resins polyvinyl butyral resins vinyl resins polyhydroxystyrene resins sulfonamide modified epoxy resins and any combination thereof. An example of a suitable polyamide resin is ARIZONA 201 150 available from Arizona Chemical Company Jacksonville Fla. or COGNIS VERSAMID 756 available from Cognis GmbH Monheim am Rhein Germany both of which are alcohol soluble polyamide resins. Examples of wood rosin ester resins include UNIREZ 8115 available as a 40 solution in ethanol from Penn Color Doylestown Pa. which is a hydrogenated wood rosin ester STAYBELITE ESTER 10 available from Chem Central Corporation and SUPERESTER A 75 available from Arakawa USA. Examples of cellulose nitrate resins are NOBEL DHX 3 4 NOBEL DLX 3 5 or NOBEL DHX 5 8 available from Nobel Enterprises. Examples of polyvinyl butyral resins are PIOLOFORM BN18 available from Wacker Chemie AG and MOWITAL B20H available from Kuraray America Inc. Examples of acrylic and styrene acrylic resins are JONCRYL 611 682 and 586 available from BASF USA and PARALOID B 66 and B 72 available from Dow Chemical USA . Examples of vinyl resins include UCAR VYHH VMCH YMCA and VAGF available from Dow Chemical Company USA and VINNOL E15 45 H14 36 E15 45M and E16 40A available from Wacker Chemie AG Germany . Examples of polyhydroxystyrene resins include P HYDROXYSTYRENE BRANCHED GRADE PBS available from Hydrite Chemical Company. Examples of sulfonamide modified epoxy resins include ADPRO MTS available from Rit Chem .

The polymeric binder resin can be present in any suitable amount for example in an amount from about 0.1 to about 30 preferably from about 0.2 to about 15 and more preferably from about 0.3 to about 8 of the thermal ink jet ink composition. The binder resin may be present in an amount less than 15 12 10 8 or 5 by weight of the ink composition.

In a particular embodiment of the thermal ink jet ink composition the volatile organic solvent or solvents may be present in an amount from about 50 to about 95 by weight the colorant s dyes pigments or a combination thereof may be present in amount from about 1 to about 8 by weight the humectant or humectants may be present in an amount from about 1 to 30 by weight the binder resin or binder resins may be present in an amount from about 1 to about 8 by weight and the additive may be present in an amount from about 0.01 to 10 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

The thermal ink jet ink composition may further include one or more additives to extend decap time such as plasticizers ionic surfactants nonionic surfactants aliphatic hydrocarbons drying oils and mixtures thereof. The additive preferably does not phase separate from the ink jet composition during application of the ink to a substrate in thermal ink jet printing. Examples of ionic and nonionic surfactants include siloxanes silicones silanols polyether modified polydimethylsiloxanes polyether modified polysiloxanes ethoxylated alcohols propoxylated alcohols alcohol ethoxylates secondary alcohol ethoxylates polyoxyalkylenes unmodified sulfosuccinates monoester sulfosuccinates diester sulfosuccinates modified sulfosuccinates amine alkylbenzene sulfonates phosphate esters of an akylphenoxy polyethoxyethanol polyoxoalkylenes polyethylene glycol octylphenyl ethers alkylated tallow amines polyoxyalkyleneamines propoxylated poly oxypropylene diamines alkyl ether amines nonyl phenol ethoxylates ethoxylated fatty amines quaternized copolymers of vinylpyrrolidone and dimethyl aminoethyl methacrylate fluorinated organic acid diethanolamine salts perfluoropolyethers modified perfluoropolyethers glycol based perfluoroalkyl ethers perfluoroalkyl substituted polyethers fluorinated polyacrylates alkoxylated ethylenediamines polyethylene oxides polyoxyalkylene polyalkylene polyamines polyoxyalkylene polyalkylene polyimines alkyl phosphate ethoxylate mixtures phosphate esters polyglycol esters diester sulfosuccinates polyoxyalkylene derivatives of propylene glycol organic esters EO PO block copolymers acetylenic diols ethoxylated acetylenic diols propoxylated acetylenic diols acrylic block copolymers hydrogenated castor oil and polyoxyethylated fatty alcohols. A specific example of a suitable polymeric surfactant e.g. Silicone Fluid SF 69 available from Dow Corning Co Midland Mich. which is a blend of silanols and cyclic silicones. Additional examples of polymeric surfactants include DISPERSYBYK BYK Chemie USA SOLSPERSE e.g. SOLSPERSE 13940 which is a polymer fatty acid condensation polymer and EFKA EFKA Chemicals polymeric dispersants. Additional examples of non ionic surfactants include ETHYLAN NS 500LQ Akzo Nobel SURFYNOL 104 Air Products SERDOX ZTG 110 Elementis TERGITOL 15 S 7 Dow and MAKON DA 6 Stepan . Additional examples of ionic surfactants include ETHOPROPMEEN AkzoNobel G 3300 Stepan AEROSOL LF 4 AEROSOL WA 300 and AEROSOL OT 70 PG Air Products .

In any of the embodiments the surfactant additive may be present in an amount from about 0.01 to about 5.0 by weight preferably from about 0.05 to about 3 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition. When a fluorinated surfactant is used such as the above listed fluorinated organic acid diethanolamine salts perfluoropolyethers modified perfluoropolyethers glycol based perfluoroalkyl ethers perfluoroalkyl substituted polyethers fluorinated polyacrylates it has been found surprisingly and unexpectedly that even a small amount of fluorinated surfactant can improve the decap time of the ink composition. Thus the fluorinated surfactant may be present in an amount less than 0.1 by weight of the ink composition. In another embodiment the fluorinated surfactant may be present in an amount less than 0.05 or less than 0.03 by weight of the ink composition.

Examples of suitable plasticizers include phthalate plasticizers e.g. alkyl benzyl phthalates butyl benzyl phthalate dioctyl phthalate diisobutyl phthalate dicyclohexyl phthalate diethyl phthalate dimethyl isophthalate dibutyl phthalate and dimethyl phthalate esters such as di 2 ethylhexy adipate diisobutyl adipate glycerol tribenzoate sucrose benzoate polypropylene glycol dibenzoate neopentyl glycol dibenzoate dibutyl sebacate and tri n hexyltrimellitate and sulfonamide plasticizers such as PLASTICIZER 8 available from Monsanto Co. St. Louis Mo. which is n ethyl o p toluene sulfonamide.

In embodiments of the invention the plasticizer additive may be present in an amount from about 0.2 to about 5.0 by weight preferably from about 0.3 to about 3.0 and more preferably from about 0.5 to about 2.0 of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

Examples of aliphatic hydrocarbons that may be used as additives include cyclic or straight chain hydrocarbons either saturated or unsaturated. The aliphatic hydrocarbon additive may be present in an amount from about 0.1 to about 5.0 by weight preferably from about 0.5 to about 2 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

Examples of drying oils that may be used as additives include tung oil linseed oil walnut oil poppy seed oil and perilla oil. The drying oil additive may be present in an amount from about 0.1 to about 5.0 by weight preferably from about 0.5 to about 2 by weight of the thermal ink jet ink composition.

The thermal ink jet ink composition may include additional ingredients such as bactericides fungicides algicides sequestering agents buffering agents corrosion inhibitors antioxidants light stabilizers anti curl agents thickeners and other agents known in the relevant art. In an embodiment the ink composition is free or substantially free of antioxidants. The ink composition preferably includes no more than small amounts of water. In particular the ink composition may include less than 10 5 2 1 0.5 or 0.1 by weight water. The ink composition may be substantially free of water.

The thermal ink jet ink composition has one or more attractive features such as short unassisted dry times of printed alphanumeric or graphic images long decap times good adhesion to semi porous and non porous substrates and safety or material compatibility with one or more components of a thermal ink jet printer. For example embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition have a dry time of about 10 seconds or less such as 5 seconds or less 4 seconds or less or 2 seconds or less under ambient conditions. On porous substrates the dry times are shorter than in semi or non porous substrates. For example embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition have a dry time of about 1 second on porous substrates and less than about 5 seconds preferably less than about 2 seconds and more preferably less than about 1 second on semi porous substrates. The thermal ink jet ink composition preferably has a decap time of at least 15 seconds more preferably at least 30 seconds more preferably at least 1 minute 2 minutes or 5 minutes and most preferably at least 10 minutes when used in a thermal ink jet print head.

The thermal ink jet ink composition may have any suitable viscosity or surface tension. In embodiments of the invention the thermal ink jet ink composition has a viscosity of less than about 10 cPs preferably less than about 5 cPs and more preferably less than about 3 cPs for example a viscosity from about 1 to 4 or from about 1 to about 3 cPs at 25 C.

In embodiments of the invention the thermal ink jet ink composition has a surface tension from about 18 to about 50 mN m from about 20 to about 40 mN m or from about 22 to about 30 mN m at 25 C.

The thermal ink jet ink composition may be prepared by any suitable method. For example the chosen ingredients may be combined and mixed with adequate stiffing and the resulting fluid filtered to remove any undissolved impurities.

The present disclosure further provides a method for printing images on a substrate in a thermal ink jet printer comprising directing a stream of droplets of any of the embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition to a substrate and allowing the ink droplets to dry thereby printing images on a substrate. Any suitable substrate may be printed in accordance with the invention. Examples of suitable substrates include porous substrates such as uncoated paper semi porous substrates such as aqueous coated paper clay coated paper silica coated paper UV overcoated paper polymer overcoated paper and varnish overcoated paper and non porous substrates such as hard plastics polymer films polymer laminates metals metal foil laminates glass and ceramics. The paper substrates may be thin sheets of paper rolls of paper or cardboard. Plastics laminates metals glass and ceramic substrates may be in any suitable form such as in the form of bottles or containers plates rods cylinders etc.

Examples of polymer coating include a coating of polystyrene polyvinyl alcohol polyacryate polymethacrylate polystryrene or polyvinyl chloride. Examples of polymer film substrates include polyvinyl butyrals polyolefins polyvinyl chloride polyethylene terephthalate PETG polybutylene terephthalate PBT polyester polycarbonate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS copolymer polyvinyl fluoride polymer polyamides polyimides and cellulose. Plastics may be treated plastics e.g. chemical etch corona discharge flame plasma etc. or untreated plastics. Examples of metals include aluminum copper stainless steel and metal alloys. Examples of ceramics include oxides nitrides and carbides of metals.

The following Examples further illustrate the invention but of course should not be construed as in any way limiting its scope. The following Examples illustrate the preparation of an ink composition suitable for use in a thermal ink printer. In each case the ingredients were combined and mixed until all solid components were dissolved. The resulting mixture was filtered to remove any particulates and the ink composition was recovered. The ink composition was printed using a representative thermal ink jet printer on a variety of non porous substrates including glass aluminum polyethylene polypropylene foils polyester polyamide and polyvinyl chloride. The decap time was measured by one of two methods. Method 1 is by printing an image consisting of 100 vertical bars that were 1 dot wide for the full width of the nozzle array allowing the print head to remain idle for the specified period of time then reprinting the same image without wiping or other maintenance. The decap time is the maximum amount of time the print head can remain uncapped and fully recover within the first 20 of the vertical lines. Method 2 of measuring the decap time is by printing a standard alphanumeric image repeatedly between 10 and100 times allowing the print head to remain idle for a specified period of time then reprinting the same image without wiping or other maintenance. Method 1 was used for determining the decap time in Examples 1 4 below and Method 2 was used for determining the decap time in Examples 5 10 below. The decap time is the maximum amount of time the print head can remain uncapped and recover with a fully legible image. The drying time was measured by printing representative alphanumeric text and gently sliding a finger across the text every second or interval of seconds and observing when the image no longer smears.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 1 below. For the 5542 and 5543 samples N Ethyl O P Toluene Sulfonamide was used as an additive to increase decap time. Comparative Example A did not include N Ethyl O P Toluene Sulfonamide.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 1 second or less on semi porous and 5 seconds or less on aqueous coated surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Sample 5543 had a decap time of at least 30 seconds compared to 8 seconds for Comparative Example A.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 2 below. For the 5572 and 5573 samples a silicone surfactant was used as an additive to increase decap time. Comparative Example B did not include the silicone surfactant.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 1 second or less on semi porous surfaces and a drying time of 2.5 seconds on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. The images had acceptable print quality. Sample 5573 had a decap time of at least 2 minutes compared to 8 seconds for Comparative Example B.

The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 3 below. For the 5605 sample Magiesol 500 600 was used as an additive to increase decap time. Comparative Example C did not include Magiesol 500 600.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 1 second or less on semi porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. The images had acceptable print quality. Sample 5605 had a decap time of 5 to 10 minutes compared to 15 seconds for Comparative Example C.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 4 below. For the 5600 sample tung oil was used as an additive to increase decap time. Comparative Example D did not include tung oil.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 1 second or less on semi porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Sample 5600 had a decap time of at least 15 minutes compared to 30 60 seconds for Comparative Example D.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 5 below. Examples 6476 and 6481 demonstrated that decap performance of the ink composition was improved by the addition of SuperEster A 75 a wood rosin ester resin.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 2 seconds or less on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Samples 6476 and 6481 had a decap times of at least 1 minute compared to 20 seconds for Comparative Example E.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 6 below. The Fluorolink polymers used are modified perfluoropolyethers. Fluorolink S10 is a fluorosurfactant that is the reaction product of 3 triethoxysilyl 1 propanamine with ethyl esters of reduced polymerized oxidized poly tetrafluroethylene . Fluorolink A10P is a fluorosurfactant that is the reaction product of 1 octadecanamine with ethyl esters of reduced polymerized oxidized poly tetrafluroethylene . Fluorolink E10H is a fluorosurfactant that is an ethoxylated diol derivative of reduced polymerized oxidized poly tetrafluroethylene . Capstone FS 3100 is a a fluorosurfactant that is a partially fluorinated alcohol substituted glycol.

Surprisingly and unexpectedly Examples M 4 M 9 M 10 and M 11 all demonstrated that addition of 0.25 or less of modified PFPE esters improved decap times over Comparative Example F.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 4 seconds or less on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Samples M 4 M 9 M 10 and M 11 had decap times of at least 1 minute compared to 40 seconds for Comparative Example F. Comparative Example F did not contain a modified perfluoropolyether. It was unexpected that such a small amount of additive less than 0.1 by weight of the ink composition would dramatically improve the decap performance of the ink composition.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 7 below. Examples M 5 M 6 and M 8 demonstrated that decap was improved by addition of 0.25 of Fluorolink S10.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 5 seconds or less on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Samples M 6 and M 8 had decap times of at greater than 1 minute compared to 40 seconds for Comparative Example G. Comparative Example G did not contain a modified perfluoropolyether.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 8 below.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 3 seconds or less on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Samples PFPE 3 PFPE 8 and PFPE 9 had decap times of 50 seconds or longer compared to 30 seconds for Comparative Example H. Comparative Example H did not contain a modified perfluoropolyether.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 9 below. Trimethylolpropane and 1 6 hexanediol are polyols. Chemphos TC 310 is an alkylphenolethoxylate phosphate ester. Stepfac 8170 and 8171 are phosphate esters of an akylphenoxy polyethoxyethanol. Stepfac 8180 and 8181 are phosphate esters of an akyl polyethoxyethanol. Dextrol OC 22 is the free acid form of a nonylphenol ethoxylated phosphate ester. Dextrol OC 70 is the free acid form of a tridecyl alcohol ethoxylated phosphate ester.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 5 seconds or less on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Sample 13353 had a decap time of at least 5 minutes compared to 2 minutes for Comparative Example I. Comparative Example I did not contain any polyol sulfonate or phosphate ester additives.

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Tables 10a and 10b below. Stepan G 3300 is an amine alkylbenzene sulfonate. Stepan DA 6 Tergitol 15 S 7 and Tergitol 15 S 3 are alcohol ethoxylates. Ecosurf SA 4 is a mixture of ethoxylated and propoxylated C6 C12 alcohols. Ethylan NS 500LQ is a polyoxoalkylene. Efka 3236 is a modified polysiloxane. Byk 331 and Edaplan LA412 are polyether modified polysiloxanes. Serdox ZTG 110 is a polyglycol ester. Aerosol LF 4 WA 300 and OT 70PG are modified or unmodified sulfosuccinates. Efka 4340 is an acrylic block copolymer.

The printed images were found to have a drying time of 2 seconds or less on non porous surfaces. The images had excellent rub resistance and adhesion properties. Comparative Example I did not contain any amine alkylbenzene sulfonates alcohol ethoxylates ethoxylated and propoxylated C6 C12 alcohols polyoxoalkylenes modified polysiloxanes polyether modified polysiloxanes polyglycol esters modified sulfosuccinates unmodified sulfosuccinates or acrylic block copolymers. The additives in the Examples were found to provide decap times of at least 30 seconds which was longer than Comparative Example I

This example illustrates embodiments of the thermal ink jet ink composition of the invention. The materials employed in preparing the thermal ink jet ink composition their amounts and the formulation numbers are set forth in Table 11 below.

From the Examples above it can be seen the various additives may be used in the thermal ink jet ink compositions disclosed herein to extend the decap times in a thermal ink jet printer.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein may be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

