---

title: Call holding management
abstract: A system or a method may be provided that automatically distinguishes between a hold status and when someone live is talking on the phone. For example, the caller's phone may detect when the call holding has ended and a customer service representative is now actually on the line. The phone may alert the user to pick up the call at that time, such as utilizing a call-back mechanism. In an embodiment, the system may analyze and learn the various call holding music or recordings of call centers. The system may detect when the call holding music or recording ends in a telephone call and may alert the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571639&OS=09571639&RS=09571639
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09571639
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141229
---
The present invention generally relates to call holding and in particular to systems and methods for managing call holding.

With the proliferation of telecommunication many businesses and commercial activities are conducted by telecommunication. When customers call a merchant or a customer service center the customers may be put on hold in a queue due to the volume of incoming calls to the merchant or the customer service center. As such a customer may be put on hold for an unspecified amount of time before the customer can talk to a customer service representative. This unspecified wait time may be frustrating for the customer who has to continuously listen and wait on the phone. Thus there is a need for a system or a method that better manages call holding for the convenience of the customers.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to an embodiment a system or a method may be provided that automatically distinguishes between a hold status and when someone live is talking on the phone. For example the caller s phone may detect when the call holding has ended and a customer service representative is now actually on the line. The phone may alert the user to pick up the call at that time such as utilizing a call back mechanism. In an embodiment the system may analyze and learn the various call holding music or recordings of call centers. The system may detect when the call holding music or recording ends in a telephone call and may alert the user.

In an embodiment the call centers may implement a standard tone to indicate start and end of call holding. The caller s phone may detect the standard tones indicating the start or end of call holding and may alert the user. As such the user need not hold the phone during the call holding. Rather the user may set the phone down. When the call holding ends the system may notify the user by a notification such as by an audio notification or vibration which can be on the phone or another user device such as a second phone a wearable computing device e.g. glasses smart watch etc. and the like.

In an embodiment the system may provide advertisements such as video or audio advertisements to the user when the call holding is detected. As such specific advertisements or promotions may be shown to the user as the user is waiting. The system may also provide additional information about the call holding such as estimated wait time the number of callers in front of the user in the queue the number of callers behind the user in the queue and the like. The system also may apply to calls between peers when one user puts another user on hold.

In an embodiment the system may determine or customize advertisements or promotions for the user based on the user s profile such as the user s purchase history transaction history browsing history and the like. The user may be presented with the customized promotions or advertisements during the call holding.

In an embodiment the system may notify the user based on the user s notification preferences. The system may allow the user to designate how the user should be notified when the call holding is ended. In particular the user may be notified by another device such as a smart watch another mobile device or the like. As such the user need not stay with the phone during call holding.

System may include a user device a telecommunication device a cellular tower and a call holding management server in communication over network . A user may utilize user device to perform telephone communication via network . A user may utilize user device to initiate and receive telephone calls. A telecommunication device may be operated by a merchant a customer service center or a general telephone call receiver. Telecommunication device may be configured to receive telephone calls from the user device . The phone call may be routed through network . Network may be a Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN including various telephone lines fiber optic cables cellular networks communication satellites connected by switching routing centers. In some embodiments network may include an Internet Protocol IP network configured to facilitate Voice over IP VoIP communications. Call holding management server may provide call holding functions and features to the user device when the user is put on hold by the telecommunication device .

A telephone call may be initiated from user device . For example the user may dial a phone number of the telecommunication device at user device . Thus the telephone call may be designated for the telecommunication device . Network may route the telephone call through network to the telecommunication device . In an embodiment user device may be a cellular telephone and may be connected to cellular tower . Thus the telephone call from the user device may be routed to the telecommunication device via cellular tower .

User device telecommunication device and call holding management server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication in the system . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over network such as a user account for setting up a shopping list and or merchant sites for viewing and purchasing products and services. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network . User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device telephone number associated with user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a telephone communication service provider to associate user with a particular telephone account maintained by the telephone communication service provider.

User device may include a communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system . For example the communications application may be configured to manage and implement wired communication such as Ethernet communication and or telephone landline communication and wireless communication such as WiFi communication Bluetooth communication cellular voice and or data communication Near Field Communication NFC and the like.

User device also may include applications that collect location data using Global Positioning System GPS to identify a location of user device . User device may have a magnetometer configured to detect a moving or traveling direction of user device . Other means for collecting location data such as WiFi devices Near Field Communication NFC devices or the like also may be included in user device for determining a location of user device . Thus user device may determine a current location of user device and track a traveling direction of the user device based on the collected location data.

The telecommunication device may be maintained for example by a merchant a customer service center a company or any other person or organization who receives telephone calls. The telecommunication device may be configured to receive telephone calls. In an embodiment the telecommunication device may route telephone calls to appropriate persons or departments based on the request of the caller or based on an extension number entered by the caller. Telecommunication device may be configured to receive VoIP and or PSTN telephone calls.

Telecommunication device may include a call holding application . The call holding application may include hardware and or software configured to place incoming calls on hold. For example when the intended party for the telephone call is not available or is busy the call holding application may put the caller on hold. In an embodiment the call holding application may establish a queue if more than one callers are calling in for the same person or for the same telephone line. As such the calls may be answered in the order they are received.

Telecommunication device may include a call holding presentation database . The call holding presentation database may store various presentations and or content to be presented to the callers when the callers are put on hold. The presentations may include audio recordings music promotional recording and the like. When a caller is put on hold a presentation may be selected and played to the caller. The presentation may include music or advertisements. The presentation also may include announcements or notifications regarding the place or person the caller is calling.

Telecommunication device also may include a communications application with associated interfaces enables the telecommunication device to communicate within system . For example the communications application may be configured to manage and implement wired communication such as Ethernet communication and or telephone landline communication and wireless communication such as WiFi communication Bluetooth communication cellular voice and or data communication Near Field Communication NFC and the like.

Cellular tower may be operated by one or more telecommunication service providers. Cellular tower may be configured to manage communication for cellular telephone devices located within the cellular tower s broadcast range. Cellular tower may have access to network and may provide internet and or telephone services to cellular devices within their respective broadcast ranges. The user device may be located within the broadcast range of cellular tower and configured to facilitate cellular or data communication with cellular tower . Thus the user device may initiate and or receive telephone calls by connecting to the cellular tower .

Call holding management server may be operated by a call holding management service provider or by a call holding management software company. The call holding management server may include a communications application with associated interfaces that enable the call holding management server to communicate within system . For example the communications application may be configured to manage and implement wired communication such as Ethernet communication and or telephone landline communication and wireless communication such as WiFi communication Bluetooth communication cellular voice and or data communication Near Field Communication NFC and the like.

The call holding management server also may include an advertisement database configured to store various advertisements promotions or other types of presentations to be presented to users when they are put on hold. The presentation materials may be organized into different types interests categories and the like. Appropriate presentations may be selected for presentation to the users when they are put on hold based on the users demographics and interests.

The call holding management server may include a call holding routine database . The call holding routine database may store the respective holding routines of various merchants call centers customer service centers and any other persons or organizations that put callers on hold. The call holding routine database may include call holding routine profiles of various entities. Each call holding routine profile may include the name of the entity or organization the telephone number s routine call holding presentations and the like. Thus each call holding routine profile may store the presentations routinely played or presented to callers by the entity or organization when the callers are put on hold. The entity and or organization may have multiple routine presentations or may have different routine presentations for different sections or departments of the entity.

Call holding routine profiles also may include other call holding information such as average wait time of call holding average queue length pattern of call volume and the like. The call holding management server may obtain the call holding routine information from the various entities or organizations or may learn the routines from monitoring calls made to the entities or organizations. The call holding management may continuously learn and update the call holding routine profiles to reflect the most up to date call holding routines of various entities or organizations.

The call holding management server may provide call holding functions and features to the user at user device . For example the call holding management server may provide call holding routines to the user device to help the user device detect when the user is put on hold and when the call holding ends. The call holding management server also may provide advertisements or promotions to the user device to be presented to the user when the user is put on hold during a telephone call.

Call holding settings may have options for the user to choose whether the user wishes to turn on the call holding functions. The user may choose the types of presentation or music to be displayed or provided to the user at the user device during call holding. The user also may choose how the user should be notified when call holding ends such that the user may resume the telephone call at the user device . For example the user device may emit a particular audio sound visual signals vibrate or the like to notify the user that the call holding has ended. In another example the user device may communicate the notification to another device of the user such as the user s smart watch or laptop computer which may vibrate emit audio or visual signals or the like to notify the user.

At step the user device or the call holding management server may learn respective routine call holding music or recordings at various merchants call centers customer service centers and the like. In an embodiment merchants call centers customer service centers and other organizations that have call holding features may provide the call holding management server with their respective routine call holding music or recordings. These routine call holding music or recordings may be stored and archived in the respective call holding routine profiles at the call holding management server . In some embodiments the user device or the call holding management server may learn these routine call holding music or recordings by monitoring telephone calls of customers who are put on hold. Audio signal pattern recognition techniques may be used to analyze and recognize routine music or recordings presented during call holding. The system may analyze and establish an audio pattern signature for each routine call holding music or recordings. For example the audio pattern signature may include unique data points in audio signals such as the frequency and amplitude v. time in the audio signals of the routine music or recording. The audio pattern signature then may be used to recognize the respective routine call holding music or recordings.

In an embodiment various entities and organizations may agree upon a standard signal to indicate that the call is put on hold and another standard signal to indicate that the call holding has ended. The standard signals may be a unique sequence of audible sound which may or may not be heard by customers but may be detected by the user device or the call holding management center . Thus when the user device or the call holding management server detects the specific signals the user device or the call holding management server may determine when the call is being put on hold and when the call holding ends.

In an embodiment the call holding management server may implement an user interface for call center navigation. In particular the user may download a call holding application to user device that may provide the user interface for call center navigation. In this case the call holding management server may provide a standard communication protocol by data or voice communication for implementing various call center functions and features between the user device and the other party in the telecommunication. For example the user interface may allow the user to select a first option Press 1 for additional call holding functions select a second option Press 2 to hear promotions or advertisements select a third option Press 3 to hear or view queue information on the call holding select a fourth option Press 4 to hear or view weather sport news entertainment information or the like. Thus the call holding management server may implement additional call holding functions for a telecommunication between the user and the other party via the user interface. This may allow the user to have a seamless user experience in obtaining additional call holding features when the user is put on hold.

At step the user device or the call holding management server may set up an advertisement or content database which may store various audio video or information presentations to be presented to the user during call holding. The presentations may include music advertisements promotions news entertainment sports and any other information. The database may be organized into different types or categories of presentations. The system may allow the user to select or choose different types of presentations to be presented to the user during call holding.

At step the user device or the call holding management server may continue to receive and update various call holding features. The system may allow the user to manage various call holding features based on the user s preferences. The system also may continuously monitor and learn different routine call holding music or recordings of various merchants call centers customer service centers and the like. Thus routine call holding music or recordings may continuously be updated to reflect the most up to date routines of these organizations.

Accordingly the user device or the call holding management server may set up various call holding features for the user . Routine call holding music or recordings at various merchants call centers customer service centers and the like may be analyzed and learned by the system to better detect when the user is put on hold on a telephone call. Further the various call holding features and the routine call holding music or recordings may continuously be updated.

At step the user device or the call holding management server may monitor the telephone communication. In an embodiment the telephone communication may be monitored by the user device and any unique or notable occurrences during the telephone call may be communicated from the user device to the call holding management server . For example the user device may determine the telephone number of the other party such as by the caller identification function and may communicate the telephone number of the other party to the call holding management server .

Based on the telephone number the call holding management server may search in the call holding routine database to find call holding routines of the other party. The call holding routine database may hold a comprehensive list of entities or organizations that have various call holding routines. Once the call holding routine associated with the telephone number is found the call holding management server may forward the audio signal signature or routine music or recordings used by the entity or organization associated with the telephone number to the user device . In particular the unique audio signal patterns or signatures of the routine music or recordings may be communicated to the user device to be used to detect the start or end of call holding music or recordings during the telephone call. As such the user device need not store a substantial amount of information regarding various call holding routines of many entities or organizations.

In an embodiment the user device may store the routine call holding music or recordings of entities or organizations the user frequently calls. For example the user may frequently call the user s telecommunication service provider regarding phone bills. As such the user device may store the routine call holding music or recordings of the telecommunication service provider to detect when the user is put on hold by the telecommunication service provider or when the call holding has ended.

At step the user device or the call holding management server may monitor and detect whether call holding has occurred or whether the user has been put on hold by detecting when the call holding routine music or recording begins. In an embodiment the user device or the call holding management server may compare the audio communication occurring on the telephone call with the audio patterns of the routine call holding music or recordings. The system may detect that the user has been put on hold when the audio communication of the telephone call matches or substantially matches those of the audio patterns of the routine call holding music or recordings.

In an embodiment the system may detect when a conversation between the user and the other party has ended or when the user stops talking or is silent for an extended amount of time. For example the call holding music or recording may be a non verbal type recording. As such when no human voices are detected this may indicate that the user is waiting or the user has been put on hold. In this case the system may begin to analyze the audio communication and may determine whether the audio communication matches those of the routine call holding music or recordings. Thus the system need not continuously analyze the entire audio communication but may monitor or analyze the audio communication when a conversation has ended or when no human voice is heard. This may conserver the processing resources of the system.

In some embodiments the routine call holding music or recordings may be presented repeatedly in a loop during the call holding. The user device may monitor and recognize that the routine call holding music or recordings after a few repeatedly loops. The user device may then determine that the user is currently put on hold based on the repeated loops.

In an embodiment the various entities or organizations may agree on a standard signal for indicating when call holding begins and another standard signal when call holding ends. In another example a specific signal may continuously be presented during call holding. As such the system may determine when the user has been put on hold and when the call holding has ended based on the standard signals detected in the audio communication.

When no call holding is detected at step the process may return to step at which the system may continue to monitor the telephone communication. When call holding is detected at step the system may implement call holding features at step . The user may choose from various call holding features. In an embodiment the user may select other types of video audio or informational presentations the user prefers and the system present the selected presentations to the user at user device . For example the user may select and view sports news weather or the like on the user device . In another example the user may select to view advertisements or promotional presentations in exchange for offers coupons or certain customer rewards. The call holding management server may provide the various presentations to the user device to be presented to the user .

In an embodiment the system may automatically select presentations for the user based on the user s preferences and interests. For example based on the user s browsing history purchase history music or video playlist and other sources the system may determine types or categories of presentations such as new music movie videos and the like that the user may be interested in listening or viewing.

In an embodiment the call holding management server may provide information regarding call holding to the user . For example the call holding management server provide statistical information regarding the call holding queues such as average wait time average queue length estimated wait time the position of the user in the queue and the like. Thus the user may be informed regarding how long the user is estimated to be on hold. The call holding management server may determine or obtain the call holding queue information based on statistical history of the call holding queue. The call holding management server may also determine or obtain the call holding queue information from crowdsourcing such as obtaining information from other callers or customers who are also calling or are put on hold.

In an embodiment the call holding management server may allow the user to put down the user device or leave the user device . For example the user may put the telephone call on mute and may leave the user device to perform other tasks while the user is put on hold. During this time the system may continue to monitor the call holding for the user while the routine call holding music and or recordings are muted. The user may select how the user is to be notified when the call holding ends. Based on the user s situation and setting the user may choose to be notified by the user device or by another device of the user .

In an embodiment when the user is put on hold the system may present call holding options to the user at the user device . The user may select from call holding options such as stay on the line without enhanced call holding features select and view other presentations view advertisements or promotions to obtain rewards leave the telephone call and the like. If the user chooses to leave the telephone call or leave the user device the system may present options on how the user is to be notified to return to the telephone call or to the user device when the call holding ends. The notification options may include notification at the user device notification at another device of the user . The user also may choose the type of notification such as by an audio sound by a visual signal by a textual message and the like.

If the user selects notification by another device the system may request information regarding another device. For example the user may select to be notified by a smart watch wirelessly connected to the user device . The system may request for the information about the smart watch and how the notification at the smart watch should be presented such as by vibration or by a text message. In another example the user may select to be notified by another device not connected directly to the user device such as a user s laptop or the user s home entertainment system. The system may request contact information such as email address IP address or the like by which the system may send the notification to the device.

At step the system may determine whether the call holding has ended. In an embodiment the system may determine that the call holding has ended when the audio communication on the telephone call no longer match the audio signal patterns of the routine call holding music or recordings. In an embodiment the system may detect the standard signals that indicate the end of the call holding as agreed on by various entities or organizations. In still another embodiment the system may detect that the repeated looping of the routine call holding music or recording has ended.

In some embodiments the system may detect that a live person has started talking in the audio communication indicating the end of call holding. For example the routine call holding music may be certain instrumental music. The system may distinguish live person s human voice from the call holding instrumental music. In another example the system may recognize certain words or phrases spoken by a live person when the live person begins to talk such as hello or are you still there Thus the system may determine that the call holding has ended by various techniques or a combination of different techniques.

If the system detects that the call holding has not ended at step the process may return to step at which the call holding features may continue to be implemented. If the system determines that the call holding has ended at step the system may end the call holding features and may notify the user at step . In an embodiment the system may end the presentations or advertisements being presented to the user at the user device and may redirect the user back to the phone call. For example the user device may display a message Call holding has ended tap ok to return to phone call. The user may be provided with the option of viewing or listening to the remaining portion of the presentation later after the phone call is ended.

In an embodiment the system may notify the user who left the phone call or left the user device to do other tasks. In this case the system may notify the user based on the notification method previously requested by the user . For example the system may call text email or cause the user device or another device of the user to emit audio or visual signals or vibrate. In an embodiment the system may inform the other party of the phone call that the user is being notified. Thus the other party may be informed to wait for the user s return.

In another embodiment the type of notification type of delivery e.g. sound vibration visual indicator etc. and or device receiving the presentation may be dependent on various factors such as location of a user device background noise time of day etc. For example if a lot of background noise is detected such as at a train station or social event the notification may be with a louder audio signal a visual signal and or a vibration. In another example if the user is detected at a library or movie theater the notification may be a silent vibration. As such an appropriate notification may be delivered that results in a higher likelihood the user notice the notification and or less disturbance to others near the user.

By using the above process call holding in a telephone communication may be detected and enhanced call holding functions may be implemented for the user . As such the user may be presented with preferred content or the user may be allowed to leave the phone call during the call holding. The system also may detect when the call holding has ended and may notify the user to return to the phone call. As a result the user may have a better experience during a call holding period.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

