---

title: Dimeric IAP inhibitors
abstract: Molecular mimics of Smac are capable of modulating apoptosis through their interaction with cellular IAPs (inhibitor of apoptosis proteins). The mimetics are based on a monomer or dimer of the N-terminal tetrapeptide of IAP-binding proteins, such as Smac/DIABLO, Hid, Grim and Reaper, which interact with a specific surface groove of IAP. Also disclosed are methods of using these peptidomimetics for therapeutic purposes. In various embodiments of the invention the Smac mimetics of the invention are combined with chemotherapeutic agents, including, but not limited to topoisomerase inhibitors, kinase inhibitors, NSAIDs, taxanes and platinum containing compounds use broader language.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09187490&OS=09187490&RS=09187490
owner: TetraLogic Birinapant UK Ltd.
number: 09187490
owner_city: Birmingham
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20140721
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 925 960 entitled DIMERIC IAP INHIBITORS filed Jun. 25 2013 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 196 202 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 497 297 entitled DIMERIC IAP INHIBITORS filed Aug. 2 2011 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 403 915 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 022 230 entitled DIMERIC IAP INHIBITORS filed on Mar. 13 2009 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 363 387 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 906 entitled DIMERIC IAP INHIBITORS filed on Feb. 27 2006 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 656 201 entitled PEPTIDOMIMETICS filed on Feb. 25 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 668 344 entitled IMMUNOTHERAPEUTIC USES OF SMAC MIMETICS filed on Apr. 5 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 692 111 entitled PEPTIDOMIMETICS OF SMAC ALONE OR IN COMBINATION WITH TOPOISOMERASE INHIBITORS filed on Jun. 20 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 706 649 entitled PEPTIDOMIMETICS OF SMAC AS CIAP INHIBITORS filed on Aug. 9 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 729 853 entitled PEPTIDOMIMETICS OF SMAC ALONE OR IN COMBINATION WITH PLATINUM CONTAINING COMPOUNDS AND TAXANES filed on Oct. 25 2005 herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Apoptosis programmed cell death plays a central role in the development and homeostasis of all multi cellular organisms. Apoptotis can be initiated within a cell from an external factor such as a chemokine an extrinsic pathway or via an intracellular event such as DNA damage an intrinsic pathway . Alterations in apoptotic pathways have been implicated in many types of human pathologies including developmental disorders cancer autoimmune diseases as well as neuro degenerative disorders. One mode of action of chemotherapeutic drugs is cell death via apoptosis.

Apoptosis is conserved across species and executed primarily by activated caspases a family of cysteine proteases with aspartate specificity in their substrates. These cysteine containing aspartate specific proteases caspases are produced in cells as catalytically inactive zymogens and are proteolytically processed to become active proteases during apoptosis. Once activated effector caspases are responsible for proteolytic cleavage of a broad spectrum of cellular targets that ultimately lead to cell death. In normal surviving cells that have not received an apoptotic stimulus most caspases remain inactive. If caspases are aberrantly activated their proteolytic activity can be inhibited by a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins called IAPs inhibitors of apoptosis proteins .

The IAP family of proteins suppresses apoptosis by preventing the activation of procaspases and inhibiting the enzymatic activity of mature caspases. Several distinct mammalian IAPs including XIAP c IAP1 c IAP2 ML IAP NAIP neuronal apoptosis inhibiting protein Bruce and survivin have been identified and they all exhibit anti apoptotic activity in cell culture. IAPs were originally discovered in baculovirus by their functional ability to substitute for P35 protein an anti apoptotic gene. IAPs have been described in organisms ranging from to human and are known to be overexpressed in many human cancers. Generally speaking IAPs comprise one to three Baculovirus LAP IAP repeat BIR domains and most of them also possess a carboxyl terminal RING finger motif. The BIR domain itself is a zinc binding domain of about 70 residues comprising 4 alpha helices and 3 beta strands with cysteine and histidine residues that coordinate the zinc ion. It is the BIR domain that is believed to cause the anti apoptotic effect by inhibiting the caspases and thus inhibiting apoptosis. XIAP is expressed ubiquitously in most adult and fetal tissues. Overexpression of XIAP in tumor cells has been demonstrated to confer protection against a variety of pro apoptotic stimuli and promotes resistance to chemotherapy. Consistent with this a strong correlation between XIAP protein levels and survival has been demonstrated for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. Down regulation of XIAP expression by antisense oligonucleotides has been shown to sensitize tumor cells to death induced by a wide range of pro apoptotic agents both in vitro and in vivo. Smac DIABLO derived peptides have also been demonstrated to sensitize a number of different tumor cell lines to apoptosis induced by a variety of pro apoptotic drugs.

In normal cells signaled to undergo apoptosis however the IAP mediated inhibitory effect must be removed a process at least in part performed by a mitochondrial protein named Smac second mitochondrial activator of caspases . Smac or DIABLO is synthesized as a precursor molecule of 239 amino acids the N terminal 55 residues serve as the mitochondria targeting sequence that is removed after import. The mature form of Smac contains 184 amino acids and behaves as an oligomer in solution. Smac and various fragments thereof have been proposed for use as targets for identification of therapeutic agents.

Smac is synthesized in the cytoplasm with an N terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence that is proteolytically removed during maturation to the mature polypeptide and is then targeted to the inter membrane space of mitochondria. At the time of apoptosis induction Smac is released from mitochondria into the cytosol together with cytochrome c where it binds to IAPs and enables caspase activation therein eliminating the inhibitory effect of IAPs on apoptosis. Whereas cytochrome c induces multimerization of Apaf 1 to activate procaspase 9 and 3 Smac eliminates the inhibitory effect of multiple IAPs. Smac interacts with essentially all IAPs that have been examined to date including XIAP c IAP1 c IAP2 and ML IAP. Thus Smac appears to be a master regulator of apoptosis in mammals.

It has been shown that Smac acts as an IAP antagonist promoting not only the proteolytic activation of procaspases but also the enzymatic activity of mature caspase both of which depend upon its ability to interact physically with IAPs. X ray crystallography has shown that the first four amino acids AVPI of mature Smac bind to a portion of IAPs. This N terminal sequence is essential for binding IAPs and blocking their anti apoptotic effects.

The basic biology IAP antagonists suggest that they may complement or synergize other chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents and or radiation. Chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents and radiation would be expected to induce apoptosis as a result of DNA damage and or the disruption of cellular metabolism.

Current trends in cancer drug design focus on selective activation of apoptotic signaling pathways within tumors while sparing normal cells. The tumor specific properties of specific antitumor agents such as TRAIL have been reported. The tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand TRAIL is one of several members of the tumor necrosis factor TNF superfamily that induce apoptosis through the engagement of death receptors. TRAIL interacts with an unusually complex receptor system which in humans comprises two death receptors and three decoy receptors. TRAIL has been used as an anti cancer agent alone and in combination with other agents including chemotherapeutic drugs and ionizing radiation. TRAIL can initiate apoptosis in cells that overexpress the survival factors Bcl 2 and Bcl XL and may represent a treatment strategy for tumors that have acquired resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. TRAIL binds its cognate receptors and activates the caspase cascade utilizing adapter molecules such as FADD. Currently five TRAIL receptors have been identified. Two receptors TRAIL R1 DR4 and TRAIL R2 DR5 mediate apoptotic signaling and three non functional receptors DcR1 DcR2 and osteoprotegerin OPG may act as decoy receptors. Agents that increase expression of DR4 and DR5 may exhibit synergistic anti tumor activity when combined with TRAIL.

The beneficial effects of TRAIL production have been shown in several types of cancer. For example intravesical instillation of the BCG vaccine induces a Th1 immune response resulting in the production of anti tumor cytokines including TRAIL and the infiltration of the lesion with immune cell and is the first line of therapy for the treatment of superficial bladder cancer. In vitro studies indicate that interferon alpha INF which in currently being tested in clinical studies for efficacy in bladder cancer causes apoptosis mediated by the autocrine production of TRAIL in human bladder cancer cell lines. The circulating level of osteoprotogerin a decoy receptor for TRAIL is also increased in patients with bladder cancer and negatively correlate with tumor stage grade and prognosis.

Moreover it has been shown that TRAIL expression by NK Natural Killer cells is enhanced by IL 2 Interleukin 2 treatment and the expression of TRAIL is required for full tumor cell cytotoxic effects. IL 2 a cytokine is currently approved for the treatment of both melanoma and renal cell carcinoma.

Inhibition of cancer cell replication and or DNA damage repair will enhance nuclear DNA fragmentation thus inducing the cell to enter the apoptotic pathway. Topoisomerases a class of enzymes that reduce supercoiling in DNA by breaking and rejoining one or both strands of the DNA molecule are vital to cellular processes such as DNA replication and repair. Inhibition of this class of enzymes impairs the cells ability to replicate as well as to repair damaged DNA and activates the intrinsic apoptotic pathway.

The main pathways leading from topoisomerase mediated DNA damage to cell death involve activation of caspases in the cytoplasm by proapoptotic molecules released from mitochondria such as Smac. The engagement of these apoptotic effector pathways is tightly controlled by upstream regulatory pathways that respond to DNA lesions induced by topoisomerase inhibitors in cells undergoing apoptosis. Initiation of cellular responses to DNA lesions induced by topoisomerase inhibitors is ensured by protein kinases that bind to DNA breaks. These kinases non limiting examples of which include Akt JNK and P38 commonly called DNA sensors mediate DNA repair cell cycle arrest and or apoptosis by phosphorylating a large number of substrates including several downstream kinases.

Platinum chemotherapy drugs belong to a general group of DNA modifying agents. DNA modifying agents may be any highly reactive chemical compound that bonds with various nucleophilic groups in nucleic acids and proteins and cause mutagenic carcinogenic or cytotoxic effects. DNA modifying agents work by different mechanisms disruption of DNA function and cell death DNA damage the formation of cross bridges or bonds between atoms in the DNA and induction of mispairing of the nucleotides leading to mutations to achieve the same end result. Three non limiting examples of platinum containing DNA modifying agents are cisplatin carboplatin and oxaliplatin.

Cisplatin is believed to kill cancer cells by binding to DNA and interfering with its repair mechanism eventually leading to cell death. Carboplatin and oxaliplatin are cisplatin derivatives that share the same mechanism of action. Highly reactive platinum complexes are formed intracellularly and inhibit DNA synthesis by covalently binding DNA molecules to form intrastrand and interstrand DNA crosslinks.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs have been shown to induce apoptosis in colorectal cells. NSAIDS appear to induce apoptosis via the release of Smac from the mitochondria PNAS Nov. 30 2004 vol. 101 16897 16902 . Therefore the use of NSAIDs in combination with Smac mimetics would be expected to increase the activity each drug over the activity of either drug independently.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 992 063 to Shi et al. entitled Compositions and method for Regulating Apoptosis filed on Sep. 28 2001 and issued on Jan. 31 2006 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety teaches that mimetics of the N terminal portion of Smac provide viable drug candidates.

Additionally it has been shown in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 777 946 to McLendon et al. entitled IAP Binding Cargo Molecules and Peptidomimetics For Use In Diagnostic and Therapeutic Methods filed on Feb. 12 2004 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety that a cargo molecule can be attached to a N terminal Smac tetrapeptide peptidomimetic.

The present invention provides compounds which mimic the tertiary binding structure of Smac to IAPs or activity of the N terminal portion of Smac. Stereoisomers of the mimetic compounds described herein are also encompassed in the present invention. The invention also provides methods of using these mimetics to modulate apoptosis and further for therapeutic purposes. The invention also provides intermediates and methods for using these intermediates for the preparation of compounds which modulate apoptosis by mimicking the tertiary binding structure of Smac to IAPs or activity of the N terminal portion of Smac.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the therapeutic combination of compounds of the present invention with TRAIL or other chemical or biological agents which bind to and activate the TRAIL receptor s . TRAIL has received considerable attention recently because of the finding that many cancer cell types are sensitive to TRAIL induced apoptosis while most normal cells appear to be resistant to this action of TRAIL. TRAIL resistant cells may arise by a variety of different mechanisms including loss of the receptor presence of decoy receptors or overexpression of FLIP which competes for zymogen caspase 8 binding during DISC formation. In TRAIL resistance Smac mimetics increase tumor cell sensitivity to TRAIL leading to enhanced cell death the clinical correlations of which are expected to be increased apoptotic activity in TRAIL resistant tumors improved clinical response increased response duration and ultimately enhanced patient survival rate. In support of this reduction in XIAP levels by in vitro antisense treatment has been shown to cause sensitization of resistant melanoma cells and renal carcinoma cells to TRAIL Chawla Sarkar et al. 2004 . The Smac mimetics disclosed herein bind to IAPs and inhibit their interaction with caspases therein potentiating TRAIL induced apoptosis.

In another embodiment of the invention Smac mimetics are used in combination with BCG vaccine treatment of bladder cancer. XIAP the nominal target of Smac mimetics is overexpressed in a high proportion of bladder cancers. In studies using antisense XIAP bladder cancer cells were sensitized to chemotherapeutic agents inducing apoptosis of effected cells through the TRAIL pathway. The present invention provides Smac mimetics for use with BCG therapy in superficial bladder cancer carcinoma in situ. The Smac mimetics disclosed herein will enhance the effects of BCG vaccine by enhancing the effects if TRAIL generated in response to the vaccine.

Similarly Smac mimetics will augment the TRAIL induced apoptosis observed in melanoma and renal cell carcinoma patients being treated with IL 2. Since IL 2 induces NK cell activity enhancing TRAIL expression the addition of treatment with a caspase 9 activator such as Smac mimetic will lead to a more efficious clinical response.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides Smac mimetics which act synergistically with topoismerase inhibitors to potentiate their apoptotic inducing effect. Topoisomerase inhibitors inhibit DNA replication and repair thereby promoting apoptosis and have been used as chemothemotherapeutic agents. Topoisomerase inhibitors promote DNA damage by inhibiting the enzymes that are required in the DNA repair process. Therefore export of cytochrome c and Smac from the mitochondria into the cell cytosol is induced by the DNA damage caused by topoisomerase inhibitors.

Topoisomerase inhibitors of both the Type I class camptothecin topotecan SN 38 irinotecan topotecan BNP 1350 9 amino camptothecan lurtotecan grimatecan exatecan amsacrine and diflomotecan and the Type II class etoposide anthracycyline anthraquinone and podophyllotoxin show potent synergy with the Smac mimetics of the invention in a multi resistant glioblastoma cell line T98G breast cancer line MDA MB 231 and ovarian cancer line OVCAR 3 among others. Other topoisomerase inhibitors include for example Aclacinomycin A camptothecin daunorubicin doxorubicin ellipticine epirubicin and mitaxantrone.

In another embodiment of the invention the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent may be a platinum containing compound. In one embodiment of the invention the platinum containing compound is cisplatin. Cisplatin can synergize with a Smac peptidomimetic and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP such as but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc. In another embodiment a platinum containing compound is carboplatin. Carboplatin can synergize with a Smac peptidomimetic and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP including but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc. In another embodiment a platinum containing compound is oxaliplatin. The oxaliplatin can synergize with a Smac peptidomimetic and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP including but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc.

In another embodiment of the invention the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent that synergizes with a compound according to the present invention is a taxane. Taxanes are anti mitotic mitotic inhibitors or microtubule polymerization agents. Taxanes include but are not limited to docetaxel and paclitaxel.

Taxanes are characterized as compounds that promote assembly of microtubules by inhibiting tubulin depolymerization thereby blocking cell cycle progression through centrosomal impairment induction of abnormal spindles and suppression of spindle microtubule dynamics. The unique mechanism of action of taxane is in contrast to other microtubule poisons such as Vinca alkaloids colchicine and cryptophycines which inhibit tubulin polymerization. Microtubules are highly dynamic cellular polymers made of tubulin and associated proteins that play key roles during mitosis by participating in the organization and function of the spindle assuring the integrity of the segregated DNA. Therefore they represent an effective target for cancer therapy.

In another embodiment any agent that activates the intrinsic apoptotic pathway and or causes the release of Smac or cytochrome c from the mitochondria has the potential to act synergistically with a Smac mimetic.

A combination of a Smac peptidomimetic and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy of any type that activates the intrinsic or extrinsic pathways or the release of Smac may provide a more effective approach to destroying tumor cells. Smac peptidomimetics interact with IAP s such as XIAP cIAP 1 cIAP 2 ML IAP etc. and block the IAP mediated inhibition of apoptosis while chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and or radiation therapy kills actively dividing cells by activating the intrinsic apoptotic pathway leading to apoptosis and cell death. As is described in more detail below embodiments of the invention provide combinations of a Smac pepidomimetc and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation which provide a synergistic action against unwanted cell proliferation. This synergistic action between a Smac peptidomimetic and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy can improve the efficiency of the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy. This will allow for an increase in the effectiveness of current chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents or radiation treatment allowing the dose of the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent to be lowered therein providing both a more effective dosing schedule as well as a more tolerable dose of chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the invention are described by referring mainly to an embodiment thereof. In addition in the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In other instances well known methods and structures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods are now described. All publications and references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Alkyl means a branched or unbranched saturated or unsaturated i.e. alkenyl alkynyl aliphatic hydrocarbon group having up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. When used as part of another term for example alkylamino the alkyl portion may be a saturated hydrocarbon chain however also includes unsaturated hydrocarbon carbon chains such as alkenylamino and alkynylamino . Examples of particular alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl n pentyl 2 methylbutyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl n hexyl 2 methylpentyl 2 2 dimethylbutyl n heptyl 3 heptyl 2 methylhexyl and the like. The terms lower alkyl C1 C4 alkyl and alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms are synonymous and used interchangeably to mean methyl ethyl 1 propyl isopropyl cyclopropyl 1 butyl sec butyl or t butyl. Unless specified substituted alkyl groups may contain one two three or four substituents which may be the same or different. Examples of the above substituted alkyl groups include but are not limited to cyanomethyl nitromethyl hydroxymethyl trityloxymethyl propionyloxymethyl aminomethyl carboxymethyl carboxyethyl carboxypropyl alkyloxycarbonylmethyl allyloxycarbonylaminomethyl carbamoyloxymethyl methoxymethyl ethoxymethyl t butoxymethyl acetoxymethyl chloromethyl bromomethyl iodomethyl trifluoromethyl 6 hydroxyhexyl 2 4 dichloro n butyl 2 amino iso propyl 2 carbamoyloxyethyl and the like. The alkyl group may also be substituted with a carbocycle group. Examples include cyclopropylmethyl cyclobutylmethyl cyclopentylmethyl and cyclohexylmethyl groups as well as the corresponding ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl groups etc. Particular substituted alkyls are substituted methyls e.g. a methyl group substituted by the same substituents as the substituted Cn Cm alkyl group. Examples of the substituted methyl group include groups such as hydroxymethyl protected hydroxymethyl e.g. tetrahydropyranyloxymethyl acetoxymethyl carbamoyloxymethyl trifluoromethyl chloromethyl carboxymethyl bromomethyl and iodomethyl.

 Amino denotes primary i.e. NH2 secondary i.e. NRH and tertiary i.e. NRR amines. Particular secondary and tertiary amines are alkylamine dialkylamine arylamine diarylamine arylalkylamine and diarylalkylamine. Particular secondary and tertiary amines are methylamine ethylamine propylamine isopropylamine phenylamine benzylamine dimethylamine diethylamine dipropylamine and disopropylamine.

 Aryl when used alone or as part of another term means a carbocyclic aromatic group whether or not fused having the number of carbon atoms designated or if no number is designated up to 14 carbon atoms. Particular aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl biphenyl phenanthrenyl naphthacenyl and the like see e.g. Lang s Handbook of Chemistry Dean J. A. ed 13ed. Table 7 2 1985 . In a particular embodiment an aryl group is phenyl. Substituted phenyl or substituted aryl denotes a phenyl group or aryl group substituted with one two three four or five substituents chosen unless otherwise specified from halogen F Cl Br I hydroxy protected hydroxy cyano nitro alkyl such as C1 C6 alkyl alkoxy such as C1 C6 alkoxy benzyloxy carboxy protected carboxy carboxymethyl protected carboxymethyl hydroxymethyl protected hydroxymethyl aminomethyl protected aminomethyl trifluoromethyl alkylsulfonylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl aryl or other groups specified. One or more methyne CH and or methylene CH2 groups in these substituents may in turn be substituted with a similar group as those denoted above. Examples of the term substituted phenyl includes but is not limited to a mono or di halo phenyl group such as 2 chlorophenyl 2 bromophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 6 dichlorophenyl 2 5 dichlorophenyl 3 4 dichlorophenyl 3 chlorophenyl 3 bromophenyl 4 bromophenyl 3 4 dibromophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 fluorophenyl and the like a mono or di hydroxy phenyl group such as 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl the protected hydroxy derivatives thereof and the like a nitrophenyl group such as 3 or 4 nitrophenyl a cyanophenyl group for example 4 cyanophenyl a mono or di lower alkyl phenyl group such as 4 methylphenyl 2 4 dimethylphenyl 2 methylphenyl 4 iso propyl phenyl 4 ethylphenyl 3 n propyl phenyl and the like a mono or di alkoxy phenyl group for example 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy phenyl 3 ethoxyphenyl 4 isopropoxy phenyl 4 t butoxy phenyl 3 ethoxy 4 methoxyphenyl and the like 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl a mono or dicarboxyphenyl or protected carboxy phenyl group such 4 carboxyphenyl a mono or di hydroxymethyl phenyl or protected hydroxymethyl phenyl such as 3 protected hydroxymethyl phenyl or 3 4 di hydroxymethyl phenyl a mono or di aminomethyl phenyl or protected aminomethyl phenyl such as 2 aminomethyl phenyl or 2 4 protected aminomethyl phenyl or a mono or di N methylsulfonylamino phenyl such as 3 N methylsulfonylamino phenyl. Also the term substituted phenyl represents disubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different for example 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 methoxy 4 bromophenyl 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenyl 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenyl and the like as well as trisubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different for example 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 6 methyl sulfonylamino 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 6 phenyl sulfonylamino and tetrasubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different such as 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 5 methyl 6 phenyl sulfonylamino. Particular substituted phenyl groups are 2 chlorophenyl 2 aminophenyl 2 bromophenyl 3 methoxyphenyl 3 ethoxy phenyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 4 methoxyphenyl 3 ethoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 4 diethoxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy phenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy 6 methyl sulfonyl aminophenyl groups. Fused aryl rings may also be substituted with the substituents specified herein for example with 1 2 or 3 substituents in the same manner as substituted alkyl groups.

The term alkylene radical as used herein includes reference to a di functional saturated branched or unbranched hydrocarbon radical containing from 1 to 30 carbon atoms and includes for example methylene CH ethylene CHCH propylene CHCHCH 2 methylpropylene CHCH CH CH hexylene CH and the like. Lower alkylene includes an alkylene group of 1 to 10 more preferably 1 to 5 carbon atoms.

Substituted alkylene radicals includes reference to a di functional saturated branched or unbranched alkylene radical or group having 1 30 carbon atoms and having from 1 to 5 substituents. Lower substituted alkylene radicals refer to a substituted alkylene radical group having 1 10 carbon atoms preferably having 1 5 carbon atoms and having from 1 to 5 substituents. Substituents can include but are not limited to those for the alkyl groups.

The term alkenyl radical as used herein includes reference to a branched cyclic hydrocarbon or unbranched hydrocarbon radical of 2 to 30 carbon atoms containing at least one carbon carbon double bond such as ethenyl n propenyl isopropenyl n butenyl isobutenyl t butenyl octenyl decenyl tetradecenyl hexadecenyl eicosenyl tetracosenyl and the like. The term lower alkenyl includes an alkenyl group of 2 to 10 carbon atoms preferably 2 to 5 carbon atoms containing at least one carbon carbon double bond. The one or more carbon carbon double bonds may independently have a cis or trans configuration. Substituted alkenyl radical refers to an alkenyl radical or lower alkenyl group having from 1 to 5 substituents that can include but are not limited to those for the alkyl groups.

The term alkenylene radical includes reference to a difunctional branched or unbranched hydrocarbon radical or group containing from 2 to 30 carbon atoms and at least one carbon carbon double bond. Lower alkenylene includes an alkenylene group of 2 to 10 more preferably 2 to 5 carbon atoms containing one carbon carbon double bond. Substituted alkenylene radical refers to an alkenylene radical or lower alkenyl group having from 1 to 5 substituents that can include but are not limited to those for the alkyl groups.

The term alkynyl radical or group refers to straight or branched chain hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 12 carbon atoms and at least one triple bond some embodiments include alkynyl groups of 2 to 6 carbon atoms that have one triple bond. A substituted alkynyl will contain one two or three substituents as defined for substituted alkyl groups. Alkynylene includes reference to a difunctional branched or unbranched hydrocarbon chain containing from 2 to 12 carbon atoms and at least one carbon carbon triple bond some embodiments include an alkynylene groups of 2 to 6 carbon atoms with one triple bond. A substituted alkynylene will contain one two or three substituents as defined for substituted alkyl groups.

 Heterocyclic group heterocyclic heterocycle heterocyclyl or heterocyclo alone and when used as a moiety in a complex group such as a heterocycloalkyl group are used interchangeably and refer to any mono bi or tricyclic saturated or unsaturated aromatic heteroaryl or non aromatic ring having the number of atoms designated generally from 5 to about 14 ring atoms where the ring atoms are carbon and at least one heteroatom nitrogen sulfur or oxygen . In a particular embodiment the group incorporates 1 to 4 heteroatoms. Typically a 5 membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds and 6 or 7 membered ring has 0 to 3 double bonds and the nitrogen or sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized e.g. SO SO and any nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. Particular non aromatic heterocycles include morpholinyl morpholino pyrrolidinyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl 2 3 dihydrofuranyl 2H pyranyl tetrahydropyranyl thiiranyl thietanyl tetrahydrothietanyl aziridinyl azetidinyl 1 methyl 2 pyrrolyl piperazinyl and piperidinyl. A heterocycloalkyl group is a heterocycle group as defined above covalently bonded to an alkyl group as defined above.

Particular 5 membered heterocycles containing a sulfur or oxygen atom and one to three nitrogen atoms include thiazolyl such as thiazol 2 yl and thiazol 2 yl N oxide thiadiazolyl such as 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl and 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl oxazolyl such as oxazol 2 yl and oxadiazolyl such as 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl and 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl. Particular 5 membered ring heterocycles containing 2 to 4 nitrogen atoms include imidazolyl such as imidazol 2 yl triazolyl such as 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl and 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl and tetrazolyl such as 1H tetrazol 5 yl. Particular benzo fused 5 membered heterocycles are benzoxazol 2 yl benzthiazol 2 yl and benzimidazol 2 yl. Particular 6 membered heterocycles contain one to three nitrogen atoms and optionally a sulfur or oxygen atom for example pyridyl such as pyrid 2 yl pyrid 3 yl and pyrid 4 yl pyrimidyl such as pyrimid 2 yl and pyrimid 4 yl triazinyl such as 1 3 4 triazin 2 yl and 1 3 5 triazin 4 yl pyridazinyl such as pyridazin 3 yl and pyrazinyl. Substituents for optionally substituted heterocycles and further examples of the 5 and 6 membered ring systems discussed above can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 278 793 to W. Druckheimer et al.

Arylalkyl radical refers to alkyl radicals bearing an aryl substituent and have from about 6 to about 20 carbon atoms and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific numbers of carbon atoms therein with from about 6 to about 12 carbon atoms being preferred. Arylalkyl groups can be optionally substituted. Non limiting examples include for example benzyl naphthylmethyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl phenylethyl and diphenylethyl. A substituted arylalkyl group will contain one or more substituents on the aryl or alkyl group as defined for substituted alkyl groups.

Cycloalkylaryl radical or group refers to a cycloalkyl radical fused to an aryl group including all combinations of independently substituted alkyl cycloalkylaryls the cycloalkyl and aryl group having two atoms in common.

Cycloalkyl radical or group more specifically includes reference to a monovalent saturated carbocyclic alkyl radical consisting of one or more rings in their structures and having from about 3 to about 14 carbon atoms and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific numbers of carbon atoms therein with from about 3 to about 7 carbon atoms being preferred. Multi ring structures may be bridged or fused ring structures. The rings can optionally be substituted with one or more of the substituents for the alkyl groups. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cyclooctyl and adamantyl. A substituted cycloalkyl group will contain one or more substituents as defined for substituted alkyl groups.

Cycloalkylalkyl radical more specifically refers to alkyl radicals bearing an cycloalkyl substituent and having from about 4 to about 20 carbon atoms and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific numbers of carbon atoms therein with from about 6 to about 12 carbon atoms being preferred and can include but are not limited to methyl cyclopropyl methylcyclohexyl isopropylcyclohexyl and butyl cyclohexyl groups. Cycloalkylalkyl radical or group can be optionally substituted with one or more substituents for the alkyl groups including but not limited to hydroxy cyano alkyl alkoxy thioalkyl halo haloalkyl hydroxyalkyl nitro amino alkylamino and dialkylamino.

 Heteroaryl alone and when used as a moiety in a complex group such as a heteroarylalkyl group refers to any mono bi or tricyclic aromatic ring system having the number of atoms designated where at least one ring is a 5 6 or 7 membered ring containing from one to four heteroatoms selected from the group nitrogen oxygen and sulfur Lang s Haltdbook of Chemistry supra . Included in the definition are any bicyclic groups where any of the above heteroaryl rings are fused to a benzene ring. The following ring systems are examples of the heteroaryl whether substituted or unsubstituted groups denoted by the term heteroaryl thienyl furyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl oxadiazolyl tetrazolyl thiatriazolyl oxatriazolyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl thiazinyl oxazinyl triazinyl thiadiazinyl oxadiazinyl dithiazinyl dioxazinyl oxathiazinyl tetrazinyl thiatriazinyl oxatriazinyl dithiadiazinyl imidazolinyl dihydropyrimidyl tetrahydropyrimidyl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazinyl and purinyl as well as benzo fused derivatives for example benzoxazolyl benzofuryl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzotriazolyl benzoimidazolyl and indolyl. Particularly heteroaryls include 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl sodium salt 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 3 methyl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 hydroxy 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 carboxy 4 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl sodium salt 2 carboxy 4 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1 3 oxazol 2 yl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 hydroxymethyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 thiol 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 methylthio 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 amino 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 2 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 4 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl pyrid 2 yl N oxide 6 methoxy 2 n oxide pyridaz 3 yl 6 hydroxypyridaz 3 yl 1 methylpyrid 2 yl 1 methylpyrid 4 yl 2 hydroxypyrimid 4 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 5 6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 4 formylmethyl 5 6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy astriazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin 3 yl sodium salt 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl astriazin 3 yl sodium salt 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 methoxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 2 6 dimethyl as triazin 3 yl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl and 8 aminotetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl. An alternative group of heteroaryl includes 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl sodium salt 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 5 6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 4 2 formylmethyl 5 6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl sodium salt 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl and 8 aminotetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl.

 Inhibitor means a compound which reduces or prevents the binding of IAP proteins to caspase proteins or which reduces or prevents the inhibition of apoptosis by an IAP protein or which binds to an IAP BIR domain in a manner similar to the amino terminal portion of Smac thereby freeing Smac to inhibit the action of an IAP.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include both acid and base addition salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid carbonic acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids may be selected from aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids such as formic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid gluconic acid lactic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid malic acid maleic acid maloneic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid aspartic acid ascorbic acid glutamic acid anthranilic acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid embonic acid phenylacetic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicyclic acid and the like.

The terms mimetic peptide mimetic and peptidomimetic are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to a peptide partial peptide or non peptide molecule that mimics the tertiary binding structure or activity of a selected native peptide or protein functional domain e.g. binding motif or active site . These peptide mimetics include recombinantly or chemically modified peptides as well as non peptide agents such as small molecule drug mimetics as further described below.

As used herein the terms pharmaceutically acceptable physiologically tolerable and grammatical variations thereof as they refer to compositions carriers diluents and reagents are used interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of administration upon a mammal without the production of undesirable physiological effects such as nausea dizziness rash or gastric upset.

 Providing when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted.

As used herein subject or patient refers to an animal or mammal including but not limited to human dog cat horse cow pig sheep goat chicken monkey rabbit rat mouse etc.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to promote apoptosis and thus cell death.

The terms therapeutically effective amount or effective amount as used herein may be used interchangeably and refer to an amount of a therapeutic compound component of the present invention. For example a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to effectively promote apoptosis or to sensitize a cell to apoptosis preferably by eliminating an IAP inhibition of apoptosis more preferably by inhibiting an IAP binding to a caspase.

 Mimetics or peptidomimetics are synthetic compounds having a three dimensional structure i.e. a core peptide motif based upon the three dimensional structure of a selected peptide. The peptide motif provides the mimetic compound with the desired biological activity i.e. binding to IAP wherein the binding activity of the mimetic compound is not substantially reduced and is often the same as or greater than the binding affinity of the native peptide on which the mimetic is modeled. For example in the mimetics of the present invention we have found that Xand Xcan be quite non peptide like. Peptidomimetic compounds can have additional characteristics that enhance their therapeutic application such as increased cell permeability greater affinity and or avidity and prolonged biological half life.

Mimetic specifically peptidomimetic design strategies are readily available in the art and can be easily adapted for use in the present invention see e.g. Ripka Rich Curr. Op. Chem. Biol. 2 441 452 1998 Hruby et al. Curr. Op. Chem. Biol. 1 114 119 1997 Hruby Balse Curr. Med. Chem. 9 945 970 2000 . One class of mimetic mimics a backbone that is partially or completely non peptide but mimics the peptide backbone atom for atom and comprises side groups that likewise mimic the functionality of the side groups of the native amino acid residues. Several types of chemical bonds e.g. ester thioester thioamide retroamide reduced carbonyl dimethylene and ketomethylene bonds are known in the art to be generally useful substitutes for peptide bonds in the construction of protease resistant peptidomimetics. Another class of peptidomimetics comprises a small non peptide molecule that binds to another peptide or protein but which is not necessarily a structural mimetic of the native peptide. Yet another class of peptidomimetics has arisen from combinatorial chemistry and the generation of massive chemical libraries. These generally comprise novel templates which though structurally unrelated to the native peptide possess necessary functional groups positioned on a nonpeptide scaffold to serve as topographical mimetics of the original peptide Ripka Rich 1998 supra . Tetrapeptidomimetics of the invention are of the type disclosed and claimed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 992 063 to Shi et al.

It has been demonstrated in accordance with the present invention that the IAP binding peptides or mimetics thereof are capable of potentiating apoptosis of cells.

Mimetics of the core IAP binding portions are preferred. The mimetics described herein are suitably small and since structural features in relation to the IAP binding groove are well characterized a wide variety of mimetic compounds may be synthesized. Added advantages of compounds of this size include improved solubility in aqueous solution and ease of delivery to selected targets in vivo.

In one embodiment the IAP binding peptides of the invention are modified to produce peptide mimetics by replacement of one or more naturally occurring side chains of the 20 genetically encoded amino acids or D amino acids with other side chains for instance with groups such as alkyl lower alkyl cyclic 4 5 6 to 7 membered alkyl amide amide lower alkyl amide di lower alkyl lower alkoxy hydroxy carboxy and the lower ester derivatives thereof and with 4 5 6 to 7 membered heterocyclics. For example proline analogs can be made in which the ring size of the proline residue is changed from 5 members to 4 6 or 7 members. Cyclic groups can be saturated or unsaturated and if unsaturated can be aromatic or non aromatic. Heterocyclic groups can contain one or more nitrogen oxygen and or sulphur heteroatoms. Examples of such groups include the furazanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl morpholinyl e.g. morpholino oxazolyl piperazinyl e.g. 1 piperazinyl piperidyl e.g. 1 piperidyl piperidino pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolidinyl e.g. 1 pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl thiomorpholinyl e.g. thiomorpholino and triazolyl. These heterocyclic groups can be substituted or unsubstituted. Where a group is substituted the substituent can be alkyl alkoxy halogen oxygen or substituted or unsubstituted phenyl. Peptidomimetics may also have amino acid residues that have been chemically modified by phosphorylation sulfonation biotinylation or the addition or removal of other moieties.

The present invention provides compounds which mimic the tertiary binding structure of Smac to IAPs or activity of the N terminal portion of Smac. Stereoisomers of the mimetic compounds described herein are also encompassed in the present invention. The invention also provides methods of using these mimetics to modulate apoptosis and further for therapeutic purposes. The invention also provides intermediates and methods for using these intermediates for the preparation of compounds which modulate apoptosis by mimicking the tertiary binding structure of Smac to IAPs or activity of the N terminal portion of Smac.

In accordance with the present invention a compound of the present invention having the general formula I is provided 

The compounds encompassed in the present invention include both Smac mimetics and intermediates therefor. The present invention includes stereosiomers of each disclosed compound. Generally the compounds of the present invention include tertrapetide mimetics of Smac covalently attached dimers of tetrapeptide mimetics of Smac and covalently attached homodimers of tetrapeptide mimetics of Smac. Homodimers are those mimetics wherein the substantially identical tetrapeptide mimetics are covalently bound.

The experimental schemes below are related to the schemes used to produce the compounds first disclosed in PCT Publication No. WO 2004 007529 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Suitable peptides and peptidomimetics are also described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 184 503 filed Jul. 15 2005 entitled IAP Binding Compounds based upon U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 588 050 filed Jul. 15 2004 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The binding affinity of compounds embodies in the present invention to the XIAP was determined as described by Nikolovska Coleska Z. et. al. Analytical Biochemistry 2004 vol. 332 261 273 using a variety of fluorogenic substrates and is reported as a Kvalue. Briefly various concentrations of test peptides were mixed with 5 nM fluorescently labeled peptide AbuRPF K 5 Fam NH2 and 40 nM of XIAP BIR3 for 15 min at RT in 100 L of 0.1M Potassium Phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 100 g ml bovine globulin. Following incubation the polarization values mP were measured on a VictorV using a 485 nm excitation filter and a 520 nm emission filter. ICvalues were determined from the plot using nonlinear least squares analysis using GraphPad Prism. The compounds described herein afford Kvalues in the ranges of K10 M D .

NBS 3.2 g 17.9 mmol was added to a solution containing 1 5.4 g 17.0 mmol in CCl 50 mL . The heterogeneous reaction mixture was heated to reflux 80 85 C. for 2 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 1. TLC analysis 4 1 hexane EtOAc R 8 0.4 R 2 0.5 . The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then poured onto a column of silica gel. The product was eluted with 10 15 EtOAc hexane to afford 4.4 g 65 of 2 as a white solid. H NMR DMSO 300 MHz 11.74 s 1H 7.56 m 1H 7.02 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 6.88 m 1H 3.99 m 1H 3.22 m 2H 2.97 m 1H 2.58 dd J 13.5 9.3 Hz 1H 1.9 1.5 4H 1.40 s 9H ppm.

A solution containing 2 3.3 g 8.3 mmol in toluene 25 mL EtOH 25 mL and water 1 mL was degassed under high vacuum. KCO 4.5 g 32.5 mmol 3 0.97 g 5.8 mmol and PhP Pd 0.29 g 0.25 mmol were added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 5 h. TLC analysis 4 1 hexane EtOAc R 2 0.5 R 4 0.3 . The reaction mixture was filtered through a short pad of silica gel and washed with 5 EtOAc hexane. The filtrate was concentrated and the crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 20 EtOAc hexane to afford 3.0 g 98 of 4 as an off white highly fluorescent solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.6 8.4 m 2H 7.65 m 2H 7.57 br s 4H 7.05 m 2H 7.90 m 2H 4.22 br s 2H 3.4 3.1 m 6H 2.90 m 2H 1.8 1.3 m 26H ppm.

To a suspension of 60 NaH 0.67 g 17.0 mmol in anhydrous DMF 10 mL was added a solution of 4 3.0 g 4.2 mmol in DMF 10 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 1 h then re cooled to 0 C. A solution containing 5 2.8 g 16.8 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added to the reaction mixture and the ice bath was removed following addition. After 2 h at ambient temperature LC MS and TLC analyses revealed complete consumption of 4. TLC analysis 2 1 hexane EtOAc R 4 0.4 R 6 0.8 . The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and saturated aqueous NHCl was added. The product was extracted with diethyl ether. The ether extracts were washed with water brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by NP HPLC silica gel 10 100 EtOAc hexane over 30 min to afford 1.4 g of 6 as an off white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.68 m 2H 7.54 s 4H 7.12 m 2H 6.94 m 2H 4.25 m 4H 4.14 m 6H 3.4 3.1 6H 2.60 dd J 9.6 13.8 Hz 2H 1.90 s 6H 1.83 m 2H 1.7 1.3 m 24H ppm.

A solution containing 6 1.4 g 1.58 mmol in DCM 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. TFA 5 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 6 2 h . TLC analysis 10 MeOH DCM Rf 6 0.7 Rf 7 0.2. The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCO3 and once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were back extracted with EtOAc and the organic extracts were dried over anhydrous Na2SO4 filtered and concentrated to afford 1.2 g quant. of 7 as a yellow solid which was used without further purification. 1H NMR CDCl3 300 MHz 8.05 dd J 8.4 5.4 Hz 2H 7.56 s 4H 7.13 dd J 9.9 2.4 Hz 2H 6.99 m 2H 4.60 d J 9.9 Hz 2H 4.51 m 2H 4.26 m 4H 4.15 m 4H 3.63 m 2H 3.54 m 2H 3.5 3.3 m 4H 2.41 m 2H 1.89 s 6H 1.8 1.5 m 6H 1.43 s 18H 1.09 s 18H ppm.

A solution containing Boc tert Leu OH 0.82 g 3.54 mmol and HATU 1.41 g 3.70 mmol in anhydrous NMP 15 mL was cooled to 0 C. After 15 min N methylmorpholine 0.46 g 0.5 mL 4.54 mmol was added via syringe. After 15 min a solution containing 7 1.10 g 1.61 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature over 16 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 7 TLC analysis 2 1 hexane EtOAc R 7 0.01 R 8 0.8 . The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed once with dilute aqueous HCl five times with water to remove excess NMP once with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by NP HPLC silica gel 10 100 EtOAc hexane over 30 min to afford 1.3 g 73 of 8 as an off white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.05 dd J 5.4 8.4 Hz 2H 7.56 s 4H 7.11 dd J 2.4 9.9 Hz 2H 6.98 m 2H 5.43 d J 9.9 Hz 2H 4.51 m 2H 4.26 m 6H 4.17 m 6H 3.2 3.7 m 8H 2.41 dd J 12 13 Hz 2H 1.88 s 6H 1.7 1.5 m 4H 1.43 s 18H 1.04 s 18H ppm.

A solution containing 8 1.3 g 1.17 mmol in DCM 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. 20 TFA in DCM 25 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 8 2 h . TLC analysis 10 MeOH DCM R 8 0.7 R 9 0.3. The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was purified by RP HPLC Method Solvent A water w 0.1 v v HOAc Solvent B ACN w 0.1 v v HOAc. Dynamax Microsorb C18 60 8 41.4 mm 25 cm Flow 40 mL min Detector 254 nm . The product containing fractions were pooled and neutralized with saturated aqueous NaHCO. The product was extracted with EtOAc and the organic extract was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.80 g 75 of 9 as an off white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.09 dd J 5.1 8.7 Hz 2H 7.51 s 4H 7.13 m 2H 7.0 m 2H 4.41 m 2H 4.25 m 4H 4.16 m 4H 3.6 3.0 m 6H 2.86 m 2H 2.39 m 2H 1.91 s 6H 1.8 1.4 m 12H 1.04 s 18H ppm.

A solution containing Boc N Me Ala OH 0.27 g 1.32 mmol and HATU 0.54 g 1.43 mmol in anhydrous NMP 15 mL was cooled to 0 C. After 15 min N methylmorpholine 0.17 g 0.2 mL 1.68 mmol was added via syringe. After 15 min a solution containing 9 0.50 g 0.55 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature over 16 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 9 TLC analysis 3 2 hexane EtOAc R 9 0.01 R 10 0.5 . The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed once with dilute aqueous HCl five times with water to remove excess NMP once with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by NP HPLC silica gel 10 100 EtOAc hexane over 30 min to afford 0.64 g 91 of 10 as an off white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.05 m 2H 7.58 br s 4H 7.13 m 2H 6.97 m 2H 4.75 m 2H 4.60 d J 9.3 Hz 2H 4.50 m 2H 4.25 m 4H 4.16 m 4H 3.70 m 2H 3.57 m 2H 3.5 3.2 m 4H 2.85 br s 6H 2.42 m 2H 1.88 s 6H 1.8 1.4 m 8H 1.52 s 18H 1.33 m 6H 1.04 br s 18H ppm.

A solution containing 10 0.64 g 0.5 mmol in DCM 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. TFA 5 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 10 2 h . The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was purified by RP HPLC Method Solvent A water w 0.1 v v HOAc Solvent B ACN w 0.1 v v HOAc. Dynamax Microsorb C18 60 8 41.4 mm 25 cm Flow 40 mL min Detector 254 nm . The product containing fractions were pooled and neutralized with saturated aqueous NaHCO. The product was extracted with EtOAc and the organic extract was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.50 g 93 of 11 as an off white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.04 m 2H 7.83 d J 9.3 Hz 2H 7.55 m 4H 7.12 m 2H 6.99 m 2H 4.60 d J 9.3 Hz 2H 4.57 m 2H 4.24 m 4H 3.73 m 2H 3.55 m 2H 3.41 m 2H 3.30 m 2H 3.08 m 2H 2.40 s 6H 2.38 m 2H 1.87 s 6H 1.8 1.3 m 16H 1.04 br s 18H ppm.

Aqueous NaOH 1 M 5 mL excess was added at 0 C. to a solution containing 11 0.48 g 0.44 mmol in MeOH 5 mL . Following the addition the ice bath was removed and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water EtOAc and the layers were separated. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by RP HPLC Method Solvent A water w 0.1 v v HOAc Solvent B ACN w 0.1 v v HOAc. Dynamax Microsorb C18 60 8 41.4 mm 25 cm Flow 40 mL min Detector 254 nm . The product containing fractions were pooled frozen and lyophilized to afford 0.19 g of 12 as a flocculent white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz ppm. C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 7.8 7.4 m 8H 7.11 m 2H 6.95 m 2H 4.57 d J 9.3 Hz 2H 4.4 4.0 m 6H 3.8 3.4 m 8H 3.2 3.0 m 3H 2.6 2.4 m 14H 2.38 m 6H 2.2 1.5 m 12H 1.29 d J 6.9 Hz 6H 1.00 s 18H ppm.

where R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

where R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or in some instances the R5a and R5b residues are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino 

R11a and R11b are absent or independently H alkyl optionally substituted alkyl hydroxyalkyl alkoxyalkyl or R11a and R11b together form an alkylene alkenylene alkynlyene or alkyloxyalkylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

Wa and Wb together are a bond alkylene alkenylene alkynylene aryl heteroaryl or an optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

where R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or in some instances the R5a and R5b residues are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino 

R11a and R11b are independently absent H alkyl optionally substituted alkyl hydroxyalkyl alkoxyalkyl or R11a and R11b together form an alkylene alkenylene alkynlyene or alkyloxyalkylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

Wa and Wb together are a bond alkylene alkenylene alkynylene aryl heteroaryl or an optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or in some instances the R5a and R5b residues are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino 

R11a and R11b are independently absent H alkyl optionally substituted alkyl hydroxyalkyl alkoxyalkyl or R11a and R11b together form an alkylene alkenylene alkynlyene or alkyloxyalkylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

Wa and Wb together are a bond alkylene alkenylene alkynylene aryl heteroaryl or an optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S.

A 2 L 3 necked round bottomed flask equipped with an overhead stirred and a nitrogen inlet was charged with a solution of oxalyl chloride 130 mL g 0.26 mol in DCM 250 mL . The solution was cooled to 78 C. A solution of DMSO 20 mL 0.28 mol in DCM 30 mL was added dropwise. After 30 min a solution of alcohol 13 40 g 0.20 mol in DCM 200 mL was added dropwise. After 30 min TEA 140 mL 1.00 mol was added to the solution. The solution was transferred to an ice water bath 0 C. and stirring was continued for 30 min NB reaction mixture was a thick white slurry . TLC analysis revealed no remaining starting material 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 13 0.4 R aldehyde 0.6 . The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 200 mL and washed successively with HO 1 M HCl saturated NaHCO and brine. The DCM layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 2 formyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 40 g as an oil which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.50 d J 24 Hz 1H 4.20 4.03 m 1H 3.60 3.40 m 2H 2.20 1.87 m 4H 1.43 s 9H ppm.

A 2 L 3 necked round bottomed flask equipped with an overhead stirred and nitrogen inlet was charged with NaH 60 10.0 g 0.25 mol and anhydrous THF 200 mL . To the stirred mixture was slowly added triethylphosphonoacetate 53.8 g 0.24 mol over 20 minutes. A solution of crude 2 formyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 40 g 0.20 mol in THF 75 mL was added dropwise. The solution turned orange and the stirring was continued for 1 h until no aldehyde remained by TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R aldehyde 0.6 R 14 0.8 . The solution was diluted with EtOAc and brine and the layers were separated. The EtOAc layer was washed with 1M HCl brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 14 67 g as a yellow oil which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 6.92 6.76 m 1H 5.82 d 1H 4.56 4.32 m 1H 4.25 4.12 m 2H 3.48 3.27 m 2H 2.20 1.98 m 1H 1.91 1.72 m 2H 1.43 s 9H 1.25 t 3H ppm.

A 2 L 3 necked round bottomed flask equipped with an overhead stirred was charged with 14 67 g 0.20 mol and DCM 400 mL . The solution was cooled to 78 C. To this solution was slowly added boron trifluoride etherate 30 mL 0.20 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. DIBAL 1 M in DCM 600 mL 0.6 mol was added at a moderate rate. The solution was stirred at 78 C. for 2 h and then treated with EtOAc 100 mL over 30 min to discharge remaining reagent. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 5 C. The reaction mixture was CAREFULLY quenched by the dropwise addition of 1 M HCl. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and HO and made acidic to dissolve aluminum salts. The layers were separated and the organic phase was washed successively with dilute aqueous HCl water and brine. The DCM layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography SiO 25 to 80 EtOAc hexane to afford 15 as a yellow oil 36 g 79 . TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 14 0.8 R 15 0.2 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 5.73 5.52 m 2H 4.39 4.16 m 1H 4.15 4.04 m 2H 3.46 3.25 m 2H 2.92 br s 1H 2.08 1.93 m 1H 1.92 1.79 m 2H 1.78 1.62 m 1H 1.42 s 9H ppm.

To a solution of 15 19 g 84 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added triethylamine 10 g 13.9 mL 100 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and methanesulfonyl chloride 9.6 g 6.5 mL 84 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added dropwise. After 1 h TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 15 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 15 0.2 R 16 0.6 . Brine was added and the product was extracted with DCM 3 50 mL . The organic extracts were combined and washed with 1 N HCl water brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 21.4 g of 16 which was used without purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.4 4.0 m 2H 3.42 3.21 m 3H 3.0 s 3H 2.00 1.6 m 4H 1.42 s 9H ppm.

To a suspension of 60 NaH 9.2 g 0.23 mol in anhydrous DMF 150 mL at 0 C. was added 2 bromo 5 fluoroacetanilide 17 53.4 g 0.23 mol in small portions. After 1 h a solution of crude mesylate 16 approx. 0.19 mol in DMF 20 mL was added in a dropwise fashion from an addition funnel. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was recooled to 0 C. and carefully quenched by the addition of brine and neutralized by the addition of dilute aqueous HCl until pH 7. The mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and water and the layers were separated. The organic phase was washed several times with water to remove DMF followed by washing with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 0.5 to 2 MeOH DCM to afford 66 g of 18 as an oil. TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 16 0.5 R 17 0.6 R 18 0.4 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.64 m 1H 7.01 m 2H 5.52 m 1H 5.39 app dd J 6.0 15.3 Hz 1H 4.77 app dd J 4.5 13.8 Hz 1H 4.24 m 1H 3.67 app dd J 7.5 13.8 Hz 1H 3.32 m 2H 1.90 m 1H 1.81 m 3H 1.75 m 2H 1.57 m 1H 1.43 m 9H ppm.

Under a nitrogen atmosphere a solution of 18 66 g 0.15 mol in anhydrous DMF 350 mL was charged with n Bu NCl 41.5 g 0.15 mol KCO 20.6 g 0.15 mol NaHCO 10.2 g 0.15 mol and Pd OAc 3.35 g 0.015 mol at ambient temperature. The heterogeneous mixture was immersed in a pre heated 85 C. oil bath. After 1 h TLC analysis revealed some 18 remained therefore more catalyst 1 g was added. After 1.5 h another charge of catalyst 0.6 g was added. After an additional 1.5 h of heating 18 had been completely consumed by TLC analysis TLC analysis 2 MeOH DCM R 18 0.7 R 19 0.8 . The warm reaction mixture was transferred to an ice water bath to cool then diluted with diethyl ether and filtered through a pad of celite. The solids were washed with diethyl ether and the filtrate was washed several times with water to remove DMF then once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 52.5 g of crude 19 which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.18 m 1H 7.60 m 1H 7.18 m 1H 7.05 dt J 2.4 8.7 Hz 1H 4.13 m 1H 3.41 m 1H 3.33 m 2H 3.17 app dd J 14.1 38.1 Hz 1H 2.61 s 3H 1.83 m 3H 1.69 m 1H 1.49 s 9H ppm.

A solution containing crude 19 48 g in reagent grade MeOH 480 mL was cooled to 0 C. Aqueous NaOH 1 M 144 mL was added in one portion. After 30 min TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of starting material TLC analysis 3 2 hexane EtOAc R 19 0.7 R 20 0.8 . The reaction mixture was neutralized with 1 N HCl and the product was extracted with DCM. The DCM extracts were washed with water brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was absorbed onto 200 mL of silica gel and chromatographed 80 to 65 hexane EtOAc to afford 31.7 g of 20 as a thick oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.11 br s 1H 7.65 7.57 m 1H 7.04 m 1H 6.96 s 1H 6.87 t J 2.8 Hz 1H 4.16 4.09 m 1H 3.45 3.14 m 3H 2.76 2.63 m 1H 1.75 br s 4H 1.58 s 9H ppm.

Under a nitrogen atmosphere a solution of 20 3.0 g 9.42 mmol in anhydrous DMF 40 mL was added via addition funnel to a mixture of 60 NaH 0.45 g 11.3 mmol in DMF 10 mL at 0 C. After 1 h bromide 21 2.47 g 2.22 mL 10.3 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added via syringe. After 30 min the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred for an additional 30 min. The reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous NHCl and diluted with water. The product was extracted with diethyl ether and the combined ether extracts were washed several times with water to remove DMF brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 4.49 g quant. of 22 as a yellow oil which was used without further purification. TLC analysis 3 1 hexane EtOAc R 20 0.4 R 22 0.7 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.68 m 1H 7.12 d J 3.3 Hz 1H 7.03 s 1H 6.98 t J 3.2 Hz 1H 4.26 4.23 m 3H 4.05 3.99 m 2H 3.55 3.27 m 3H 2.75 m 1H 1.88 br s 4H 1.67 s 9H 1.33 m 1H 1.06 1.00 m 3H 0.95 s 9H 0.23 0.14 m 2H ppm.

A solution containing 22 4.49 g 9.42 mmol in anhydrous THF 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. Tetra n butylammonium fluoride 1 M in THF 14 mL 14 mmol was added via syringe. After 1 h reaction complete by TLC analysis 3 1 hexane EtOAc R 22 0.7 R 23 0.1 therefore diluted with EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with 1 M HCl water brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 3.9 g of 23 100 contaminated with some TBS containing impurities as a tan colored oil which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.59 br s 1H 7.01 6.85 m 3H 4.19 4.10 m 3H 3.90 br s 2H 3.38 3.31 m 2H 3.15 dd J 1.4 4.6 Hz 1H 2.68 m 1H 1.79 1.72 m 4H 1.47 d J 10.9 Hz 9H ppm.

Triethylamine 1.13 g 1.56 mL 11.2 mmol was added to a solution of 23 3.4 g 9.38 mmol in anhydrous DCM 50 mL at 0 C. followed by the addition of p TsCl 1.79 g 9.38 mmol and DMAP 0.12 g 0.94 mmol . After 30 min the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature. Upon complete consumption of 23 30 min at ambient temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and washed twice with 1 M HCl brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude tosylate was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 3 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 3.67 g 76 of 24 as a white foam which was homogeneous by TLC analysis 3 1 hexane EtOAc R 23 0.1 R 24 0.3 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.64 7.45 m 3H 7.11 t J 2.5 Hz 2H 6.85 dd J 0.8 3.3 Hz 1H 6.79 s 1H 6.73 t J 3.6 Hz 1H 4.25 s 4H 4.08 br s 1H 3.34 br d J 9.6 Hz 2H 3.20 3.09 m 1H 2.64 2.57 m 1H 2.36 s 1H 1.75 br s 4H 1.53 s 9H ppm.

To a suspension of 60 NaH 0.34 g 8.50 mmol in anhydrous DMF 20 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of 20 2.47 g 7.75 mmol in DMF 30 mL via addition funnel. After 1 h the reaction mixture was transferred to a 40 C. bath ACN dry ice . At 40 C. a solution of tosylate 24 3.65 g 7.06 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added to the cold anion solution from an addition funnel. After 30 min only starting materials observed by TLC analysis therefore slowly warmed to 0 C. over 2 h. After 2 3 h at 0 C. the reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous NHCl. The mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and water and the layers were separated. The ether layer was washed several times with water to remove DMF then once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by normal phase HPLC 10 100 EtOAc hexane over 30 min to afford 3.27 g 70 of 25 as a white foam which was homogeneous by TLC analysis 3 1 hexane EtOAc two developments R 20 0.8 R 24 0.55 R 25 0.5 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.61 7.52 m 1H 6.82 t J 9.6 Hz 1H 6.68 6.61 m 1H 6.48 6.46 m 1H 4.34 s 2H 3.93 m 1H 3.34 3.26 m 2H 3.17 3.01 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.70 1.58 m 4H 1.50 s 9H ppm.

Trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL was added at 0 C. to a solution containing 25 3.27 g 4.93 mmol in DCM 10 mL . After 3 h an additional portion of TFA 2 mL was added and the reaction was complete within 1 h. The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was dissolved in DCM and washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCO once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 26 as a yellow foam which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.31 dd J 5.1 8.7 Hz 1H 6.92 s 1H 6.77 ddd J 2.4 9.6 11.1 Hz 1H 6.44 dd J 2.4 9.9 Hz 1H 4.41 s 2H 3.65 3.55 m 1H 3.24 3.16 m 1H 3.01 2.96 m 1H 2.92 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 2.15 1.99 m 1H 1.96 1.84 m 2H 1.76 1.67 m 1H ppm.

At 0 C. TFAA 2.17 g 1.44 mL 10.3 mmol was added to a solution containing 26 2.28 g 4.93 mmol based on theoretical yield from previous step and TEA 2.49 g 3.43 mL 24.6 mmol in DCM 50 mL . After 30 min the reaction mixture is diluted with DCM and washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCO once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 4 1 to 1 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 2.66 g 82 2 steps of 27 which was homogeneous by TLC analysis 2 1 hexane EtOAc R 26 0.01 R 27 0.5 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.70 dd J 5.4 9.0 Hz 1H 6.84 ddd J 1.8 9.3 10.5 Hz 1H 6.62 dd J 1.8 10.2 Hz 1H 6.44 s 1H 4.36 s 2H 4.29 4.28 m 1H 3.60 app t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.23 dd J 2.4 14.1 Hz 1H 2.51 dd J 9.9 14.1 Hz 1H 1.92 1.84 m 2H 1.72 1.66 m 1H 1.57 1.56 m 1H ppm.

Acyclic dimer 27 2.66 g 4.06 mmol was dissolved in neat TFA 25 mL at ambient temperature. After 3 h the solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the resultant residue was dissolved in EtOAc washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCO once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 2.65 g quant. of the diastereomeric indolylindolines as a yellow foam. TLC analysis 3 1 hexane EtOAc R 27 0.3 R indolylindolines 0.6 0.7 .

To a mixture of crude indolylindolines 2.65 g 4.05 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 50 mL was added DDQ 1.10 g 4.84 mmol in one portion. After 2 3 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a pad of celite. The solids were washed with EtOAc and the filtrate was washed five times with saturated aqueous NaHCO then once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were re extracted twice with EtOAc and the combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 4 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 1.94 g 73 2 steps of 28 as an off white solid which was homogeneous by TLC analysis 2 1 hexane EtOAc R indolylindolines 0.6 0.7 R 28 0.55 . NB The product 2 2 biindole 28 is quite fluorescent and is easily purified by trituration with reagent grade MeOH to afford a white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.06 dd J 5.1 8.1 Hz 1H 7.03 6.93 m 2H 4.49 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.40 m 1H 4.12 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 3.75 3.69 m 2H 3.57 3.51 m 2H 2.85 dd J 10.5 12.9 Hz 1H 1.78 1.74 m 2H 1.51 1.45 m 1H ppm.

A mixture containing 28 1.94 g 2.97 mmol and KCO 2.05 g 14.8 mmol in MeOH 60 mL was heated at 60 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and diluted with EtOAc and water. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 1.57 g quant. of 29 as a yellow solid which was used without further purification. TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 28 0.9 R 29 0.01. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.65 m 1H 6.98 app d J 8.2 Hz 1H 6.90 app t J 8.3 Hz 1H 4.31 s 2H 3.97 br s 3H 3.54 m 1H 3.31 m 1H 3.14 m 1H 2.97 m 1H 1.83 m 1H 1.68 m 2H 1.42 m 1H ppm. C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 160.6 d J 238.7 Hz 136.2 d J 12.0 Hz 127.1 125.4 120.8 d J 10.2 Hz 109.8 108.9 d J 24.6 Hz 95.3 d J 26.3 Hz 59.6 45.6 41.6 31.0 30.7 24.5 ppm.

A solution containing Boc Val OH 0.69 g 3.18 mmol and HATU 1.27 g 3.34 mmol in anhydrous NMP 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. After 15 min DIPEA 0.45 g 0.61 mL 3.50 mmol was added via syringe. After 15 min a solution containing 29 0.70 g 1.52 mmol in NMP 4 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature over 2 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 29 TLC analysis 2 1 hexane EtOAc R 29 0.01 R 30 0.5 . The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed once with dilute aqueous HCl five times with water to remove excess NMP once with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 3 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 1.09 g 83 of 30 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.04 dd J 5.1 8.7 Hz 1H 6.98 m 2H 5.33 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 4.50 m 1H 4.49 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.24 dd J 7.2 9.3 Hz 1H 4.11 m 2H 3.67 dd J 3.0 13.5 Hz 1H 3.56 m 2H 2.73 app t J 12.9 Hz 1H 1.99 dd J 7.2 13.5 Hz 1H 1.70 1.17 m 2H 1.43 s 9H 1.01 d J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 7.5 Hz 3H ppm. C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 171.2 160.4 d J 238 Hz 155.7 136.6 d J 12.0 Hz 127.2 124.8 122.0 d J 9.7 Hz 109.2 108.5 d J 24.0 Hz 95.0 d J 26.3 Hz 79.4 57.7 56.9 47.3 41.7 31.8 29.7 28.4 28.3 23.8 19.7 17.7 ppm.

A solution containing 30 1.09 g 1.27 mmol in DCM 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. TFA 4 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 30 2 h . TLC analysis 10 MeOH DCM R 30 0.5 R 31 0.4. The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCOand once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were back extracted with EtOAc and the organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.83 g quant. of 31 as a yellow solid which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.09 dd J 5.1 8.7 Hz 1H 6.97 m 2H 4.52 m 1H 4.50 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4.11 m 1H 3.71 br d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.51 3.32 m 2H 2.74 app t J 12.6 Hz 1H 2.30 br s 4H 1.92 m 1H 1.68 m 2H 1.41 m 1H 1.03 m 6H ppm. C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 174.3 171.4 160.6 d J 232.5 Hz 136.8 d J 7.5 Hz 127.4 d J 3.7 Hz 125.0 122.4 d J 7.5 Hz 109.6 108.7 d J 22.5 Hz 95.2 d J 22.5 Hz 58.0 47.3 41.9 30.0 28.5 28.5 24.1 19.9 17.6 ppm.

A solution containing Boc N Me Ala OH 0.49 g 2.45 mmol and HATU 0.98 g 2.56 mmol in anhydrous NMP 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. After 15 min DIPEA 0.35 g 0.47 mL 2.69 mmol was added via syringe. After 15 min a solution containing 31 0.77 g 1.17 mmol in NMP 4 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature over 2 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 31 TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 31 0.01 R 32 0.5 . The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed once with dilute aqueous HCl five times with water to remove excess NMP once with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 1 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 0.92 g 76 of 32 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.05 m 1H 7.65 6.90 m 2H 4.53 m 3H 4.13 m 1H 3.70 3.52 m 4H 2.82 m 2H 2.72 app t J 11.1 Hz 1H 1.70 m 1H 1.64 s 3H 1.53 s 9H 1.45 1.25 m 2H 1.34 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.05 0.88 m 6H ppm. C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 171.3 170.4 160.4 d J 232.5 Hz 136.6 d J 7.5 Hz 127.2 124.7 122.1 109.2 108.5 d J 22.5 Hz 95.0 d J 22.5 Hz 57.8 55.5 47.4 41.7 31.6 29.9 29.7 28.4 23.8 19.3 18.0 ppm.

A solution containing 32 0.92 g 0.89 mmol in DCM 15 mL was cooled to 0 C. TFA 3 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 32 3 h . TLC analysis 10 MeOH DCM R 32 0.4 R 33 0.3. The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCOand once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were back extracted with EtOAc and the organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.73 g of crude 33. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC Method Solvent A water w 0.1 v v HOAc Solvent B ACN w 0.1 v v HOAc. Dynamax Microsorb C18 60 8 41.4 mm 25 cm Flow 40 mL min Detector 272 nm . The product containing fractions were diluted with saturated aqueous NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The EtOAc extract was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in a minimum amount of ACN diluted with water until cloudy frozen and lyophilized to afford 33 as a flocculent white solid. H NMR DMSO 300 MHz 8.04 7.86 m 2H 7.38 app dd J 2.3 10.5 Hz 1H 6.90 app dt J 2.3 9.9 Hz 1H 4.68 app d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4.34 4.23 m 2H 3.98 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.46 m 2H 2.94 app q J 6.4 Hz 1H 2.70 t J 12.8 Hz 1H 2.12 s 3H 1.94 m 1H 1.58 m 2H 1.35 m 1H 1.16 1.07 m 2H 1.03 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.85 m 6H ppm. C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 175.0 170.8 160.6 d J 232.5 Hz 136.8 d J 7.5 Hz 127.4 d J 3.7 Hz 125.0 122.3 d J 7.5 Hz 109.5 108.7 d J 22.5 Hz 95.2 d J 22.5 Hz 60.4 57.9 55.3 47.6 42.0 35.2 31.7 30.0 28.6 24.0 19.7 19.6 18.2 ppm. Mass spectrum m z 415.6 M 2 2.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or optionally R5a and R5b are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH and

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or optionally R5a and R5b are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH and

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino.

A solution containing Boc allyl Gly OH 0.115 g 0.53 mmol and HATU 0.20 g 0.53 mmol in anhydrous NMP 3 mL was cooled to 0 C. After 10 min diisopropylethylamine 0.1 mL 0.58 mmol was added via syringe. After 5 min a solution containing 29 0.11 g 0.23 mmol in NMP 3 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature over 16 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 29 TLC analysis 5 MeOH DCM R 29 0.4 . The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed once with saturated aqueous NaHCO once with dilute aqueous HCl and twice with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC Dynamax Microsorb C18 60 8 41.4 mm 250 mm Flow 40 mL min Detector 254 nm 20 100 gradient of ACN water with 0.1 AcOH over 30 min . The product containing fractions were diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.067 g 73 of 34 as a light yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.06 dd J 5.4 8.7 Hz 1H 7.02 6.92 m 2H 5.88 5.79 m 1H 5.42 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.19 5.11 m 2H 4.49 dd J 6.9 15.9 Hz 2H 4.16 4.08 m 1H 3.65 3.41 m 3H 2.75 app t J 12.9 Hz 1H 2.54 2.35 m 2H 1.75 1.68 m 3H 1.46 1.43 m 9H 1.21 1.19 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 877.7 M Na .

To a solution of 34 0.067 g 0.08 mmol in anhydrous DCM 30 mL was added the first generation Grubbs catalyst 9.2 mg 0.01 mmol 12 mol at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 6 h at which time TLC analysis revealed mostly starting material. Additional Grubbs catalyst 7 mg 0.009 mmol 11 mol was then added to the reaction mixture. After 2 d the solvent was evaporated and the crude residue was purified by NP HPLC SiO 20 hexane EtOAc to 100 EtOAc over 20 min to afford the desired olefins 35 olefin isomers 15 mg and 24 mg as a separable mixture of isomers unassigned olefin geometry as light yellow solids. TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 34 0.7 R 35 0.6 . 35 Isomer A H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.80 app t J 9.0 Hz 1H 7.00 dd J 1.5 11.07 Hz 1H 6.92 ddd J 2.1 9.3 11.2 Hz 1H 5.62 app d J 7.8 Hz 1H 5.56 br s 1H 4.79 m 1H 4.56 4.47 m 2H 4.12 app d J 6.9 Hz 1H 3.85 dd J 3.6 13.5 Hz 1H 3.52 3.49 m 1H 3.41 m 1H 2.73 m 1H 2.45 2.40 m 2H 1.70 1.64 m 4H 1.44 s 9H 1.07 1.05 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 849.7 M Na . 35 Isomer B H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.85 br s 1H 7.0 dd J 1.5 9.3 Hz 1H 6.92 ddd J 2.4 9.3 11.1 Hz 1H 5.66 br s 1H 5.56 app d J 7.5 Hz 1H 4.80 br s 1H 4.62 4.51 m 2H 4.17 4.09 m 1H 3.75 3.52 m 3H 2.69 2.60 m 2H 2.47 app d J 15.3 Hz 1H 1.69 m 3H 1.45 s 9H 1.18 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 849.7 M Na .

To a solution of olefin 35 Isomer A 15 mg 0.02 mmol in EtOAc 5 mL was added 5 Pd C 25 mg . The reaction mixture was shaken under a Hatmosphere using a Parr apparatus 45 50 PSI . After 2.5 h TLC analysis revealed unreacted starting material. Additional 5 Pd C 20 mg was then added and the mixture was again subjected to hydrogenation using a Parr apparatus. After 1.5 h the mixture was filtered through Celite and the solids were rinsed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give 36 as a light yellow solid.

Isomer B 24 mg 0.03 mmol was subjected to the same reaction conditions and workup procedures as described for Isomer A. The product 36 was combined with that from the hydrogenation of Isomer A. Compound 36 was isolated as a light yellow solid 35 mg 85 . TLC analysis 1 1 hexane EtOAc R 36 0.3 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.85 dd J 5.4 8.1 Hz 1H 7.00 dd J 1.8 9.9 Hz 1H 6.92 ddd J 2.4 9.2 11.1 1H 5.70 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 4.79 4.78 m 1H 4.57 4.51 m 2H 4.13 4.09 m 1H 3.75 dd J 3.6 12.9 Hz 1H 3.53 3.41 m 2H 2.49 app t J 12.3 Hz 1H 1.68 1.62 m 3H 1.46 s 9H 1.08 1.02 m 1H 0.93 0.89 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 851.7 M Na .

A solution containing 36 0.035 g 0.04 mmol in DCM 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. TFA 1 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 36 1 h . The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCOand once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were back extracted with EtOAc and the organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.025 g quant. of 37 as a yellow solid which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.92 7.87 m 1H 7.00 dd J 2.1 9.9 Hz 1H 6.91 ddd J 2.4 9.3 11.1 Hz 1H 4.81 m 1H 4.52 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.13 4.09 m 1H 3.79 3.76 m 2H 3.42 3.39 m 2H 2.50 app t J 12.9 Hz 1H 1.89 m 4H 1.65 1.61 m 3H 1.33 1.24 m 4H 1.09 1.03 m 1H 0.94 0.82 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 315.3 M H 2 m z 629.5 M H .

A solution containing Boc N methyl Ala OH 0.022 g 0.11 mmol and HATU 0.03 g 0.09 mmol in anhydrous NMP 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. After 10 min diisopropylethylamine 0.05 mL 0.29 mmol was added via syringe. After 5 min a solution containing 37 0.025 g 0.04 mmol in NMP 3 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature over 24 h at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 37 TLC analysis 5 MeOH DCM R 38 0.3 . The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed once with saturated aqueous NaHCO once with dilute aqueous HCl and twice with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 38 as a yellow oil 35 mg which was used without further purification.

A solution containing 38 0.035 g 0.04 mmol in DCM 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. TFA 1 mL was added via pipette and the reaction was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and monitored until TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 38 2 h . The solvent was removed on a rotary evaporator and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCOand once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were back extracted with EtOAc and the organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 39 as a yellow solid. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC Dynamax Microsorb C18 60 8 41.4 mm 250 mm Flow 40 mL min Detector 254 nm 20 100 gradient of ACN water with 0.1 AcOH over 30 min . The product containing fractions were diluted with EtOAc and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The material was dissolved in a minimum amount of ACN diluted with water frozen and lyophilized to afford 39 as a white flocculent solid 0.002 g . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.16 app d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.90 7.86 m 1H 7.00 app d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.93 ddd J 3.0 7.5 9.0 Hz 1H 4.80 m 2H 4.52 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.11 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 3.79 dd J 3.9 12.9 Hz 1H 3.51 m 1H 3.44 m 1H 3.11 3.09 m 1H 2.46 s 3H 1.35 1.25 m 8H 1.06 m 1H 0.89 0.85 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 400.5 M 2 m z 799.7 M m z 821.7 M Na .

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

Z is a bond an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene group of 1 to 6 atoms or an optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene or alkynylene group of 1 to 6 carbon atoms a sulfide S sulfoxide SO sulfone SO or disulfide SS group an aryl arylalkylene heteroaryl heteroarylalkylene or an optionally substituted aryl arylalkylene heteroaryl heteroarylalkylene group an amino or substituted amino group an oxygen atom 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxyl alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH and

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or optionally R5a and R5b are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH and

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino.

To a solution of 40 0.150 g 0.319 mmol in THF 2 mL was added propargyl bromide 0.06 mL 0.410 mmol 80 wt toluene followed by NaH 0.015 g 0.410 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil . The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. Water 2 mL was added to the reaction mixture and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL . The ethyl acetate extracts were washed with water brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by HPLC. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.0 s 1H 7.9 d J 9.9 Hz 1H 7.38 d J 9.9 Hz 1H 7.3 7.1 m 3H 6.8 m 1H 4.8 s 2H 4.62 m 1H 4.5 4.4 m 1H 4.4 4.0 m 2H 3.7 3.5 m 2H 3.4 m 1H 2.5 m 1H 2.4 s 1H 2.2 1.8 m 4H 1.48 s 9H 1.35 d J 9.9 Hz 3H 1.05 d J 5.5 Hz 3H 0.95 d J 5.5 Hz 3H ppm.

To a solution of 41 0.040 g 0.077 mmol in acetonitrile 2 mL was added copper II acetate 0.070 g 0.385 mmol and the reaction mixture was immersed in a preheated oil bath 100 C. and refluxed for 5 min. Water was then added to the reaction mixture 2 mL and the product was extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The organic extracts were washed with aqueous NHOH 5 mL water brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the crude product. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.0 s 2H 7.9 d J 9.9 Hz 2H 7.38 d J 9.9 Hz 2H 7.3 7.1 m 6H 6.8 m 2H 4.8 s 4H 4.62 m 2H 4.5 4.4 m 2H 4.4 4.0 m 4H 3.7 3.5 m 4H 3.4 m 2H 2.5 m 2H 2.2 1.8 m 8H 1.48 s 18H 1.35 d J 9.9H 6H 1.05 d J 5.5 Hz 6H 0.95 d J 5.5 Hz 6H ppm.

To a solution of 42 0.030 g 0.029 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added TFA 1 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. Aqueous NaHCO 3 mL was then added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with water and the product was extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . The organic extracts were washed with water brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The solvent was removed on rotary evaporator and the product was purified by reverse phase HPLC. H NMR DMSO 300 MHz 8.0 s 2H 7.9 d J 9.9 Hz 2H 7.38 d J 9.9 Hz 2H 7.3 7.1 m 6H 6.8 m 2H 4.8 s 4H 4.62 m 2H 4.5 4.4 m 2H 4.4 4.0 m 4H 3.7 3.5 m 4H 3.4 m 2H 2.5 m 2H 2.2 1.8 m 8H 1.35 d J 9.9 Hz 6H 1.05 d J 5.5 Hz 6H 0.95 d J 5.5 Hz 6H ppm.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or optionally R5a and R5b are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R1a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino and

At 0 C. NaH 60 0.025 g 0.62 mmol was added to a solution of indole 45 0.17 g 0.56 mmol in anhydrous DMF 5 mL . After 1 h bromoethyl ether 0.16 g 0.68 mmol and n BuNCl 0.021 g 0.05 mmol were added in rapid succession. The reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm to ambient temperature and stirring was continued for 16 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous NHCl and the product was extracted with diethyl ether. The combined ether extracts were washed repeatedly with water to remove excess DMF then brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was combined with material formed under similar reaction conditions 0.11 g 45 0.36 mmol and purified by normal phase HPLC 10 100 EtOAc hexane to afford 0.18 g of 46 as a colorless oil and 0.18 g of the mono alkylated indole. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.75 7.66 m 2H 7.25 7.07 m 6H 6.85 6.80 m 2H 4.13 m 8H 3.62 br s 4H 3.40 3.15 m 4H 2.63 m 2H 2.04 br s 4H 1.53 s 18H ppm.

A solution containing 46 0.18 g 0.27 mmol in DCM 8 mL was cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was maintained at 0 C. for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of saturated aqueous NaHCOand the product was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with aq. NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.075 g of 47 as a pale yellow oil. The crude product was used directly in the next reaction. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.49 br s 2H 7.57 app. d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.26 7.052 m 6H 6.82 s 2H 4.11 m 8H 3.57 m 4H 3.29 2.96 m 6H 1.95 1.58 m 8H ppm.

To a solution containing N Boc cyclohexylglycine 0.09 g 0.34 mmol in anhydrous NMP 2 mL was added HATU 0.15 g 0.38 mmol and N methylmorpholine 0.042 g 0.42 mmol . After 15 min 47 0.075 g 0.16 mmol in anhydrous NMP 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and the product was extracted with diethyl ether. The combined ether extracts were washed repeatedly with water to remove excess NMP brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by normal phase HPLC 50 100 EtOAc hexane to afford 0.085 mg of 48 as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.87 d J 7.62 Hz 2H 7.27 7.10 m 6H 6.84 s 2H 5.36 d J 9.37 Hz 2H 4.45 m 2H 4.30 app. t J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.18 4.12 m 6H 3.70 3.58 m 6H 3.35 dd J 14.0 2.9 Hz 2H 2.41 dt J 11.1 2.3 Hz 2H 2.04 1.57 m 20H 1.44 s 18H 1.37 1.07 m 10H ppm.

A solution containing 48 0.085 g 0.08 mmol in DCM 8 mL was cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was maintained at 0 C. for 30 min. An additional portion of TFA 1 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of saturated aqueous NaHCOand the product was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with aq. NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.068 g of 49 as a pale yellow oil. The crude product was used directly in the next reaction. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.90 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.31 7.12 m 6H 6.84 app t J 14 Hz 2H 4.47 m minor rotomer 4.15 m 4H 3.66 3.36 m 8H 2.80 m 2H 2.42 m 2H 2.04 0.83 m 30H ppm.

To a solution containing N Boc N methylalanine 0.041 g 0.19 mmol in anhydrous NMP 2 mL was added HATU 0.083 g 0.21 mmol and N methylmorpholine 0.024 g 0.23 mmol . After 15 min 49 0.068 g 0.09 mmol in anhydrous NMP 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and the product was extracted with diethyl ether. The combined ether extracts were washed repeatedly with water to remove excess NMP brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was combined with material formed under similar reaction conditions 0.05 g 49 0.06 mmol and purified by normal phase HPLC 10 100 EtOAc hexane to afford 32 mg of 50 as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.86 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.27 7.08 m 6H 6.84 s 2H 4.70 m 2H 4.58 app. t J 7.6 Hz 2H 4.19 m 2H 4.15 4.04 m 6H 3.76 3.60 m 6H 3.37 m 2H 2.83 s 6H 2.42 m 2H 1.98 1.55 m 20H 1.51 s 18H 1.33 d J 7.0 Hz 6H 1.30 0.98 m 10H ppm.

A solution containing 50 0.0.062 g 0.055 mmol in DCM 8 mL was cooled to 0 C. Trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was maintained at 0 C. for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of saturated aqueous NaHCOand the product was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with aq. NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 10 100 ACN water w 0.1 HOAc to afford 0.047 g of 51.2HOAc as a white solid following lyophilization. H NMR DMSO 300 MHz 7.91 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.71 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.32 d J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.05 m 2H 6.99 6.92 m 4H 4.39 app. t J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.15 m 6H 3.57 m 4H 3.52 3.23 m 4H 3.06 2.91 m 4H 2.46 s 6H 2.31 m 2H 2.15 s 12H 1.91 1.65 m 12H 1.55 1.49 m 8H 1.07 d J 7.0 Hz 6H 1.16 0.93 m 10H ppm.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or optionally R5a and R5b are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino and

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or optionally R5a and R5b are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino 

R11a and R11b together form an alkylene alkenylene alkynlyene or alkyloxyalkylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynlyene or alkyloxyalkylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S.

Wherein R7a and R7b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl haloalkyl or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R8a and R8b are independently H hydroxyl alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl wherein each alkyl aryl arylalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl is optionally substituted with halogen hydroxyl mercapto carboxyl alkyl alkoxy amino and nitro or R8a and R7a and R8b and R7b can independently or together form a ring such as an aziridine or azetidine ring 

R5a and R5b are independently H alkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or each optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto halogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or in some instances the R5a and R5b residues are connected by an alkylene alkenylene alkynylene of 2 to 12 carbon atoms or optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene bridge of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S 

R12a R12b R13a R13b R14a and R14b are independently H Cl Br F alkyl cycloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino cyano or COH 

R3a and R3b are independently H halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl amino arylamino arylalkylamino hydroxy alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkylhydroxy dialkylamino amido sulfonamido or amidino 

Wb and R11a together are a bond alkylene alkenylene alkynylene aryl arylalkylene arylalkylalkylene heteroaryl heteroarylalkylene or an optionally substituted alkylene alkenylene alkynylene chain of 2 to 12 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S.

In mammalian cells activation of the caspases is achieved through at least two independent mechanisms which are initiated by distinct caspases but result in the activation of common executioner effector caspases. In addition to the cytochrome c activated mechanism sometimes referred to as the intrinsic death pathway the extrinsic death pathway is a mechanism by which the caspase cascade is activated via activation of a death receptor located on the cell membrane. Examples of death receptors include DR4 DR5 and TNF R1 as well as other members of the TNF group of cytokine receptors . The corresponding ligands are TRAIL and TNF respectfully. Binding of pro caspase 8 to the death receptor induces auto activation wherein the inhibitory pro domain of pro caspase 8 is cleaved and removed. Caspase 8 is released from the receptor and can then activate effector caspases caspase 3 6 7 and as in the caspase 9 initiated pathway the result is the proteolytic cleavage of cellular targets by the effector caspases and the induction of apoptosis.

The present invention is directed generally to Smac peptidomimetics methods of making Smac peptidomimetics and uses thereof including methods of making the peptidomimetics described above. In one embodiment of the current invention Smac peptidomimetics herein referred to as Smac mimetic act as chemopotentiating agents. The term chemopotentiating agent refers to an agent that acts to increase the sensitivity of an organism tissue or cell to a chemical compound or treatment namely chemotherapeutic agents or chemo drugs or radiation treatment. One embodiment of the invention is the therapeutic composition of a Smac mimetic. A further embodiment of the invention is the therapeutic composition of a Smac mimetic which can act as a chemopotentiating agent and a biological or chemotherapeutic agent or radiation. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting tumor growth in vivo by administering a Smac peptidomimetic. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting tumor growth in vivo by administering a Smac mimetic and a biologic or chemotherapeutic agent or chemoradiation. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a patient with a cancer by administering Smac mimetics of the present invention alone or in combination with a biological or chemotherapeutic agent or chemoradiation.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention suitable biological and chemotherapeutic agents that can be administered concurrently with Smac mimetics include alkylating agents plant alkaloids anti tumor antibiotics antimetabolites topoisomerase inhibitors hormonal agents NSAIDs growth factors cytokines mitotic inhibitors and combinations of these.

In another embodiment of the present invention the cells are in situ or in an individual and the contacting step is affected by administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the Smac mimetic wherein the individual may be subject to concurrent or antecedent radiation or chemotherapy for treatment of a neoproliferative pathology. Pathogenic cells are of a tumor such as but not limited to bladder cancer breast cancer prostate cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer gastric cancer colon cancer ovarian cancer renal cancer hepatoma melanoma lymphoma sarcoma and combinations thereof. However the cells may also be immortalized tumor cells used in tumor cell culture.

Smac mimetics may also be used to treat autoimmune diseases. In addition to apoptosis defects found in tumors defects in the ability to eliminate self reactive cells of the immune system due to apoptosis resistance are considered to play a key role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune diseases are characterized in that the cells of the immune system produce antibodies against its own organs and molecules or directly attack tissues resulting in the destruction of the latter. A failure of those self reactive cells to undergo apoptosis leads to the manifestation of the disease. Defects in apoptosis regulation have been identified in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis.

In one embodiment the pathogenic further include abnormally proliferating cells such as those of any autoimmune disease or diseases which are resistant to apoptosis due to the overexpression of IAPs or members of the Bcl 2 family of proteins. Examples of such autoimmune diseases include but are not limited to collagen diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus Sharp s syndrome CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s syndrome esophageal dysmotility telangiectasia dermatomyositis vasculitis Morbus Wegener s and Sj gren s syndrome renal diseases such as Goodpasture s syndrome rapidly progressing glomerulonephritis and membrano proliferative glomerulonephritis type II endocrine diseases such as type I diabetes autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy APECED autoimmune parathyroidism pernicious anemia gonad insufficiency idiopathic Morbus Addison s hyperthyreosis Hashimoto s thyroiditis and primary myxedema skin diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris bullous pemphigoid herpes gestationis epidermolysis bullosa and erythema multiforme major liver diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune cholangitis autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis type 2 primary sclerosing cholangitis neuronal diseases such as multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis myasthenic Lambert Eaton syndrome acquired neuromyotony Guillain Barr syndrome M ller Fischer syndrome stiff man syndrome cerebellar degeneration ataxia opsoklonus sensoric neuropathy and achalasia blood diseases such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Morbus Werlhof infectious diseases with associated autoimmune reactions such as AIDS Malaria and Chagas disease.

Pharmaceutical compositions encompassed by the present invention include a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac mimetic in dosage form and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the Smac mimetic inhibits the activity of an IAP thus promoting apoptosis. Another embodiment of the present invention are compositions containing a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac mimetic in dosage form and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in combination with a biological or chemotherapeutic agent and or radiotherapy wherein the Smac mimetic inhibits the activity of an IAP thus promoting apoptosis and enhancing the effectiveness of the chemotherapeutic and or radiotherapy.

Methods of making pharmaceutical compositions containing Smac mimetics are also encompassed in the present invention and include but are not limited to combining a therapeutically effective amount of the Smac mimetic with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

In an embodiment of the invention a therapeutic composition for promoting apoptosis a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac peptidomimetic that binds to at least one IAP. In one embodiment the IAP can be XIAP. In another embodiment the IAP can be ML IAP. In another embodiment the IAP can be cIAP 1 or cIAP 2. In a further embodiment the IAP can be multiple IAP types.

Embodiments of the invention also include a method of treating a patient with a condition in need thereof wherein administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac peptidomimetic is delivered to the patient and the Smac peptidomimetic binds to at least one IAP. In one embodiment the IAP can be XIAP. In another embodiment the IAP can be ML IAP. In another embodiment the IAP can cIAP 1 or cIAP 2. In a further embodiment the IAP can be multiple IAP types. The method may further include the concurrent administration chemotherapeutic agent. The chemotherapeutic agent can be but is not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics taxanes hormonal agents monoclonal antibodies glucocorticoids mitotic inhibitors topoisomerase I inhibitors topoisomerase II inhibitors immunomodulating agents cellular growth factors cytokines and nonsteroidal anti inflammatory compounds.

Smac mimetics are preferably administered in effective amounts. An effective amount is that amount of a preparation that alone or together with further doses produces the desired response. This may involve only slowing the progression of the disease temporarily although preferably it involves halting the progression of the disease permanently or delaying the onset of or preventing the disease or condition from occurring. This can be monitored by routine methods. Generally doses of active compounds would be from about 0.01 mg kg per day to 1000 mg kg per day. It is expected that doses ranging from 50 500 mg kg will be suitable preferably intravenously intramuscularly or intradermally and in one or several administrations per day. The administration of the Smac peptidomimetic can occur simultaneous with subsequent to or prior to chemotherapy or radiation so long as the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation sensitizes the system to the Smac peptidomimetic.

In general routine experimentation in clinical trials will determine specific ranges for optimal therapeutic effect for each therapeutic agent and each administrative protocol and administration to specific patients will be adjusted to within effective and safe ranges depending on the patient condition and responsiveness to initial administrations. However the ultimate administration protocol will be regulated according to the judgment of the attending clinician considering such factors as age condition and size of the patient the Smac peptidomimetic potencies the duration of the treatment and the severity of the disease being treated. For example a dosage regimen of the Smac peptidomimetic can be oral administration of from 1 mg to 2000 mg day preferably 1 to 1000 mg day more preferably 50 to 600 mg day in two to four preferably two divided doses to reduce tumor growth. Intermittent therapy e.g. one week out of three weeks or three out of four weeks may also be used.

In the event that a response in a subject is insufficient at the initial doses applied higher doses or effectively higher doses by a different more localized delivery route may be employed to the extent that the patient tolerance permits. Multiple doses per day are contemplated to achieve appropriate systemic levels of compounds. Generally a maximum dose is used that is the highest safe dose according to sound medical judgment. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand however that a patient may insist upon a lower dose or tolerable dose for medical reasons psychological reasons or for virtually any other reason.

A variety of administration routes are available. The particular mode selected will depend of course upon the particular chemotherapeutic drug selected the severity of the condition being treated and the dosage required for therapeutic efficacy. The methods of the invention generally speaking may be practiced using any mode of administration that is medically acceptable meaning any mode that produces effective levels of the active compounds without causing clinically unacceptable adverse effects. Such modes of administration include but are not limited to oral rectal topical nasal intradermal inhalation intra peritoneal intravesical or parenteral routes. The term parenteral includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular or infusion. Intravenous or intramuscular routes are particularly suitable for purposes of the present invention.

In one aspect of the invention a Smac peptidomimetic as described herein with or without additional biological or chemotherapeutic agents or radiotherapy does not adversely affect normal tissues while sensitizing tumor cells to the additional chemotherapeutic radiation protocols. While not wishing to be bound by theory it would appear that because of this tumor specific induced apoptosis marked and adverse side effects such as inappropriate vasodilation or shock are minimized. Preferably the composition or method is designed to allow sensitization of the cell or tumor to the chemotherapeutic or radiation therapy by administering at least a portion of the Smac peptidomimetic prior to chemotherapeutic or radiation therapy. The radiation therapy and or inclusion of chemotherapeutic agents may be included as part of the therapeutic regimen to further potentiate the tumor cell killing by the Smac peptidomimetic.

In alternative embodiments of the current invention Smac mimetics are administered in combination with a second form of therapy including but not limited to second therapy selected from radiation therapy immunotherapy photodynamic therapy chemotherapy and combinations thereof.

Anti cancer chemotherapeutic agents administered in combination with Smac mimetics may be any therapeutic agent that specifically targets tumorigenic tissue or cells and include but is not limited to alkylating agents plant alkaloids antitumor antibiotics antimetabolites and topoisomerase inhibitors including altretamine busulfan carboplatin carmustine chlorambucil cisplatin cyclophosphomide dacarbazine hexamethylmelamine ifosfamide lomustine melphalan mechlorethamine oxaliplatin procarbazine streptozocin temozolomide thiotepa uramustine docetaxel etoposide irinotecan paclitaxel tenisopide vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine bleomycin dactinomycin daunorubicin epirubicin hydroxyurea idarubicin mitomycin mitoxantrone plicamycin azathioprine capecitabine cladribine cytarabine fludarabine fluorouracil floxuridine gemcitabine mercaptopurine methotrexate nelarabine pemetrexed pentostatin thioguanine camptothecan topotecan BNP 1350 SN 38 9 amino camptothecan lurtotecan gimatecan diflomotecan doxorubicin epirubicin idarubicin nemorubicin mitoxantrone loxoxantrone etoposide and combinations thereof.

Smac mimetics as described herein may also be administered concurrently with immunotherapeutic agents. Immunotherapy includes the administration of an immunologically active agent selected from bacillus Calmette Guerin BCG interferon and other agents that specifically activate the immune system of affected patients and combinations thereof.

In one embodiment of the invention an additional biological chemotherapeutic or anti neoplastic agent infra and or radiation may be added prior to along with or following the administration of a Smac mimetic. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means one or more compatible solid or liquid fillers diluents or encapsulating substances which are suitable for administration into a human. The term carrier denotes an organic or inorganic ingredient natural or synthetic with which the active ingredient is combined to facilitate the application. The components of the pharmaceutical compositions are capable of being co mingled with the molecules of the present invention and with each other in a manner such that there is no interaction which would substantially impair the desired pharmaceutical efficacy.

The delivery systems of the invention are designed to include time released delayed release or sustained release delivery systems such that the delivering of the Smac peptidomimetic occurs prior to and with sufficient time to cause sensitization of the site to be treated. A Smac peptidomimetic may be used in conjunction with radiation and or additional anti cancer chemical agents infra . Such systems can avoid repeated administrations of the Smac peptidomimetc compound increasing convenience to the subject and the physician and may be particularly suitable for certain compositions of the present invention.

Many types of release delivery systems are available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art and may be used in the context of the present invention including but not limited to polymer base systems such as poly lactide glycolide copolyoxalates polycaprolactones polyesteramides polyorthoesters polyhydroxybutyric acid and polyanhydrides. Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 109. Delivery systems also include non polymer systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol cholesterol esters and fatty acids or neutral fats such as mono di and tri glycerides hydrogel release systems sylastic systems peptide based systems wax coatings compressed tablets using conventional binders and excipients partially fused implants and the like. Specific examples include but are not limited to a erosional systems in which the active compound is contained in a form within a matrix such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 452 775 4 667 014 4 748 034 and 5 239 660 and b diffusional systems in which an active component permeates at a controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 832 253 and 3 854 480. In addition pump based hardware delivery systems can be used some of which are adapted for implantation.

Use of a long term sustained release implant may be desirable. Long term release are used herein means that the implant is constructed and arranged to deliver therapeutic levels of the active ingredient for at least 30 days and preferably 60 days. Long term sustained release implants are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and include some of the release systems described above.

The pharmaceutical compositions may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing the active agent into association with a carrier that constitutes one or more accessory ingredients or excipients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing the active compound into association with a liquid carrier a finely divided solid carrier or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

In one embodiment of the invention the dimeric peptidomimetics described above are combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Compositions suitable for parenteral administration conveniently include a sterile aqueous preparation of a chemopotentiating agent e.g. Smac peptidomimetic which is preferably isotonic with the blood of the recipient. This aqueous preparation may be formulated according to known methods using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation also may be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butane diol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may be used in the preparation of injectables. Carrier formulation suitable for oral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular etc. administrations can be found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference thereto.

Chemotherapeutic agents suitable for use in combination with the present invention include but are not limited to the chemotherapeutic agents described in Modern Pharmacology with Clinical Applications Sixth Edition Craig Stitzel Chpt. 56 pg 639 656 2004 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. This reference describes chemotherapeutic drugs to include alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics plant derived products such as taxanes enzymes hormonal agents such as glucocorticoids miscellaneous agents such as cisplatin monoclonal antibodies immunomodulating agents such as interferons and cellular growth factors. Other suitable classifications for chemotherapeutic agents include mitotic inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti estrogenic analogs. Other suitable chemotherapeutic agents include toposiomerase I and II inhibitors kinase inhibitors and any agent capable of activating the extrinsic or intrinsic apoptotic pathway or release of Smac from the mitochondria.

Specific examples of suitable biological and chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to cisplatin carmustine BCNU 5 fluorouracil 5 FU cytarabine Ara C gemcitabine methotrexate daunorubicin doxorubicin dexamethasone topotecan etoposide paclitaxel vincristine tamoxifen TNF alpha TRAIL interferon in both its alpha and beta forms thalidomide and melphalan. Other specific examples of suitable chemotherapeutic agents include nitrogen mustards such as cyclophosphamide alkyl sulfonates nitrosoureas ethylenimines triazenes folate antagonists purine analogs pyrimidine analogs anthracyclines bleomycins mitomycins dactinomycins plicamycin vinca alkaloids epipodophyllotoxins taxanes glucocorticoids L asparaginase estrogens androgens progestins luteinizing hormones octreotide actetate hydroxyurea procarbazine mitotane hexamethylmelamine carboplatin mitoxantrone monoclonal antibodies levamisole interferons interleukins filgrastim and sargramostim. Chemotherapeutic compositions also include other members i.e. other than TRAIL of the TNF superfamily of compounds or agents such as BCG which induce synthesis of chemokines following intravesical treatment. NSAIDS may also be used in combination with the Smac mimetics of the present invention and may include selective and non selective COX 2 inhibitors celecoxib and rofecoib.

Additionally in several method embodiments of the present invention the Smac peptidomimetic therapy may be used in connection with chemoradiation or other cancer treatment protocols used to inhibit tumor cell growth. For example but not limited to radiation therapy or radiotherapy is the medical use of ionizing radiation as part of cancer treatment to control malignant cells is suitable for use in embodiments of the present invention. Although radiotherapy is often used as part of curative therapy it is occasionally used as a palliative treatment where cure is not possible and the aim is for symptomatic relief. Radiotherapy is commonly used for the treatment of tumors. It may be used as the primary therapy. It is also common to combine radiotherapy with surgery and or chemotherapy. The most common tumors treated with radiotherapy are breast cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer head neck cancers gynecological tumors bladder cancer and lymphoma. Radiation therapy is commonly applied just to the localized area involved with the tumor. Often the radiation fields also include the draining lymph nodes. It is possible but uncommon to give radiotherapy to the whole body or entire skin surface. Radiation therapy is usually given daily for up to 35 38 fractions a daily dose is a fraction . These small frequent doses allow healthy cells time to grow back repairing damage inflicted by the radiation. Three main divisions of radiotherapy are external beam radiotherapy or teletherapy brachytherapy or sealed source radiotherapy and unsealed source radiotherapy which are all suitable examples of treatment protocol in the present invention. The differences relate to the position of the radiation source external is outside the body while sealed and unsealed source radiotherapy has radioactive material delivered internally. Brachytherapy sealed sources are usually extracted later while unsealed sources are injected into the body. Administration of the Smac peptidomimetic may occur prior to concurrently with the treatment protocol.

The relative binding affinity of a Smac tetrapeptide AVPI and a potent Smac mimetic Entry 17 to XIAP BIR 3 is shown in This figure reveals the marked increase in binding affinity a 30 000 fold increase of the Smac mimetic Entry 17 relative to the Smac tetrapeptide.

The half life of 3 Smac mimetics Entry 1 Entry 122 and Entry 123 was examined in a rat. The IV dose for each Smac mimetic was 1 mg kg. shows that the terminal elimination half life is up to approximately 6 hours for the Smac mimetics with Entry 1 having the longest half life.

Biological and chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and radiation induce apoptosis by activating the extrinsic or intrinsic apoptotic pathways and since Smac mimetics relieve inhibitors of apoptotic proteins IAP s and thus remove the block in apoptosis the combination of chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and radiation with Smac mimetics should work synergistically to facilitate apoptosis. To show the synergistic effects of Smac mimetics with common chemotherapeutic agents a panel of diverse tumor cell lines was selected and representative compounds from various mechanistic classes of chemotherapeutics as well as gamma radiation were tested.

A 72 hour MTT assay as previously described by Hansen M. B. Nielsen S. E. and Berg K. 1989 119 203 210 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety was used to differentiate between a specific versus non specific effect on cell killing by Smac mimetics. Briefly SK OV 3 cells were seeded in 96 well plates in McCoy s medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum albumin 20 000 per well and incubated overnight at 37 C. The next day test compounds were added at various concentrations 0.003 10 M and the plates were incubated at 37 C. for an additional 72 hrs. 50 microliters of 5 mg mL MTT reagent was then added to each well and the plates were incubated at 37 C. for 3 hours. At the end of the incubation period 50 microliters of DMSO was added to each well to dissolve cells and the optical density OD of the wells was measured using a microplate reader Victor1420 Wallac Finland at 535 nm. Cell survival CS was calculated by the following equation CS OD treated well mean OD control wells 100 

Smac mimetic Entry 116 was tested using an ovarian cancer cell line SK OV 3 and MRC 5 cells were used as a normal cell control. shows that Entry 116 is 100 000 more effective at killing tumor cells then negative controls while normal non tumorigenic cells remain unaffected.

The EC defined as the drug concentration that results in 50 CS was derived by calculating the point where the dose response curve crosses the 50 CS point using GraphPad Prism. These results suggest that Smac mimetics that bind to XIAP can be used in the treatment of cancer either as monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapeutics.

To show the ability of Smac mimetics to induce apoptosis Annexin V fluorescein isothiocyanate staining was performed. Briefly as per manufacturer s protocol Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. cells were exposed to various concentrations of Smac mimetics for 18 24 hrs. and then removed from the assay plate by trypsinization. Cells were then pelleted and resuspended in assay buffer supplied by manufacturer . Annexin V and propidium iodide were added to the cell preparations and incubated for 1 hour in the dark at room temperature. Following the incubation additional buffer 200 l was then added to each tube and the samples were analyzed immediately by flow cytometry. In the presence of Smac mimetics apoptosis was strongly promoted as assessed by annexin PI staining and analyzed by flow cytometry. The amplification in the number of apoptotic cells Annexin V positive propidium iodide negative lower right quadrant by IAP antagonists as compared to control was dose dependent and due to the induction of apoptosis and not via increasing the proportion of necrotic cells.

The chemopotentiating effect Smac mimetic using melanoma cells that have been shown to be resistant to the apoptotic effects of TRAIL a chemotherapeutic drug Chawla Sarkar. Clin. Cancer Res. 2001 . Assays for cell proliferation MTT assay revealed that when MDA MB 231 cells a breast cancer cell line were treated with a Smac peptidomimetic of the invention Entry 1 alone the cells were resistant to the antiproliferative effects of the Smac mimetic of the invention. In contrast when Entry 1 was used in combination with TRAIL there was a 1000 fold increase in the antiproliferative effect resulting in a 100 fold increase in the cell killing as detected by the corresponding loss in colony formation. A control peptidomimetic Entry 62 failed to synergize with TRAIL and results data not shown indicate no antiproliferative activity of Entry 62 alone or in combination with TRAIL. TRAIL alone induces little if any apoptosis of MDA MB 231 cells after 4 hours. Treatment with Entry 121 alone also failed to induce significant apoptosis approximately 10 of cell total . In contrast a combination of TRAIL with Entry 121 resulted in a 4 fold increase in apoptotic activity after 4 hours

The ability of cells to form viable colonies was analyzed by adding various concentrations of the compound in the presence and absence of 0.4 ng ml of TRAIL. Briefly cells are seeded at 100 cells per well in a 12 well format in 2 ml of growth medium. The medium is removed after twenty four hours and replaced with Smac mimetics at various concentrations in growth medium with 1 DMSO. After 72 hours on test the concentrations are removed and replaced with 2 ml. of growth medium. The plates are returned to the incubator for 7 10 days at which time the colonies have multiplied to at least 10 cells per colony which can be counted by eye. The plates are stained with a 0.01 crystal violet solution wt vol. in HO for thirty minutes. The plates are washed with tap water to remove any residual crystal violet dried and the colonies are counted. Inhibition data were analyzed using the sigmoidal dose response variable slope equation in GraphPad Prism GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. . The 50 inhibitory concentration EC was the drug concentration that decreased the enzyme activity by 50 relative to control samples without drug.

Synergy was observed with topotecan and camptothecin two examples of topoisomerases inhibitors in a cytotoxicity study in T98G cells. The highest amount of synergy is 50 60 more cell death than would be expected by adding together the cytotoxicity of each compound alone. Results show that both topotecan and camptothecin can act synergistically with a Smac mimetic of the invention such as Entry 1 for an enhancement of apoptosis. The total synergistic volume was 457 with the greatest synergism being about 30 40 more cell death than would be expected by adding together the individual Smac and topotecan cytotoxicities between Entry 1 and a topoismerase inhibitor such as topotecan.

To further assess potential drug drug interactions a matrix of the permutations of two fold serial dilutions of each drug and a Snac mimetic were tested as well as the activity of each compound alone using a program called MacSynergy II Prichard M. N. K. R. Aseltine and C. Shipman Jr. 1993. MacSynergy II. User s manual. Univ. of Michigan Ann Arbor . The synergy with paclitaxel and the Smac peptidomimetic Entry 122 in OVCAR3 cells was tested. The highest amount of synergy detected is 10 20 which indicates greater cell death than would be expected by adding together the cytotoxicity of either compound alone.

Taxanes are compounds that inhibit mitosis by hindering depolymerization of the microtubule based spindle. These data were generated by testing various concentrations of a common taxane paclitaxel and a Smac mimetic. Paclitaxel the dosage ranged from about 0.0 to about 500.0 nM. For Entry 122 the dosage range was about 125.0 to about 8000.0 nM. The total synergistic volume was about 170.

The mechanism of action of platinum containing compounds is believed to be by binding to DNA and interfering with its repair mechanism eventually leading to cell death. The synergy with cisplatin and the Smac peptidomimetics in OVCAR 3 cells was tested The highest amount of synergy is 40 50 more cell death than would be expected by adding together the cytotoxicity of each compound alone. These data were generated by testing various concentrations of cisplatin and Smac mimetics drugs. For cisplatin the dosage range was about 0.0 to about 166 500.0 nM. For Entry 122 the dosage range was about 500.0 to about 32 000.0 nM. The total synergistic volume was about 434. Similar tests were performed with the combination of carboplatin and Smac mimetics. Synergy between a Smac peptidomimetic Entry 122 and carboplatin.

This potent synergy makes possible the use of the Smac peptidomimetics which are IAP antagonists to improve the efficacy of the marketed anti tumor compounds such as but not limited to paclitaxel cisplatin and carboplatin . This effected will allow the lowering the required dose of the poorly tolerated anti tumor compounds and or by improving the responses rate at the marketed doses.

The present invention is not limited to the embodiments described and exemplified above but is capable of variation and modification within the scope of the appended claims.

