---

title: Gun-launched non-lethal projectile with solid propellant rocket motor
abstract: A gun-launched, non-lethal, anti-personnel projectile includes a variable thrust, solid propellant rocket motor. The rocket motor has a variable thrust profile that maintains a substantially constant kinetic energy of the projectile below a lethal threshold from a range of about 5 meters to about 400 meters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021957&OS=09021957&RS=09021957
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09021957
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to non lethal anti personnel projectiles and in particular to longer range non lethal anti personnel projectiles.

Non lethal projectiles are designed to impact human beings without killing or seriously injuring them. So non lethal projectiles must have an impact momentum that is below a lethal threshold for humans.

In existing gun launched non lethal projectiles the impact momentum at close range is limited by limiting the launch velocity of the projectile and or the mass of the projectile. Limiting either the velocity or the mass affects the ability of the projectile to perform at longer ranges. For example a low mass can result in a low ballistic coefficient and a consequent great loss of velocity. A low launch velocity results in even lower downrange velocities longer flight times and more gravity drop. In either case the non lethal projectile will not perform as needed at longer ranges for example up to 400 meters.

A need exists for a gun launched non lethal anti personnel projectile with non lethal performance at both close and long ranges.

One aspect of the invention is a gun launched non lethal anti personnel cartridge. The cartridge includes a casing with a base and propellant disposed in the casing. A non lethal projectile is disposed in the casing forward of the propellant and has a central longitudinal axis. The projectile includes a soft nose and a variable thrust solid propellant rocket motor disposed aft of the nose. The rocket motor has a variable thrust profile that maintains a substantially constant kinetic energy of the projectile below a lethal threshold from a range of about 5 meters to about 400 meters.

In one embodiment the rocket motor includes a cylindrical combustion chamber centered on the central longitudinal axis and concentrically surrounded by a first propellant in the form of a tube. The first propellant is concentrically surrounded by a second propellant in the form of a tube. The burn rate and thrust of the first propellant are less than the burn rate and thrust of the second propellant.

In another embodiment the rocket motor includes a cylindrical combustion chamber centered on the central longitudinal axis and surrounded by a first propellant in the form of a tube and a second propellant in the form of a tube. The first and second propellants are disposed axially adjacent each other and centered on the central longitudinal axis. The burn rate and thrust of the first propellant are less than the burn rate and thrust of the second propellant.

An additional embodiment of the rocket motor includes a plurality of motor segments that are concentric with the central longitudinal axis and arranged in series along the central longitudinal axis. Each motor segment is symmetric around the central longitudinal axis. Each motor segment includes solid rocket motor propellant disposed symmetrically around a respective motor segment combustion chamber. Each motor segment has a different burn rate and thrust.

The motor segment combustion chambers may have different cross sectional areas. The aft most motor segment may have a burn rate and a thrust that is less than burn rates and thrusts of all the other motor segments. The burn rates and thrusts of each motor segment may increase from the aft most segment to a forward most segment.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

There are many measurements of the lethality of a projectile and no universal agreement exists. For non lethal projectiles designed to neutralize humans by impact force the lethality of the projectile depends on many variables including but not limited to the size and weight of the projectile the geometry of the projectile the density of the projectile and the velocity of the projectile. In addition the lethality of a projectile may depend on factors that vary between humans such as body size weight individual fitness etc. For the purpose of the present invention the kinetic energy of the projectile is the measurement of lethality and the variable of interest. The kinetic energy is one half of the product of the projectile mass and the square of the projectile s velocity.

In prior art projectiles great care was used to maintain a constant thrust throughout the flight time of the projectile. Typically solid rocket motor propellant with a star shaped cross section was used so that as the motor propellant burned away the exposed surface area of the propellant remained close to constant. The constant exposed surface area maintained the thrust close to constant. There were no considerations given to the change of the projectile s mass as a function of flight time or to the maintenance of constant projectile kinetic energy.

The novel gun launched projectile meets the need for a non lethal projectile that is effective against personnel at a variety of ranges. The range of effective use may be for example from about 5 meters to about 400 meters. The projectile is launched at a velocity that is high enough to provide stable flight and render the projectile effective at close range. The projectile includes a rocket motor that ignites during or soon after launch of the projectile. The rocket motor may burn in phases. The goal is to maintain the projectile s kinetic energy at or below the non lethal threshold.

The burn rates and thrust imparted to the non lethal projectile may be varied according to need. For effective non lethal performance at close in ranges the initial burn phase may have a low thrust and burn rate. To counteract the projectile s natural tendency to slow down at longer ranges higher thrust and burn rates may be needed to increase velocity. As flight time increases and projectile mass decreases additional velocity is needed to maintain constant kinetic energy.

As the rocket motor propellant burns away the propellant cross section may vary. The differing thrusts may be enabled by the use of differing cross sections of propellant. As an alternative to or in addition to varying the cross section of the propellant propellants having differing chemical compositions and geometries may be used to produce thrust that varies with projectile flight time. Varying the thrust may increase the projectile s performance at longer ranges without exceeding the non lethal threshold at close range. As the rocket propellant burns away the mass of the projectile decreases. The decreasing mass tends to decrease the probability of exceeding the non lethal threshold. The thrust v. time profile flight drag projectile mass and projectile impact area may be balanced to provide non lethal effects at both short and long range.

As rocket propellant is burned the mass of the projectile decreases. The thrust must be varied so that the impact kinetic energy remains as near as possible to a predetermined non lethal threshold. The rocket motor propellant has a negative mass flow rate as the motor burns. The total mass loss due to motor burn is the mass flow rate integrated over time. The thrust level may be tailored in accordance with the mass flow rate.

Variable thrust rocket motor has a thrust profile that varies with flight time of projectile . As the rocket motor propellant burns the mass of projectile decreases and the velocity increases. The thrust profile of motor maintains a substantially constant kinetic energy of projectile from a range of for example about 5 meters to about 400 meters. The substantially constant kinetic energy is maintained below a lethal threshold for humans. In one embodiment of projectile the caliber or projectile is 40 mm and the lethal threshold is about 58 foot pounds.

Various configurations of rocket motor may be used to vary thrust and maintain constant kinetic energy. Variable thrust may be attained for example by dividing motor into stages with different propellants and or different geometries of propellants. For example is an end view of a variable thrust solid propellant rocket motor having two concentric cylindrical tubes of propellant and centered around a cylindrical void or combustion chamber . Chamber and propellants are concentric with axis A. Propellant which is burned first has a lower burn rate and a lower thrust level than propellant . Propellants may be known propellants. More than two concentric tubes of propellant may be used.

In one embodiment each motor segment combustion chamber has a different cross sectional area. As seen in chamber is a cylindrical void chamber is a cylindrical void with a larger diameter than chamber and chamber is a star shaped void. Of course other shapes may be used for chambers and .

Solid rocket motor propellants may have the same chemical composition or each may have a different chemical composition. In one embodiment the burn rate and thrust of each motor segment increases from the aft of the motor to the front of motor . For example the aft most motor segment has the lowest burn rate and thrust and the middle motor segment has a burn rate and thrust that is greater than that of segment but less than that of the forward segment .

The interfaces between segments may be other than abutting planar surfaces. For example shows a variable thrust solid propellant rocket motor having a plurality of propellant segments and a combustion chamber . Segments and chamber are symmetric about axis A. Segment has a concave forward surface that mates with a complementary convex aft surface of segment . Segment has a convex forward surface that mates with a complementary concave aft surface of segment . Of course segment interfaces with other geometric shapes may be used.

Computerized modeling and simulation was performed to determine a target candidate for a 40 mm non lethal projectile. The most promising candidate was a 75 gram projectile with a variable thrust that increases with flight time. shows the rocket motor thrust Newtons as a function of flight time seconds . shows the decreasing mass grams of the projectile as a function of flight distance or range meters . shows the impact velocity meters second as a function of flight distance meters . shows the time of flight seconds as a function of flight distance meters . shows the kinetic energy Joules and foot pounds as a function of flight distance meters . The projectile s kinetic energy as shown in is somewhat greater than the target level. If desired the kinetic energy can be adjusted lower by for example slightly reducing the muzzle velocity of the projectile and or slightly reducing the initial mass of the projectile and or varying the rocket motor thrust. The muzzle velocity may be reduced by changing the amount or composition of propellant in cartridge case .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

