---

title: Compact lens system and array
abstract: A compact lens system for imaging a sample comprising a substrate having a well formed therein. Index matching material is disposed in the well and a lens member is further disposed in the well in optical contact with the index matching material disposed in the well. A spacer member extends from at least one of the substrate and the lower transparent member to define a spacing from a focal point of the lens member, wherein the lens member and index matching material cooperate to image a sample disposed below the lower transparent member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304280&OS=09304280&RS=09304280
owner: The Regents Of The University Of Michigan
number: 09304280
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 781 944 filed on Mar. 14 2013. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under OD006458 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to imaging and more particularly relates to submicron resolution imaging of bacteria cells microorganisms whole tissue and the like in bright field dark field and fluorescent image modes in multiple locations simultaneously using a compact lens system and array.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art. This section also provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

Optical microscopy is the gold standard for the visualization of biological entities as well for the identification diagnosis and monitoring of many diseases such as sickle cell disease malaria and tuberculosis. High end optical systems that achieve submicron resolution imaging rely on multi element objective lenses that are expensive and bulky.

Biological imaging systems consist in a broad sense of a microscope for magnifying the section of the sample a light source to illuminate the sample and a camera which can be attached to the eyepiece of the microscope to take digital or analog images of the section of the sample which is being observed. For most applications resolutions on the order of one micron or better are needed for observing fine details of the sample as well as for carrying out tasks such as counting of cells within a given sample volume. This is normally achieved by employing expensive high magnification immersion objectives for the microscopes which can cost several thousand dollars each.

The large physical size of many microscopes is an impediment to making measurements in controlled environments such as incubators or with living laboratory animals such as mice rats or guinea pigs.

Stereoscopes normally have a single optical train of lenses prisms and mirrors for collecting the light from the sample and forming an image at the image plane or the eye of the observer. Single train nature of the microscope combined with a high resolution high numerical aperture requirement results in immersion objectives which have very narrow fields of view that limit the observation area to about a hundred microns in diameter. This limitation prevents simultaneous observation of a large area of the sample with high resolution. To observe other parts of the sample the sample has to be physically moved and brought into focus again.

Ball lenses have been used in optics for laser collimating fiber coupling and endoscopic imaging. Lately ball lenses have been used to constructing miniaturized microscopes. However the resolution and image quality of the previous attempt at making simple imaging systems with ball lenses was not very successful maximum resolution achieved was greater than one micron and the image quality was poor due to its construction.

Miniature microscope lenses were made by essentially miniaturizing the microscope objectives U.S. Pat. No. 7 023 622 . Arrays of these miniaturized objective lenses were used to make scanning array microscope systems. However the cost of these systems was prohibitively high.

The present teachings address the shortcomings of the prior art providing a novel and inexpensive imaging system which costs at least an order of magnitude less and is smaller by a similar amount while providing as high a resolution as the best immersion microscope objectives.

According to the principles of the present teachings a compact lens system is provided for imaging a sample in some embodiments. The compact lens system comprises a substrate having a well formed therein the well having an open first end and an open second end wherein the second end opposing the first end and being in communication therewith. The system further comprises a lower transparent member extending along a lower surface of the substrate thereby enclosing the open second end of the well and an index matching material disposed in the well. A lens member is disposed in the well and in optical contact with the index matching material disposed in the well. A refractive index of said lens member being generally equal to a refractive index of said index matching material. A spacer member extends from at least one of the substrate and the lower transparent member to define a spacing from a focal point of the lens member wherein the lens member and the index matching material cooperate to image a sample disposed below the lower transparent member.

In some embodiments a compact lens array system for imaging a sample is provided. The compact lens array system comprises a substrate having a plurality of microwells disposed in an array of rows and columns each of the microwells having an open first end and an open second end. The second end opposing the first end and being in communication therewith. A lower transparent member extends along a lower surface of the substrate enclosing the open second end of each of the microwells. A reservoir is provided and a microfluidic channel fluidly couples at least one row of the array of microwells to the reservoir. An index matching material is disposed in the reservoir and in fluid communication with the at least one row of the array of microwells via the microfluidic channel. A plurality of lens members are disposed in each of the microwells in optical contact with the index matching material disposed in the microwells. A refractive index of each of the plurality of the lens members is generally equal to a refractive index of the index matching material. A spacer member extends from at least one of the substrate and the lower transparent member to define a spacing from a focal point of the plurality of lens members wherein the lens members and the index matching material cooperate to image a sample disposed below the lower transparent member.

In some embodiments of the present teachings a novel microfluidic based device is provided for obtaining a low cost high NA array of miniaturized ball lenses for imaging biological samples. In some embodiments lenses are made of high index of refraction material. The lenses can be placed on top of an array of liquid filled lens wells that are microfabricated as a holder platform. The precise platform configuration enables easy assembly and effective holding retention. Moreover the Microfluidic based Oil Immersion OIL lens array or chip of the present teachings provides optical performance resolution NA equivalent to the performance of a conventional microscope objective while also enabling multiple wide field of view imaging as its size can be easily scaled up. A low cost compact high resolution high numerical aperture optical imaging system using the compact lens system for counting cells is provided.

The present teachings in some embodiments employ single ball lens optics to overcome the cost and complexity issues associated with compound lens microscope objectives. Higher numerical aperture and submicron resolution is achieved by using semiconductor manufacturing techniques to make a microfluidic lens holder which simultaneously positions the lens at a precise distance from the sample and immerses half of the ball lens for example in an index matching fluid effectively creating an immersion microscope objective with resolution comparable to the best compound microscope objectives. By having an array of miniball lenses it is possible to simultaneously image many different samples with equal resolution simultaneously or image different parts of a large sample with high resolution. A sample cartridge is inserted between the illumination source and the lens array. In some embodiments an LED light source wavelength filters and imaging sensor can be used to enable both bright field and fluorescence imaging.

In some embodiments the imaging sensor located in the image plane of the mini ball lenses records digitally all of the images formed by the mini lenses simultaneously with approaching the diffraction limit. The advantages of such a system is obvious to those skilled in the art By way of non limiting example it is possible to follow different events taking place at the cellular or subcellular level to count red and white blood cells or their subpopulations with good statistics observe response of cells to different drugs record time dependent changes occurring in cells exposed to different environments observe growth of different embryos white and red blood cell counting and many similar phenomena too many to list here. Furthermore the small size and weight of the compact lens system around one cubic inch in some embodiments allows its use in remotely monitoring samples where large bulky microscopes cannot be used.

The compact lens system of the present teachings can be part of a lab on chip system or it can be used as an add on module in low cost stereoscopes to enable high resolution imaging of small objects in the lab in the doctor s office or in the field. The compact lens system can be integrated to a CMOS complementary metal oxide semiconductor commercial sensor for a miniature wireless microscope system to monitor biological development in an incubator a compact imaging system for cell counters or can be used as an optical part of Digital Pathology Scanner.

The present teachings provide a number of advantages including providing an array of mini objectives which give multiple field of views whereas expensive bench top microscopes can only see one field of view only one objective at a time. Moreover each objective mini lens of the present teachings provides high numerical aperture and high resolution 0.5 microns and an inexpensive and small foot print lens holder. This lens array chip is 1 1 0.2 cmvolume which make it easy to integrate into a compact light weight imaging system. Furthermore the present teachings can be used in a wide range of optical imaging applications such as Cell Counters Point of Care Diagnostic systems Miniature microscope systems that can be used in incubators and high resolution Digital Pathology Scanners.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. In some example embodiments well known processes well known device structures and well known technologies are not described in detail.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Terms such as first second and other numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

As mentioned herein optical microscopy is the gold standard for the visualization of biological entities as well for the identification diagnosis and monitoring of many diseases such as sickle cell disease malaria and tuberculosis. High end optical systems that achieve submicron resolution imaging rely on multi element objective lenses that are expensive and bulky. In recent years there has been an increased interest in integrating optical components on chip. The development of micro optical modules typically involves the challenging task of lens miniaturization if superb imaging quality needs to be maintained.

Optical imaging systems with submicron resolution typically require the use of expensive high numerical aperture NA microscope objective lenses. However according to the principles of the present teachings a compact lens system is provided that can in some embodiments perform submicron and wide field of view imaging. In some embodiments compact lens system can comprise high index of refraction oil immersion ball mini lenses having NA as high as 1.2 and therefore submicron optical resolution. The compact lens system can be part of a lab on chip system and or used as an add on module in low cost stereoscopes to enable high resolution imaging of biological samples in the lab in the doctor s office or in the field.

The present teachings further demonstrate a novel microfluidic based approach for obtaining a low cost high NA array of miniaturized doublet lenses for imaging biological samples. As will be discussed in greater detail the lenses of the present teachings can be made of high index of refraction sapphire lenses. These lenses can be placed on top of an array of oil filled lens wells that are microfabricated on a silicon chip. The resultant Microfluidic based Oil Immersion Lens OIL array provides optical performance resolution NA equivalent to the performance of a conventional microscope objective and further enables wide field of view imaging as its size can be easily scaled up. As will be appreciated by the present disclosure variations of materials and configurations are envisioned in connection with the present teachings.

In some embodiments as illustrated in the compact lens system can comprise a plurality of lenses disposed in a substrate array . The substrate array can comprise base substrate such as a silicon chip having a lower transparent member such as a coverslip thin film membrane e.g. silicon nitride membrane and one or more spacer members disposed below the lower transparent member . Spacer members are sized and configured to rest upon a sample holder containing a sample to be imaged . In some embodiments space members can be integrally formed with lower transparent member and or base substrate .

It should be noted that although the present teachings are described in detail including a plurality of lenses disposed in an array format alternative embodiments are anticipated disclosed and illustrated having only a single lens element together with the associated structure. Therefore the present invention should not be regarded as being limited to any embodiment requiring a plurality of lens unless otherwise specifically claimed. In the interest of brevity the present teachings will be described in detail in conjunction with an array format however it is believed to be well within the skill of those reading the present disclosure that the device can be scaled down to a single lens arrangement.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of lenses is disposed in a lens well or microwell in the case of micro sized lenses formed in base substrate . Each lens well includes a top opening and a bottom opening and being open therebetween. In some embodiments top opening defines a width or diameter that is greater than a width or diameter of bottom opening . Lens well retains an index matching material such as a liquid monomer polymer or other material therein that optically contacts at least a portion of a respective one of the plurality of lenses disposed in lens well .

In some embodiments the plurality of lenses can comprise a plurality of sapphire ball mini lenses. In some embodiments each of the plurality of sapphire ball mini lenses can measure about 1 mm in diameter and have a refractive index of 1.77. In some embodiments the plurality of lenses can be off the shelf non microfabricated lenses.

However in some embodiments each of the plurality of lenses can be made of a transparent high refractive index material that can transmit light has one or both side convex shape design to focus converge light to a point. In some embodiments the diameter of each of the plurality of lenses can be between 10 microns to 5 mm. It should be appreciated that the plurality of lenses can define any one of a number of physical lens shapes such as sphere half sphere biconvex plano convex doublet aspheric achromatic shape or the like. Lens can include one or multiple elements. Each of the plurality of lenses can be made of any high refractive index n 1 material such as but not limited to glass Fused Silica sapphire polymer Germanium Ge Silicon Si or Zinc Selenide ZnSe . It should be understood that lenses can be used individually or in a group array . It should also be understood that lens can define a refractive index in the range of 1.5 to 1.8.

In some embodiments substrate array can comprise the plurality of lens wells arranged in an array. More particularly in some embodiments the substrate array can comprises a 5 5 array of wells that are each fluidly coupled or connected through an open air microfluidic network that distributes the index matching material equally to each lens well in the entire array. The microfluidic network can include a fluidic reservoir on at least one end and a plurality of microfluidic channels in fluid communication between fluidic reservoir and at least one of the plurality of lens wells . In some embodiments a plurality of lens wells can be fluidly coupled with fluidic reservoir in series thereby having a first fluidic reservoir and a second fluidic reservoir on opposing sides of the plurality of lens wells and having each row of the plurality of lens wells fluidly coupled via microfluidic channels See .

In some embodiments a cover system can be used to cover top opening and or microfluidic network . In some embodiments cover system can include a thin film e.g. parylene to enclose the system and provide a barrier to outside contaminants and or provide a means to seal the lens and assembly.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of lenses can define a diameter slightly larger than the diameter of the respective lens well such that each of the plurality of lenses sits generally above the lens well . In some embodiments when lens wells are filled with index matching material lens can be generally half immersed in index matching material and half exposed to air. As a result the index matching material lens combination acts as a doublet lens resembling the hemispherical front lens of a high numerical aperture oil immersion microscope objective.

In some embodiments index matching material defines a refractive index close or generally equal to the refractive index of the material of lens . In some embodiments index matching material can have a refractive index in the range of 1.3 to 1.8. In some embodiments index matching material can be an incompressible fluid that flows freely in microfluidic channels . In some embodiments index matching index matching material can be a monomer e.g. liquid monomer which can be polymerized in situ. In some embodiments index matching material can comprise a UV curable liquid photopolymer that is distributed via the microfluidic channels of the present teachings and then exposed to UV light. The UV light can initiate a curing process causing the liquid photopolymer to become solid. In some embodiments the UV curable liquid photopolymer is Norland Optical Adhesive 61 available from Norland Products which has a refractive index of 1.56 when cured. In some embodiments index matching material can comprise immersion oil. In some embodiment this oil can have the same refractive index as the substrate material used on substrate array such as lower transparent member . The refractive index of oil is approximately 1.5 to 1.6. However alternative liquids can be used including water n 1.33 and or UV curable polymer n 1.5 . The results show that using oil water monomer or UV polymer provide higher image resolution compared to an air medium.

In some embodiments substrate array can further be configured and sized such that the combination of the plurality of lenses index matching material and lower transparent member produce a focal length that is fixed to a corresponding physical distance of the plurality of lenses lower transparent member and spacer member thereby resulting in a focal point coplanar with a lowermost plane of spacer member . In this way in some embodiments the geometry of the compact lens system can be selected such that the focal length of compact lens system 620 m taken from the center of lenses is located to clearly focus upon samples below compact lens system and likewise exit compact lens system above in a converging fashion. In some embodiments compact lens system can produce an image at an image plane.

In operation sample is placed underneath the compact lens system at a fixed distance defined by the dimensions of compact lens system from the doublet array. The sample is then imaged through a 100 m thick glass coverslip . The distance between the lenses and the sample which affects the magnification and the NA is accurately defined by the thickness of the spacer member which can comprise a photoresist film that is patterned on the backside of the glass coverslip .

It should be understood that in some embodiments a thin film encapsulation can be placed on the top of compact lens system . The film is chosen so as not to interfere with optical performance and yet can enhance the stability of the sapphire ball lenses on the microfluidic platform.

Construction of a compact lens system can begin with an optical simulation Oslo to calculate the focal point the NA and magnification of the microlens chip see . Then NA and magnification are plotted as a function to the distance of the sample from the focal plane of the array. That distance coinciding with the spacer thickness as the focal plane of the array is located at the backside of the glass coverslip. Assuming a minimum spacer thickness of 5 10 m e.g. when imaging a cell the magnification and NA can reach a maximum value of 120 and 1.2 respectively. As the spacer thickness increases there is a dramatic reduction in the magnification while the NA decreases almost linearly. The spacer thickness from our experiment is varied from 100 to 250 m.

In some embodiments the microfabrication of the compact lens system is completed in the following steps as illustrated in . It should be understood however that alternative manufacturing techniques can be employed including those using alternative materials such as plastic metal and the like. A manufacturing process using silicon can include 

1 a 200 nm thick silicon dioxide film is deposited and patterned on a 400 m thick silicon wafer to define the microfluidic network 

4 a 100 m thick glass coverslip having a 10 m thick SU 8 layer on its backside is attached to the silicon wafer using epoxy 

As illustrated in the compact lens system can also be used as an add on module in a low cost low NA stereoscope to achieve high resolution imaging compared to a conventional stereoscope see . Such a configuration can be useful in a resource limited setting or in the doctor s office where a high end microscope is not available. As illustrated in the Modulation Transfer Function MTF of a stereoscope Olympus sz61 using compact lens system was obtained by imaging line pairs from a resolution test chart using a 10 m spacer. Even the smallest line pairs of 0.78 m line width were clearly distinguishable. Therefore according to the principles of the present teachings resolution can approach the theoretical limit.

As illustrated in the ability of the combined system e.g. stereoscope Olympus sz61 using compact lens system to image microspheres and cells was demonstrated in brightfield transmission and epi fluorescence modes using a 10 m spacer. In both cases individual 2 m diameter microspheres and blood cells were clearly visible. Finally to demonstrate wide field of view imaging the compact lens system was used to image in vivo the nematode at different developmental stages . The field of view was 200 m in diameter for each lens on the array. In this case the spacer thickness was adjusted to 210 m in order to compensate for the thick worm body.

While the top killer diseases in developed countries are heart diseases and cancers the leading cause of death in developing countries are infectious diseases and indeed the majority of infectious diseases can be prevented by proper diagnosis and treatments.

To design diagnostic technology for the developing world it is critical to follow WHO guidelines for accessibility specificity ease to use affordability speed and robustness. In these requirements it is natural for researchers to use microfluidics because microfluidic systems are compact mass producible need low power short processing times and can have high sensitivity at low cost. Microfluidic system can also potentially make a significant contribution in monitoring pathological conditions especially in resource limited settings.

Flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy are tools which are used extensively both in biomedical research and clinical diagnostics. Currently fluorescence based flow cytometers operating by laser light scattering and laser induced fluorescence principles are the gold standard to provide accurate CD4 T lymphocyte counting at high throughputs. Flow cytometers although extremely accurate and high throughput are expensive bulky instruments that require regular maintenance and well trained technicians to operate.

The significance of having a low cost high resolution imaging system such as compact lens system which can match the resolution of very expensive bulky microscopes and accuracy of flow cytometers for counting cells cannot be under stated. The present teachings can be used in low resource settings as well as point of care with very low cost. The present teachings permit one to count red blood cells white blood cells identify abnormalities in the blood cells sickle cell anemia malaria etc. instantly. In addition to the diagnostic applications the present teachings can also be revolutionary in education and research. It will be a revolutionary instrument in research and educational laboratories. A compact system which can provide optical resolution down to the theoretical resolution limit and do it in a package even individual students can afford.

The present teachings provide a simple optical system consisting of spherical sapphire ball lenses placed on top of an array of index matching oil filled lens wells microfabricated on a silicon chip. In this configuration the ball lenses act as an array of doublet lenses very similar to the immersion objectives of high resolution microscopes. This Microfluidic based Oil Immersion Lens Oil array system provides optical performance resolution NA equivalent to the performance of a conventional microscope objective but it also enables wide field of view imaging as its size can be easily scaled up by increasing the number of lenses in the array.

The present teachings also provide an opportunity to combine the compact lens system with a low cost CMOS camera a compact light source and image analysis software for counting purposes. This compact 3 3 3 in unoptimized prototype version can be easily carried to use in diagnostic purposes in low resource settings.

The present teachings can be used in conjunction with fluorescent imaging using both total internal reflection as well as zero mode waveguide configurations. It is anticipated that the present system can be used to prepare disposable microfluidic sample preparation handling chips to use with the integrated system so that no sample preparation will be required.

In some embodiment as illustrated in the present teachings provide a compact high resolution optofluidic imaging system for visualizing and counting red blood cells RBC employing compact lens system . It should be understood that the present system can be used for counting white blood cell imaging biological specimens in a resource limited setting or at the doctor s office. In some embodiments the system has a footprint of 7 cm 7 cm and a total height of 6 cm.

In some embodiments as illustrated in imaging system operates in bright field mode can comprises compact lens system a commercially available haemocytometer CMOS sensor 112 2.2 2.2 m pixel size and a blue collimated LED . The haemocytometer is a thick glass slide which forms a 100 m microfluidic cell counting chamber known as the Neubauer chamber when a glass coverslip is placed on top of it. A custom made plastic housing can be manufactured to secure all components in place except the haemocytometer that is manually inserted into the housing from the side.

The haemocytometer containing the blood sample is illuminated by the LED centered at 470 nm from below. The transmitted light is collected by the high numerical aperture NA lenses of the compact lens system and is focused on the CMOS sensor that is placed 3 4 mm above the compact lens system . To achieve a sharp well focused image the exact distance between the compact lens system and the CMOS sensor is manually adjusted using a set of screws . Finally the CMOS sensor is connected to a computer that acquires and analyzes the image.

In some embodiments the compact lens system includes 16 sapphire ball lenses 1 mm in diameter refractive index of 1.77 integrated on top of a 4 4 array of oil filled lens wells. The compact lens system is placed directly on top of the haemocytometer. In some embodiments to achieve good contact between the compact lens system and the haemocytometer coverslip and therefore eliminate any gap between them a flexible cable can be used as a spring to push the compact lens system against the coverslip. As a result the distance between the compact lens system and the sample in the Neubauer chamber is always fixed.

RBC counts were conducted with fresh whole diluted blood samples on a commercial haemocytometer Hausser Scientific covered with a 150 m thick glass coverslip . The Neubauer chamber of the haemocytometer had a total volume of 6 7 l and had a square grid pattern to facilitate cell counting . To image the haemocytometer and count the RBCs i a microscope Olympus BX51WI in epi illumination mode with a 50 objective NA 0.5 was used that was connected to a 5 MP digital camera and ii imaging system with a field of view FOV of 200 m and a NA of 0.54. In this case the distance between the cells and bottom surface of the compact lens system was 250 m RBCs tend to settle at the bottom of the Neubauer chamber . In all our imaging experiments a single lens was used from the compact lens system for consistency in the image quality.

Blood samples 10 L in volume diluted by a factor of 50 100 and 200 were pipetted into the haemocytometer and driven in the Neubauer chamber by capillary action. Images of the blood samples were captured from 5 different 200 m 200 m square areas in the grid pattern of the Neubauer chamber marked as dark boxes in . The dilution and imaging procedures used in the present comparison are the recommended values for haemocytometer based RBC counting.

For cell counting applications the field of view FOV of each lens of compact lens system is an important feature as it determines how much blood volume and therefore how many cells can be imaged. The FOV of compact lens system can be modified by changing the distance between the bottom surface of compact lens system and the sample . To estimate that dependence we used the grid pattern of the Neubauer chamber as a reference sample placed it at 100 150 175 and 200 m below the bottom surface of the compact lens system and measured the corresponding FOV. We used glass coverslips of different thicknesses to vary the distance between compact lens system and sample . We also performed optical simulations in OSLO software to estimate the corresponding resolution .

As expected the larger the distance between compact lens system and sample the larger the FOV and lower the resolution. For our RBC counting experiments as explained earlier we selected a FOV of 200 m as it matches the standardized 200 m 200 m imaging area of the Neubauer chamber depicted in . The resolution and NA in this case were estimated to be 0.53 m and 0.54 respectively.

We obtained images from diluted whole blood samples with compact lens system and with a microscope as described earlier. In both cases we used a haemocytometer with a 150 m thick glass coverslip. It was determined that the NA of the compact lens system and the microscope are similar 0.54 versus 0.5 . The compact lens system resolved details of the cell geometry size as well as the microscope . The biconcave RBC shape with the characteristic dimple in the middle was clearly visible.

It is believed that the main reason for such a difference in image quality is due to the high contrast that is generated by the bright field illumination of compact lens system . It was seen that the sapphire lens of compact lens system distorts the edges of the viewing area. That effect however did not alter the RBC counting results as cells are still identifiable.

Imaging was conducted at various blood sample dilutions by three different factors 50 100 and 200 . For all 3 dilution factors no significant differences were observed between the RBC counts obtained with the microscope and compact lens system . The compact lens system was also compared to a flow cytometer which is considered the gold standard for cell counting applications. The flow cytometer count was 4.57 million cells L see dotted line in no dilution . The RBC count from compact lens system is in good agreement with the flow cytometer results within one standard deviation for dilution factors of 50 and 100. RBC counts with larger e.g. 200 dilution factors are not recommended as there is a significant difference 10 error between the flow cytometry and compact lens system results. However standard haemocytometer based RBC counting procedures recommend a dilution factor of 200 to facilitate the manual counting process. We should also note that despite the fact that we used whole blood the presence of white blood cells WBCs does not affect the RBC count as WBCs make up only 0.1 of the total number of cells in blood and as a result they rarely appear in the images.

We developed a high resolution compact single cell imaging system for counting cells. The imaging capabilities of the system can be attributed to the use of a high NA microfabricated lens array. Although we demonstrated counting results from a single lens we anticipate that the use of the entire lens array will automate the counting process and eliminate statistical variations as the sample size number of cells counted will significantly increase. It is believed that the use of compact lens system is not limited to cell imaging counting but it can be expanded to imaging other biological samples such as bacteria microbes microorganisms and tissue samples as it provides excellent image quality that is comparable to the one obtained from high end microscopes.

In some embodiments a total internal reflection method can be used with compact lens system and CMOS camera . The configuration of the system is illustrated in . Long pass filter is placed in front of the CMOS camera . A dove prism is used to couple a blue laser light to get total internal reflection. Critical angle c is calculated from Sin 1 n2 n1 to be 42 degrees assuming light propagates from prism n2 1.52 to air n1 1 . The laser was attached to an xyz stage and adjusted so that the angle of reflection is slightly above 42 degrees. The optical array dove prism and microfluidic chip containing the biological sample are fixed only the laser is moved and scanned in either direction x or y example . Emitted fluorescent light is imaged by compact lens system onto the CMOS camera .

To test the TIR mode 4 m fluorescently labeled polystyrene spheres PS were used as sample. The image of PS taken by CMOS camera is illustrated in brightfield mode using the blue LED below the sample chip and in TIR mode using the blue laser outside the compact system.

Biological samples such as eggs and fibroblast cells are also demonstrated in . The capability of the compact lens system is demonstrated further by image fluorescent of TNXL reporter of neuron ASH left and right.

According to the principles of the present teachings a microfluidic based oil immersion lens chip with high NA submicron resolution and wide field of view imaging capabilities is provided. The compact lens system can be used as a stand alone unit in lab on chip systems as or as an add on accessory in low cost stereoscopes for various research and diagnostic biomedical applications.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

