---

title: Methods and systems for configuring radio frequency module
abstract: The present invention discloses methods and systems for configuring a Radio Frequency (RF) module by a wireless communication apparatus. An international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) is retrieved from a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, and a configuration information is identified according to the IMSI. The configuration information is then sent to the RF module, and the RF module is configured with the configuration information. The RF module may be housed in the wireless communication apparatus or in an external device, where the wireless communication apparatus is capable of connecting to the external device. The SIM card can be placed in the wireless communication apparatus or in the external device. In one variant, the configuration information is sent to the RF module only when the current configuration of the RF module needs to be changed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585001&OS=09585001&RS=09585001
owner: PISMO LABS TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
number: 09585001
owner_city: Hong Kong
owner_country: HK
publication_date: 20140521
---
The present invention relates in general to the field of computer networks. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and systems for configuring a Radio Frequency RF module by a wireless communication apparatus. A configuration information is sent to the RF module where the configuration information is identified according to an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI of a subscriber identity module SIM card.

Wireless communication apparatus that have cellular capabilities can use a Radio Frequency RF module for communicating with base stations of different wireless network service providers. An RF module can be configured manually to switch from one operating mode to another when a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card is changed or identity of wireless network service provider changes. Depending on the wireless network service provider settings at the RF module may be different for different wireless network service provider or different type of service provided by wireless network service providers. In this way the same wireless communication apparatus can operate with different SIM cards or different wireless network service providers.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 346 255 discloses configuring a mobile wireless communication device with configuration profiles based on a set of identifier values. U.S. Pat. No. 8 346 255 fails to disclose methods for configuring an RF module. It also fails to disclose methods for configuring the RF module of a wireless communication apparatus. Further it also fails to disclose methods for configuring based on international mobile subscriber identity IMSI only.

As different wireless network service providers may use different frequency values different protocols and different settings while providing services to wireless communication apparatus the wireless communication apparatus may need to configure one or more of its RF modules accordingly in order to use the wireless communication services provided by the wireless network service providers.

There is a need for methods and systems for configuring RF modules of wireless communication apparatus in order to allow the wireless communication apparatus to be able to use wireless communication services provided by different wireless network service providers.

The present invention discloses methods for configuring at least one Radio Frequency RF module by a wireless communication apparatus. An international mobile subscriber identity IMSI is retrieved from at least one subscriber identity module SIM card and a configuration information is identified according to the IMSI. The configuration information is then sent to the at least one RF module and the at least one RF module is configured with the configuration information. The at least one RF module may be housed in the wireless communication apparatus or in an external device. The wireless communication apparatus is capable of connecting to the external device. The at least one SIM card can be placed in the wireless communication apparatus or in the external device.

According to one of the embodiments the configuration information is sent to the at least one RF module only if it is determined that the current configuration of the at least one RF module needs to be changed.

According to one of the embodiments a confirmation is received from a user before sending the configuration information to the at least one RF module.

According to one of the embodiments after sending the configuration information the wireless communication apparatus verifies whether the configuration of the at least one RF module has been changed according to the configuration information.

According to one of the embodiments the at least one RF module is reset after being configured with the configuration information.

The configuration information can be information corresponding to a firmware a firmware or one or more settings. The one or more settings can be selected from a group consisting of a frequency value an Access Point Name APN an authentication information a network type and roaming network settings.

According to one of the embodiments the configuration information is substantially based on Qualcomm MSM Interface QMI protocol.

According to one of the embodiments when there are a plurality of SIM cards priorities may be assigned to a plurality of SIM cards and the IMSI of a SIM card with the highest priority is retrieved. The configuration information is thus identified according to the IMSI of the SIM card with the highest priority.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment of the invention. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Embodiments or portions thereof may be embodied in program instructions operable upon a processing unit for performing functions and operations as described herein. The program instructions making up the various embodiments may be stored in a storage medium.

The program instructions making up the various embodiments may be stored in a storage medium. Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape CD ROM flash memory devices a memory card and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage mediums magnetic mediums memory chips or cartridges wireless channels and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data. A machine readable medium can be realized by virtualization and can be a virtual machine readable medium including a virtual machine readable medium in a cloud based instance.

The term computer readable medium main memory or secondary storage as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processing unit for execution. The computer readable medium is just one example of a machine readable medium which may carry instructions for implementing any of the methods and or techniques described herein. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory. Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

A volatile storage may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by a processing unit. A non volatile storage or static storage may be used for storing static information and instructions for processor as well as various system configuration parameters.

The storage medium may include a number of software modules that may be implemented as software code to be executed by the processing unit using any suitable computer instruction type. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands or as a program in the storage medium.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk from a remote computer. Alternatively a remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions to the system that runs the one or more sequences of one or more instructions.

A processing unit may be a microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP any combination of those devices or any other circuitry configured to process information.

A processing unit executes program instructions or code segments for implementing embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program instructions to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a computer readable storage medium. A processing unit s can be realized by virtualization and can be a virtual processing unit s including a virtual processing unit in a cloud based instance.

Embodiments of the present invention are related to the use of a computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. In an embodiment the inventive processing units may reside on a machine such as a computer platform. According to one embodiment of the invention the techniques described herein are performed by computer system in response to the processing unit executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in the volatile memory. Such instructions may be read into the volatile memory from another computer readable medium. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the volatile memory causes the processing unit to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

A code segment such as program instructions may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the principles of the invention. Thus implementations consistent with principles of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

A network interface that may be provided by a node is an Ethernet interface a frame relay interface a fibre optic interface a cable interface a DSL interface a token ring interface a serial bus interface an universal serial bus USB interface Firewire interface Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI interface etc.

A network interface may be implemented by a standalone electronic component or may be integrated with other electronic components. A network interface may have no network connection or at least one network connection depending on the configuration. A network interface may be an Ethernet interface a frame relay interface a fibre optic interface a cable interface a Digital Subscriber Line DSL interface a token ring interface a serial bus interface a universal serial bus USB interface Firewire interface Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI interface cellular network interface etc.

A network interface may connect to a wired or wireless access network. An access network may carry one or more network protocol data. A wired access network may be implemented using Ethernet fiber optic cable DSL frame relay token ring serial bus USB Firewire PCI or any material that can pass information. An wireless access network may be implemented using infra red High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Long Term Evolution LTE WiMax General packet radio service GPRS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Code division multiple access CDMA WiFi CDMA2000 Wideband CDMA WCDMA Time Division CDMA TD SCDMA BLUETOOTH WiBRO Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT Digital AMPS IS 136 TDMA Integrated Digital Enhanced iDEN or any other wireless technologies. For example a network interface may be used as a local area network LAN interface or a wide area network WAN interface

Embodiments or portions thereof may be embodied in a computer data signal which may be in any suitable form for communication over a transmission medium such that it is readable for execution by a functional device e.g. processing unit for performing the operations described herein. The computer data signal may include any binary digital electronic signal that can propagate over a transmission medium such as electronic network channels optical fibers air electromagnetic media radio frequency RF links and the like and thus the data signal may be in the form of an electrical signal optical signal radio frequency or other wireless communication signal etc. The code segments may in certain embodiments be downloaded via computer networks such as the Internet an intranet local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the PSTN a satellite communication system a cable transmission system and or the like.

Universal integrated circuit cards UICC are a form of smart card used in wireless communication apparatus on various wireless communication networks. A well known version of a UICC is a subscriber identity module SIM card that can be used in wireless communication apparatus on Global System for Mobile Communications GSM wireless communication networks. Equivalents of SIM cards also include universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS SIM USIM cards on UMTS networks and Code Division Multiple Access SIM CSIM cards on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks. SIM cards can be issued by a wireless communication service provider. When a SIM card is inserted into the cellular device the processing unit of the wireless communication apparatus may then be able to identify which wireless communication service provider associated with SIM card.

In general each SIM card used for wireless communication service has a unique serial number known as an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The IMSI comprises a set of wireless network identification values. Portions of the IMSI can be accessed from the SIM card in wireless communication apparatus to configure the wireless communication apparatus for a particular wireless network service provider s network. The present invention discloses methods for configuring one or more of radio frequency RF modules of the wireless communication apparatus by making use of the set of wireless network identification values.

In a preferred embodiment RF Module used in the wireless communication apparatus is a MC7354 available from Sierra Wireless.

According to one of the embodiments as illustrated in SIM card interface and RF module are connected to each other directly. SIM card interface is not connected to system bus and hence processing unit can only communicate with SIM card interface through RF module . RF module may be connected to one or more SIM card interfaces .

In one variant SIM card interfaces and may be embedded in wireless communication apparatus . Wireless communication apparatus houses the SIM card s inserted in SIM card interfaces or .

Alternatively an external device may house one or more SIM cards and the external device is connected to wireless communication apparatus . The external device may also house one or more RF modules and thus RF module is not housed by wireless communication apparatus . For example the external device may be a Universal Serial Bus USB Long Term Evolution LTE modem and wireless communication apparatus connects to the external device through a USB interface. Wireless communication apparatus is capable of connecting to one or more external devices.

Wireless communication apparatus may be comprised in a wireless communication system. The wireless communication system comprises wireless communication apparatus at least one RF module and at least one SIM card interface. The at least one RF module is housed in the wireless communication apparatus or in an external device. The at least one SIM card interface is housed in the wireless communication apparatus or in the external device.

A configuration information may be a firmware information of a firmware one or more settings corresponding to a firmware or any information that can be used to configure RF module .

For illustration purpose retrieving IMSI in step comprise the following steps. Processing unit first sends a first message to RF module requesting for IMSI . RF module then communicates with SIM card interface and retrieves IMSI from the SIM card inserted in SIM card interface . RF module sends the retrieved IMSI to processing unit using a second message and processing unit thus retrieves IMSI .

After processing unit has retrieved IMSI it is able to determine which wireless network service provider the SIM card is associated with and hence identifies a configuration information based on the wireless network service provider according to IMSI . For example the configuration information is information corresponding to a firmware. Therefore processing unit determines a firmware that should be used by RF module according to the identity of the wireless network service provider in step . Processing unit sends a third message to RF module in step indicating the firmware corresponding to the wireless network service provider. In one variant RF module stores firmwares corresponding to one or more wireless network service providers in its own storage medium. When processing unit sends the information of the firmware RF module configures itself with the corresponding firmware that is stored in a storage medium of RF module .

In one variant as illustrated in processing unit sends a fourth message to RF module requesting for the current configuration information of RF module in step . The current configuration information is information of a configuration that RF module has already been configured with. After identifying a configuration information based on the wireless network service provider in step processing unit compares the configuration information and the current configuration information and determines whether they are the same in step . If they are not the same processing unit sends the configuration information to RF module in step and the process ends at step . If they are the same the configuration information is not sent to RF module and the process ends at step .

For illustration purposes with reference to the example above where the configuration information is information of a firmware processing unit retrieves information of the current firmware in step . The current firmware is the firmware with which the RF module has already been configured. Then in step processing unit identifies information of a firmware based on the identity of the wireless network service provider. In step processing unit determines whether the firmware identified in step and the current firmware determined in step are the same. If they are the same processing unit does not need to send the information of the firmware to RF module in order to configure it with the firmware. If they are not the same processing unit sends the third message to RF module in step indicating the information of the firmware. The process ends in step .

For illustration purposes the first second third and fourth messages are Qualcomm MSM Interface QMI messages using QMI protocol. The first message and the second message correspond to step and a command that queries the IMSI is QMI DMS UIM GET IMSI . The service type of the command is DMS and the DMS message ID is 0x0043. The first message which is sent by processing unit for requesting IMSI is a request command QMI DMS UIM GET IMSI REQ . Similarly the second message which is sent by RF module for indicating IMSI is a response command QMI DMS UIM GET IMSI RESP .

The fourth message corresponds to step . The fourth message is sent by executing a function defined in the QMI protocol. The name of the function corresponding to the fourth message is GetImagesPreference . The third message corresponds to step and is sent by executing a function defined in the QMI protocol which is named SetImagesPreference . The function SetImagesPreferences can be executed with parameters according to the corresponding firmware and hence RF module is configured to use the corresponding firmware.

In one variant the order of performing step and may be interchanged such that step may be performed before step .

In one variant referring to and after step RF module is or reset after it is configured according to the configuration information sent by processing unit . Resetting RF module may be required in order to apply changes corresponding to the configuration information. For example when RF module is configured with a firmware RF module is reset in order for the firmware to be applied i.e. so that RF module starts using settings corresponding to the firmware.

In one variant when a SIM card is inserted or re inserted in SIM card interface the process of or is performed and the RF module is reset. In another variant when wireless communication apparatus is turned on or restarted the process of or is performed.

In one variant the configuration information is a firmware. Processing unit may retrieve a firmware from secondary storage or main memory and send the firmware to RF module in step . RF module is then configured with the firmware.

In one variant the configuration information is a setting corresponding to a firmware. For example the setting is a frequency to be used by RF module . Processing unit identifies a frequency value or frequency band based on the wireless network service provider and sends the frequency value in step to RF module . For illustration purpose processing unit determines that IMSI of a SIM card inserted in SIM card interface is 310070123456789 . MCC and MNC values are 310 and 070 respectively. Therefore processing unit is able to identify that the wireless network service provider is AT T Mobility. In step processing unit identifies a configuration information which is the frequency value. Processing unit identifies the frequency value to be used is 700 MHz for AT T Mobility. RF module is configured with the configuration information and thus starts using 700 MHz for communicating.

The scope of the invention is not limited to the setting being a frequency value such that the settings can be any settings of an RF module that can be configured by processing unit .

In one example the setting is an Access Point Name APN . RF module uses the APN for having Internet Protocol IP based connectivity. For example processing unit determines the APN based on the identity of the wireless network service provider and then sends the APN to RF module so that wireless communication apparatus can connect to the internet.

In another example the setting is an authentication information. RF module can be configured to use one of Password Authentication Protocol PAP and Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol CHAP . Processing unit sends the setting to RF module as the configuration information and RF module is configured to use an authentication protocol specified in the setting in order to connect to a network provided by the wireless network service provider.

In another example the setting is a network type. When the SIM card is subscribed to a LTE service RF module can be configured to use a specific network type such as 2G 3G or LTE. Processing unit can send a setting specifying a network type as the configuration information to RF module . RF module is then configured to use the network type specified in the setting.

In another example the setting is a roaming network setting. Processing unit can enable or disable roaming services for RF module . Processing unit can send a setting to enable roaming services or a setting to disable roaming services to RF module as configuration information and RF module is configured according to the setting. When wireless communication apparatus is being used outside the area of coverage of a wireless network service provider associated with the SIM card RF module connects to a roaming network if the setting was to enable roaming services. Alternatively RF module does not connect to a roaming network if the setting was to disable roaming services.

The settings can be entered by a user or administrator of wireless communication apparatus locally or remotely through a web interface an application programming interface API a command line interface or a console. The settings can also be stored at secondary storage or main memory and retrieved by processing unit .

The difference between the processes in and is that in RF module is only configured to switch its operating mode and reset when the current configuration information is not the same as a configuration information identified in step . It is known to those skilled in the art that configuring and resetting RF module may take a few minutes. When wireless communication apparatus is turned on or restarted RF module may always be reset after step in the process of . However in the process of RF module is reset in step only when the operating mode needs to be switched i.e. the configuration information and the current configuration information is determined not to be the same in step . On the other hand the additional steps and in may also cause a delay when turning on or restarting wireless communication apparatus .

In one of the embodiments of the present invention when RF module configures itself with a firmware corresponding to a wireless network service provider RF module starts using settings that correspond to the firmware.

It is known to those skilled in the arts that a RF module such as RF module can operate on different frequencies depending on the wireless network service provider associated with a SIM card inserted in SIM card interface and hence wireless communication apparatus can have cellular connectivity through the wireless network provided by the wireless network service provider. For example the frequency range used by Company A may be 1900 MHz or 1700 MHz and 2100 MHz while the frequency range used by Company B may be 800 MHz or 1700 MHz and 2100 MHz. Similarly the frequency range used by Company A for may be 800 MHz 1900 MHz or 2500 MHz.

For a better understanding an illustrative scenario is provided here. For example wireless communication apparatus currently has a first SIM card inserted in SIM card interface and the first SIM card is associated with AT T Mobility. RF module is currently configured with a first configuration corresponding to AT T Mobility. The operating mode is configured for RF module being used in AT T network. Now the first SIM card is ejected and a second SIM card associated with Verizon Communications is inserted in SIM card interface . The configuration of RF module should be changed to a second configuration corresponding to Verizon Communications. When the second SIM card is inserted processing unit retrieves the IMSI of the second SIM card in step . When in step processing unit retrieves the current configuration information it is determined that the current configuration is the first configuration corresponding to AT T mobility. In step processing unit identifies the second configuration corresponding to Verizon Communications. In step it is determined that the current configuration is not the same as the second configuration and hence in step processing unit sends configuration information corresponding to Verizon Communications to RF module . RF module is configured with the second configuration corresponding to Verizon Communications. The operating mode is configured for RF module being used in Verizon network. Thus RF module starts using settings corresponding to Verizon Communications.

In step processing unit determines whether a confirmation is received from the user. The confirmation may be sent by the user to confirm sending configuration information to RF module . Therefore if a confirmation is received processing unit sends the configuration information to RF module in step . If no confirmation is received from the user processing unit does not send the configuration information to RF module and the process ends at step .

For example the configuration information is a roaming network setting which enables roaming services for RF module . Before processing unit sends the configuration information to RF module a user is informed that RF module is going to be configured to connect to a roaming network. In order to avoid roaming charges the user may not confirm sending the configuration information to RF module so that roaming services are not enabled for RF module .

In one of the embodiments as illustrated in steps and may be performed after step if the configuration information is not determined to be the same as the current configuration information in step .

In step processing unit may determine whether the corresponding response is as expected by comparing the corresponding response with an information that is predetermined and stored in secondary storage or main memory . Alternatively the information may also be retrieved from a remote server. The information may comprise the expected response such as an expected frequency.

For example the third message comprises information of a firmware corresponding to AT T mobility and RF module is configured with the firmware. When RF module is configured with the firmware corresponding to AT T mobility RF module uses a certain frequency range. In order to ensure that the correct frequency range is being used RF module sends a response indicating the frequency range using a fifth message. When processing unit receives the fifth message in step processing unit determines whether the frequency range is as expected in step . This ensures that RF module accurately received the third message and determined the frequency range. Processing unit may retrieve the expected frequency range stored in secondary storage or main memory and compare it with the frequency range indicated in the fifth message. Hence processing unit can determine whether the frequency range indicated in the fifth message is as expected.

In one of the embodiments as illustrated in steps and may be performed after step if the configuration information is not determined to be the same as the current configuration information in step .

For example the configuration information is information of the firmware. RF module may have several firmwares stored in a storage medium. In step RF module retrieves the firmware that was specified in the configuration information and RF module is then configured with the corresponding firmware in step . In step RF module switches to an operating mode according to the firmware and uses settings specified in the firmware.

In one variant RF module should be reset after step so that it may start using settings corresponding to the configuration information in step .

In one variant RF module may not have the firmware corresponding to the configuration information stored in its storage medium. In step RF module may then retrieve the firmware from a remote server or may send a message to processing unit . The message may comprise information that the firmware is not stored in RF module . The message may also comprise a request for sending the firmware to RF module as a configuration information. When processing unit receives the request for sending the firmware processing unit may retrieve the firmware locally from secondary storage or main memory or processing unit may retrieve the firmware from a remote server. Processing unit then sends the firmware as the configuration information to RF module and thus RF module is configured with the firmware. Alternatively processing unit may send a notification to the user requesting the user to manually store the firmware in RF module or secondary storage or main memory . RF module can then be configured with the firmware.

According to one of the embodiments of the present invention wireless communication apparatus may have one or more SIM card interfaces and one or more RF module . For example when wireless communication apparatus has a first SIM card interface and a second SIM card interface . Priorities may be assigned to SIM cards inserted in the first and second SIM card interface . RF module is configured based on IMSI of a SIM card with highest priority. For illustration purpose a first SIM card is inserted in the first SIM card interface and a second SIM card is inserted in the second SIM card interface . The first SIM card is assigned with the highest priority and the second SIM card is assigned with the lowest priority. Therefore processing unit sends configuration information corresponding to IMSI of the first SIM card to RF module such that RF module is configured to use settings or an operating mode corresponding to a wireless network service provider of the first SIM card. The priorities may be assigned to the first and second SIM card using a predefined configuration of wireless communication apparatus . Alternatively a user of wireless communication apparatus can assign the priorities to the first and second SIM card by configuring wireless communication apparatus through a web interface an application programming interface API a command line interface or a console.

In one example the priority is based on the position of a SIM card i.e. whether a SIM card is housed in wireless communication apparatus or the SIM card is housed in an external device.

According to one of the embodiments of the present invention a SIM card interface selector connects a plurality of SIM card interfaces to RF module . The SIM card interface selector is controlled by processing unit . Examples of a SIM card interface selector for two SIM card interfaces include TXS02326 Dual Supply 2 1 SIM Card Multiplexer Translator supplied by Texas Instruments and LTC4557 Dual SIM Smart Card Power Supply and Interface supplied by Linear Technology. Processing unit may instruct the SIM card interface selector to select one of the SIM card interfaces from the plurality of SIM card interfaces.

According to one of the embodiments the selection may be performed according to received signal quality predefined priority preferences price and etc.

According to one of the embodiments of the present invention processing unit may use the SIM card interface selector to select a SIM card based on event triggers. Event triggers include but are not limited to a geographic location trigger a data usage trigger a received signal quality trigger a time trigger a duration of usage trigger a billing cycle trigger etc. Event triggers may be referred to as a first event trigger and a second event trigger. Processing unit may select a first SIM card and start using the first SIM card when the first event trigger occurs. Processing unit may then stop using the first SIM card when the second event trigger occurs. Processing unit may also start using a second SIM card when the second event trigger occurs. In one variant a plurality of triggers can be combined to form an event trigger. For example the first event trigger can be based on a geographic location trigger and a data usage trigger. In another example the second event trigger can be based on the duration of usage trigger and the billing cycle information trigger. In one variant the first event trigger and the second event trigger can be based on the same trigger s .

In another example wireless communication apparatus houses or is connected to an external device housing a first SIM card a second SIM card and also a first RF module and a second RF module . The first SIM card is inserted in a first SIM card interface and the second SIM card is inserted in a second SIM card interface . For illustration purpose processing unit sends configuration information corresponding to IMSI of the first SIM card to the first RF module such that the first RF module is configured to use settings or an operating mode corresponding to a wireless network service provider of the first SIM card. Similarly processing unit sends configuration information corresponding to IMSI of the second SIM card to the second RF module such that the second RF module is configured to use settings or an operating mode corresponding to a wireless network service provider of the second SIM card.

In another example wireless communication apparatus may have a first RF module and a second RF module . When the first SIM card interface has a first SIM card inserted but the second SIM card interface does not have a second SIM card inserted processing unit may select one of the first RF module and the second RF module for sending configuration information corresponding to IMSI of the first SIM card. For example when the first RF module is selected processing unit sends configuration information corresponding to IMSI of the first SIM card to the first RF module and the first RF module is configured to use settings or an operating mode corresponding to a wireless network service provider of the first SIM card.

The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

