---

title: Interleaving conductive elements of a capacitive-sense array
abstract: Apparatuses and methods of sense arrays with interleaving sense elements are described. One capacitive-sense array includes a repeating pattern having a first conductive element with a first polygon shape and a first width defined along a second axis that is perpendicular to the first axis; a second conductive element having a second polygon shape and a second width defined along a third axis that is perpendicular to the first axis and parallel to the second axis; a third conductive element having the first polygon shape and the first width defined along a fourth axis that is perpendicular to the first axis and parallel to the second axis; and a fourth conductive element having the second polygon shape and the second width defined along a fifth axis that is perpendicular to the first axis and parallel to the second axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563318&OS=09563318&RS=09563318
owner: MONTEREY RESEARCH, LLC
number: 09563318
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141027
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 098 057 filed Dec. 5 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 875 863 filed Sep. 10 2013 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to sensing systems and more particularly to capacitance sensing systems configurable to determine touch locations of touches on the capacitive sensing systems.

Capacitance sensing systems can sense electrical signals generated on electrodes that reflect changes in capacitance. Such changes in capacitance can indicate a touch event i.e. the proximity of an object to particular electrodes . Capacitive sense elements may be used to replace mechanical buttons knobs and other similar mechanical user interface controls. The use of a capacitive sense element allows for the elimination of complicated mechanical switches and buttons providing reliable operation under harsh conditions. In addition capacitive sense elements are widely used in modern customer applications providing new user interface options in existing products. Capacitive sense elements can range from a single button to a large number arranged in the form of a capacitive sense array for a touch sensing surface.

Transparent touch screens that utilize capacitive sense arrays are ubiquitous in today s industrial and consumer markets. They can be found on cellular phones GPS devices set top boxes cameras computer screens MP3 players digital tablets and the like. The capacitive sense arrays work by measuring the capacitance of a capacitive sense element and looking for a delta in capacitance indicating a touch or presence of a conductive object. When a conductive object e.g. a finger hand or other object comes into contact or close proximity with a capacitive sense element the capacitance changes and the conductive object is detected. The capacitance changes of the capacitive touch sense elements can be measured by an electrical circuit. The electrical circuit converts the measured capacitances of the capacitive sense elements into digital values.

There are two typical types of capacitance 1 mutual capacitance where the capacitance sensing circuit has access to both electrodes of the capacitor 2 self capacitance where the capacitance sensing circuit has only access to one electrode of the capacitor where the second electrode is tied to a DC voltage level or is parasitically coupled to Earth Ground. A touch panel has a distributed load of capacitance of both types 1 and 2 and Cypress touch solutions sense both capacitances either uniquely or in hybrid form with its various sense modes.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques are not shown in detail but rather in a block diagram in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring an understanding of this description.

Reference in the description to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The phrase in one embodiment located in various places in this description does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Apparatuses and methods of sense arrays with interleaving sense elements are described. One capacitive sense array includes a first electrode and a second electrode disposed adjacent to the first electrode in a first axis. The capacitive sense array comprises a sensor pitch in the first axis. The first electrode includes a first sense element including a first shape and a first interleaving sense element that interleaves with a first portion and a second portion of the second electrode to extend a first dimension of the first electrode to be greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis. The second electrode includes a second sense element including the first shape and a second interleaving sense element that interleaves with a first portion and a second portion of the first electrode to extend a second dimension of the second electrode to be greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis. In some embodiments the first dimension is greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis by two or more. The embodiments described herein include different shapes and patterns with interleaving sense elements. Embodiments of interleaving sense elements can be disposed so that a dimension width or height of the electrode is more than the sensor pitch in that dimension. In some cases the dimension is twice or more than twice the sensor pitch in that dimension. In other embodiments the dimension may be greater than the sensor pitch by other factors than two. The embodiments described herein are directed to specific geometries but other geometries of the shapes and patterns can be utilized. In some embodiments the interleaving sense elements can be used in one dimension. In other embodiments the interleaving sense elements can be used in multiple dimensions. Various embodiments of the interleaving sense elements are described below with respect to .

In one embodiment the sense array includes electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sense array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In an alternative embodiment without an analog bus each pin may instead be connected either to a circuit that generates a transmit TX signal or to an individual receive RX sensor circuit. The capacitive sense array may include a multi dimension capacitive sense array. The multi dimension sense array includes multiple sense elements organized as rows and columns. In another embodiment the capacitive sense array operates as an all points addressable APA mutual capacitive sense array. In another embodiment the capacitive sense array operates as a coupled charge receiver. In another embodiment the capacitive sense array is non transparent capacitive sense array e.g. PC touchpad . The capacitive sense array may be disposed to have a flat surface profile. Alternatively the capacitive sense array may have non flat surface profiles. Alternatively other configurations of capacitive sense arrays may be used. For example instead of vertical columns and horizontal rows the capacitive sense array may have a hexagon arrangement or the like as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. In one embodiment the capacitive sense array may be included in an ITO panel or a touch screen panel.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensing circuit may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensing circuit may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a touch detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensing circuit may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensing circuit having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensing circuit is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output i.e. density domain instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In another embodiment the capacitance sensing circuit includes a TX signal generator to generate a TX signal to be applied to the TX electrode and a receiver also referred to as a sensing channel such as an integrator coupled to measure an RX signal on the RX electrode. In a further embodiment the capacitance sensing circuit includes an analog to digital converter ADC coupled to an output of the receiver to convert the measured RX signal to a digital value capacitance value . The digital value can be further processed by the processing device the host or both.

The processing device is configured to detect one or more touches on a touch sensing device such as the capacitive sense array . The processing device can detect conductive objects such as touch objects fingers or passive styluses an active stylus or any combination thereof. The capacitance sensing circuit can measure touch data on the capacitive sense array . The touch data may be represented as multiple cells each cell representing an intersection of sense elements e.g. electrodes of the capacitive sense array . The capacitive sense elements are electrodes of conductive material such as copper. The sense elements may also be part of an ITO panel. The capacitive sense elements can be configurable to allow the capacitive sensing circuit to measure self capacitance mutual capacitance or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the touch data is a 2D capacitive image of the capacitive sense array . In one embodiment when the capacitance sensing circuit measures mutual capacitance of the touch sensing device e.g. capacitive sense array the capacitance sensing circuit obtains a 2D capacitive image of the touch sensing device and processes the data for peaks and positional information. In another embodiment the processing device is a microcontroller that obtains a capacitance touch signal data set such as from a sense array and finger detection firmware executing on the microcontroller identifies data set areas that indicate touches detects and processes peaks calculates the coordinates or any combination therefore. The firmware identifies the peaks using the embodiments described herein. The firmware can calculate a precise coordinate for the resulting peaks. In one embodiment the firmware can calculate the precise coordinates for the resulting peaks using a centroid algorithm which calculates a centroid of the touch the centroid being a center of mass of the touch. The centroid may be an X Y coordinate of the touch. Alternatively other coordinate interpolation algorithms may be used to determine the coordinates of the resulting peaks. The microcontroller can report the precise coordinates to a host processor as well as other information.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively they may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensing circuit and determine the state of the sense array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sense array e.g. determining the presence of the object resolve where the object is on the sense array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sense array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

As illustrated capacitance sensing circuit may be integrated into processing device . Capacitance sensing circuit may include analog I O for coupling to an external component such as touch sensor pad not shown capacitive sense array touch sensor slider not shown touch sensor buttons not shown and or other devices. The capacitance sensing circuit may be configurable to measure capacitance using mutual capacitance sensing techniques self capacitance sensing technique charge coupling techniques or the like. In one embodiment capacitance sensing circuit operates using a charge accumulation circuit a capacitance modulation circuit or other capacitance sensing methods known by those skilled in the art. In an embodiment the capacitance sensing circuit is of the Cypress TMA 3xx TMA 4xx or TMA xx families of touch screen controllers. Alternatively other capacitance sensing circuits may be used. The mutual capacitive sense arrays or touch screens as described herein may include a transparent conductive sense array disposed on in or under either a visual display itself e.g. LCD monitor or a transparent substrate in front of the display. In an embodiment the TX and RX electrodes are configured in rows and columns respectively. It should be noted that the rows and columns of electrodes can be configured as TX or RX electrodes by the capacitance sensing circuit in any chosen combination. In one embodiment the TX and RX electrodes of the sense array are configurable to operate as a TX and RX electrodes of a mutual capacitive sense array in a first mode to detect touch objects and to operate as electrodes of a coupled charge receiver in a second mode to detect a stylus on the same electrodes of the sense array. The stylus which generates a stylus TX signal when activated is used to couple charge to the capacitive sense array instead of measuring a mutual capacitance at an intersection of a RX electrode and a TX electrode including one or more sense element as done during mutual capacitance sensing. An intersection between two sense elements may be understood as a location at which one sense electrode crosses over or overlaps another while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. The capacitance sensing circuit does not use mutual capacitance or self capacitance sensing to measure capacitances of the sense elements when performing a stylus sensing. Rather the capacitance sensing circuit measures a charge that is capacitively coupled between the sense array and the stylus as described herein. The capacitance associated with the intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and RX electrode. When a touch object such as a finger or stylus approaches the capacitive sense array the object causes a decrease in mutual capacitance between some of the TX RX electrodes. In another embodiment the presence of a finger increases the coupling capacitance of the electrodes. Thus the location of the finger on the capacitive sense array can be determined by identifying the RX electrode having a decreased coupling capacitance between the RX electrode and the TX electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decreased capacitance was measured on the RX electrode. Therefore by sequentially determining the capacitances associated with the intersection of electrodes the locations of one or more inputs can be determined. It should be noted that the process can calibrate the sense elements intersections of RX and TX electrodes by determining baselines for the sense elements. It should also be noted that interpolation may be used to detect finger position at better resolutions than the row column pitch as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. In addition various types of coordinate interpolation algorithms may be used to detect the center of the touch as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

It should also be noted that the embodiments described herein are not limited to having a configuration of a processing device coupled to a host but may include a system that measures the capacitance on the sensing device and sends the raw data to a host computer where it is analyzed by an application. In effect the processing that is done by processing device may also be done in the host.

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

Capacitance sensing circuit may be integrated into the IC of the processing device or alternatively in a separate IC. Alternatively descriptions of capacitance sensing circuit may be generated and compiled for incorporation into other integrated circuits. For example behavioral level code describing the capacitance sensing circuit or portions thereof may be generated using a hardware descriptive language such as VHDL or Verilog and stored to a machine accessible medium e.g. CD ROM hard disk floppy disk etc. . Furthermore the behavioral level code can be compiled into register transfer level RTL code a netlist or even a circuit layout and stored to a machine accessible medium. The behavioral level code the RTL code the netlist and the circuit layout may represent various levels of abstraction to describe capacitance sensing circuit .

It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include some of the components described above.

In one embodiment the electronic system is used in a tablet computer. Alternatively the electronic device may be used in other applications such as a notebook computer a mobile handset a personal data assistant PDA a keyboard a television a remote control a monitor a handheld multi media device a handheld media audio and or video player a handheld gaming device a signature input device for point of sale transactions an eBook reader global position system GPS or a control panel. The embodiments described herein are not limited to touch screens or touch sensor pads for notebook implementations but can be used in other capacitive sensing implementations for example the sensing device may be a touch sensor slider not shown or touch sensor buttons e.g. capacitance sensing buttons . In one embodiment these sensing devices include one or more capacitive sensors or other types of capacitance sensing circuitry. The operations described herein are not limited to notebook pointer operations but can include other operations such as lighting control dimmer volume control graphic equalizer control speed control or other control operations requiring gradual or discrete adjustments. It should also be noted that these embodiments of capacitive sensing implementations may be used in conjunction with non capacitive sensing elements including but not limited to pick buttons sliders ex. display brightness and contrast scroll wheels multi media control ex. volume track advance etc. handwriting recognition and numeric keypad operation.

Capacitance sensing circuit includes multiplexer control demultiplexer multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sense array . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of sense array . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with the intersections of all TX electrodes and RX electrodes can be measured by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When a conductive object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a decrease in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining changes in the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected and the associated magnitude of capacitance change at each respective electrode.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor intersections when compared to or offset by the associated codes of these same sensors in an un touched state may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sense array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculated centroid locations from the processing device .

The capacitive sense array illustrated in includes electrodes arranged to create a pattern of interconnected diamond shapes. Specifically the electrodes of sense array form a single solid diamond SSD pattern. In one embodiment each intersection between a row electrode and a column electrode defines a unit cell. Each point within the unit cell is closer to the associated intersection than to any other intersection. For example unit cell contains the points that are closest to the intersection between row electrode and column electrode .

In one embodiment a capacitive touch sensing system may collect data from the entire touch sensing surface by performing a scan to measure capacitances of the unit cells that comprise the touch sensing surface then process the data serially or in parallel with a subsequent scan. For example one system that processes data serially may collect raw capacitance data from each unit cell of the entire touch sensing surface and filter the raw data. Based on the filtered raw data the system may determine local maxima corresponding to local maximum changes in capacitance to calculate positions of fingers or other conductive objects then perform post processing of the resolved positions to report locations of the conductive objects or to perform other functions such as motion tracking or gesture recognition.

In one embodiment a touch sensing system may be configured to perform one or both of self capacitance sensing and mutual capacitance sensing. One embodiment of a capacitive touch sensing system that is configured to perform self capacitance sensing may in sequence or in parallel measure the self capacitance of each row and column electrode of the touch sensing surface such that the total number of sense operations is N M for a capacitive sense array having N rows and M columns. In one embodiment the touch sensing system may be capable of connecting individual electrodes together to be sensed in parallel with a single operation. For example multiple row and or column electrodes may be coupled together and sensed in a single operation to determine whether a conductive object is touching or near the touch sensing surface. In an alternate embodiment the touch sensing system may be capable of connecting each row electrode to it is own sensing circuit such that all row electrodes may be sensed in parallel with a single operation. The touch sensing system may also be capable of connecting each column electrode to its own sensing circuit such that all column electrodes may be sensed in parallel with a single operation. The touch sensing system may also be capable of connecting all row and column electrodes to their own sensing circuits such that all row and column electrodes may be sensed in parallel with a single operation.

In one embodiment a touch sensing system may perform mutual capacitance sensing of the touch sensing surface by individually sensing each intersection between a row electrode and a column electrode. Thus a total number of sense operations for a capacitive sense array having X rows and Y columns is X Y. In one embodiment performing a mutual capacitance measurement of a unit cell formed at the intersection of a row electrode and a column electrode includes applying a signal TX to one electrode and measuring characteristics of the signal on another electrode resulting from the capacitive coupling between the electrodes.

In one embodiment multiple capacitance sensing circuits may be used in parallel to measure a signal coupled to multiple column electrodes simultaneously from a signal applied to one or more row electrodes. In one embodiment for a capacitive sense array having X rows Y columns and N columns that can be sensed simultaneously the number of mutual capacitance sensing operations is the smallest whole number greater than or equal to X Y N.

In one embodiment each update of the touch locations may include a sensing portion and a non sensing portion. The sensing portion may include measurement of capacitance associated with intersections between electrodes while the non sensing portion may include calculation of touch locations based on the capacitance measurements and reporting of the calculated touch locations to a host device.

Spatial accuracy of a passive stylus with existing sensor cells also referred to as a unit cell or intersection of a pair of electrodes is limited because of low signals in the sensor cell under the passive stylus cells i 1 i and i 1 . Because of low sensitivity it is challenging to use a passive stylus for hand writing in a small screen on a device such as a 10 15 mm box on a screen.

Good positional accuracy of the stylus reported position is needed for handwriting recognition by the sense array. Some handwriting requires that there be no more than 0.5 mm positional error in the presence of noise. The two dimensional 2D measurement method is very helpful to combat the charger noise but it can be used only with sensor cells which have symmetric capacitances Cf rx and Cf tx.

Achieving good accuracy is challenging when the sensor pitch is wider than the stylus tip. illustrates an embodiment of a capacitive sense array having a double solid diamond DSD pattern. The DSD sensor cells of the DSD pattern may have a sensor pitch of 4 mm. This sensor cell features electrodes built of diamond shape sense elements. Typically row electrodes in one direction are linked with indium tin oxide ITO necks in the same layer while column electrodes are linked by bridges jumpers . When a typical stylus e.g. 2 mm stylus is moved above the sensor unit cell in the x direction it produces the signal profile shown in .

The embodiments described herein are directed to unit cells that include interleaving sense elements. An electrode can be made up of tessellated sense elements having different shapes such as rows and columns of solid diamond sense elements. The sense elements are coupled together in rows or columns e.g. single solid diamond SSD pattern or in multiple rows and multiple columns e.g. double solid diamond DSD pattern . In the embodiments described herein one or more of the sense elements are interleaving elements that interleave portions of other electrodes. For example a column electrode may include some diamond shape sense elements and some interleaving sense elements that interleave with other interleaving sense elements of an adjacent column electrode as illustrated in . As illustrated in the diamond sense elements alternate with the interleaving sense elements.

In another embodiment a capacitive sense array includes a first electrode and a second electrode disposed adjacent to the first electrode in a first axis. The first electrode includes a first sense element comprising a first shape and a first interleaving sense element that interleaves with a first portion and a second portion of the second electrode to extend a first dimension width or height of the first electrode to be greater than a sensor pitch in the first axis. The first sense element and the first interleaving sense element have the same surface area. In another embodiment an area defined by a maximum width of the first electrode and a maximum of height of the first electrode is at least two times a product of the first dimension and the second dimension. The first interleaving sense element may include a base portion and an extended portion coupled to the base portion via a connecting line. The extended portion can be disposed to interleave with the other portions of the second electrode. The surface area of the base portion and extended portion has the same surface area as the first sense element. In some embodiments the shapes of the base portion and extended portion are such that they would form the same shape as the first sense electrode if connected. For example as illustrated in the extended portion is a diamond shape and the base portion has an L shape or a reverse L shape and the connecting line couples the diamond shape and the L shape or reverse L shape.

In a further embodiment the sense array includes the second electrode that includes a second sense element with the same shape as the first sense element and a second interleaving sense element that interleaves with a first portion and a second portion of the first interleaving sense element to extend a second dimension of the second electrode to be greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis. The second dimension may be greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis by two or more. In further embodiments the first electrode includes two columns or two rows of first sense elements and first interleaving sense elements. The first electrode and the second electrode may be part of a first set of electrodes that are disposed in a first axis and a second set of electrodes are disposed in a second axis. One of the second set of electrodes can include a third sense element and a third interleaving sense element that interleaves with a first portion and a second portion of another one of the second set to extend a third dimension of one electrode to be greater than a second sensor pitch of the sense array in the second axis. The second sensor pitch can be the same or different than the sensor pitch in the first axis. The third dimension may be greater than the sensor pitch in the second axis by two or more. The first set of electrodes and the second set of electrodes can be disposed to form multiple unit cells each corresponding to an intersection of a pair of electrodes including one electrode from the first set and one electrode from the second set.

In one embodiment the first set of electrodes is a modified DSD pattern including a first line of interconnected electrodes including first diamond shape elements and first interleaving elements that interleave with portions of the second electrode on a first side and a second line of interconnected electrodes including second diamond shape elements and second interleaving elements that interleave with portions of a third electrode on a second side as illustrated in .

In another embodiment the first electrode and the second electrode are part of a first set of electrodes in the first axis and a second set of electrode disposed in the second axis. In some embodiments the first set of electrode and the second set of electrodes are disposed in a single layer such as illustrated in the embodiments of . illustrates various embodiments of the first and second sets of electrodes form a swirl region used for interleaving in the single layer. For example the swirl region can be a square swirl region a triangle swirl region a sector swirl region or the like.

The embodiments described herein can provide an improved touchscreen by improving sensitivity of measurements for sensing touch objects and by providing better positional accuracy especially for styli. The embodiments described herein can enable a touchscreen of a device such as a tablet to operate precisely with a passive stylus as well as continue to operate with fingers or other conductive objects. The embodiments describe herein can be more stylus friendly than regular sensor arrays allowing positions of the stylus to be determined with greater accuracy. The interleaving sense elements turn the electrodes into interleaved electrodes that have a greater dimension width or height than the sensor pitch. The embodiments described herein can permit detecting positions of narrow touch objects. For example a narrow touch object may be a 1.7 mm stylus or a 2 mm stylus and a regular touch object may be 7 mm or larger.

In this embodiment the capacitive sense array has a pitch in a y axis and a pitch in an x axis . The pitches and may be the same pitch or different pitches. The electrodes have a width as illustrated in the column electrode . The width is greater than the pitch . In other embodiments other dimensions of the electrodes can be used than widths such as heights. For example the row electrode electrodes can have a height not labeled that is greater than the pitch . In one embodiment the pitch is 4 mm. Alternatively other dimensions may be used. The extended portion has a dimension a labeled a. Dimension can be various sizes between 0.05 mm to 0.95 mm for the pitch of 4 mm. In one embodiment the dimension is 0.75 mm.

In this embodiment the capacitive sense array is a modified DSD pattern in which interleaving sense elements e.g. extended portions penetrate adjacent electrodes. Shapes can be made in base portions of the adjacent electrodes to interleave with the extended portions . In this embodiment every other one of the diamond sense elements is formed into interleaving sense elements. In other embodiments other alternating schemes or non alternating schemes may be used for the interleaving sense elements. In the depicted embodiment the row electrodes and the column electrodes are identical but disposed on two different axes. In other embodiments the row electrodes and the column electrodes may differ in shape and size from one another.

As illustrated in the capacitive sense array includes a repeating pattern of conductive elements disposed along a first axis . The repeating pattern includes i a first conductive element with a first polygon shape with a first width W defined along a second axis that is perpendicular to the first axis ii a second conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the first conductive element the second conductive element having a second polygon shape with a second width W defined along a third axis that is perpendicular to the first axis and parallel to the second axis iii a third conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the second conductive element the third conductive element having the first polygon shape with the first width W defined along a fourth axis that is perpendicular to the first axis and parallel to the second axis and iv a fourth conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the third conductive element the fourth conductive element having the second polygon shape with the second width W defined along a fifth axis that is perpendicular to the first axis and parallel to the second axis . As illustrated the second width second width W is greater than the first width W .

As illustrated in the capacitive sense array includes a second repeating pattern of conductive elements disposed along a sixth axis that is parallel to the first axis . The second repeating pattern includes v a fifth conductive element having the first polygon shape with the first width W vi a sixth conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the fifth conductive element the sixth conductive element having the second polygon shape with the second width W vii a seventh conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the sixth conductive element the seventh conductive element having the first polygon shape with the first width W and viii an eighth conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the seventh conductive element the eighth conductive element having the second polygon shape with the second width W . As illustrated in the second repeating pattern is electrically coupled to the repeating pattern to form the first electrode .

As illustrated in the capacitive sense array includes the second electrode disposed along a seventh axis that is parallel to the first axis . The second electrode includes a third repeating pattern of conductive elements that interlock with the repeating pattern of conductive elements of the first electrode .

As illustrated in the capacitive sense array includes a second repeating pattern of conductive elements disposed along a sixth axis that is parallel to the second axis . The second repeating pattern includes v a fifth conductive element having the first polygon shape with a third width defined along a seventh axis that is perpendicular to the sixth axis vi a sixth conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the fifth conductive element the sixth conductive element having the second polygon shape with a fourth width defined along an eighth axis that is perpendicular to the sixth axis and perpendicular to the seventh axis vii a seventh conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the sixth conductive element the seventh conductive element having the first polygon shape with the third width and viii an eighth conductive element that is electrically coupled to and co planar with the seventh conductive element the eighth conductive element having the second polygon shape with the fourth width. As illustrated in the first width and the third width are the same and the second width and the fourth width are the same.

As illustrated in the repeating pattern forms at least a portion of a first electrode in a first coordinate axis y axis of the capacitive sense array and the second repeating pattern forms at least a portion of a second electrode in a second coordinate axis x axis of the capacitive sense array .

Signal profile curves for the unit cells for the DSD array of and the interleaved DSD array are compared in .

It can be observed that for DSD array in the signal profiles Rx and Rx are crossing at near zero value approximately at 0.0015 pF . If the equivalent noise in the system is above 0.0015 pF the coordinate will not be possible to calculate. On other hand as can be observed in the interleaved DSD array the signal profiles Rx and Rx are crossing at a higher value approximately 0.007 pF level . Thus the signal in the side lobes is improved 4 times from 0.0015 to 0.007 pF which is equivalent to 4 times signal to noise SNR improvement. The embodiments have been shown be able to measure a 2 mm stylus with the interleaved DSD array and compute a position with a centroid algorithm with a positional error of 0.67 mm which is lower than 0.82 mm for 2 mm stylus being measured with the DSD array.

Embodiments of interleaved electrodes can be easily implemented in the touchscreens where DSD SSD and totem pole TP patterns are used. As described herein various patterns can be used for interleaving sense elements to form the interleaving region as referred to as a swirl region. illustrates a square swirl region according to one embodiment. In interleaving is done by rectangular shapes and linking traces that are arranged as a swirl . Other interlacing shapes are possible for instance in are shown triangular and sector shapes. illustrates a triangle swirl region according to one embodiment. illustrates a sector swirl region according to one embodiment. The swirl regions can be used for interleaving electrodes in a single layer. The swirl regions can be counterclockwise swirls or clockwise swirls. Pattern with swirls can be derived from DSD SSD or from other patterns. Examples of alternative embodiments are shown in .

Rectangular triangular and sector shapes were considered in Figures above. These shapes can be slightly modified for instance to pentagon or octagon shapes with performance remaining good enough. Also extensions of electrodes can be made with curved boundaries.

Capacitive sense arrays in general can be used for sensing metal objects in industry. This solution can improve sensitivity of measurement in industrial and biomedical applications.

Noise suppression with 2D measurement method with the embodiments of the patterns describe herein can be as good as in the case with the DSD array of .

In method begins with the processing logic applying a transmit TX signal on a first electrode of a first set of electrodes of a capacitive sense array including a sensor pitch in a first axis block . The processing logic measures a receive RX signal on a second interleaving electrode of a second set of electrodes block . The first set of electrodes intersect the second set of electrodes to form unit cells each corresponding to an intersection of a pair of electrodes comprising one electrode from the first set and one electrode from the second set. The second interleaving electrode includes a first sense element comprising a first shape and a first interleaving sense element. The first interleaving sense element is disposed to interleave with a first portion and a second portion of a third electrode of the second set of electrodes. The first interleaving sense element extends a first dimension of the second electrode to be greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis. The processing logic converts the measured RX signal into a first digital value block . The first digital value represents a first capacitance at the intersection between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In a further embodiment the processing logic measures a second RX signal on the third electrode of the second set of electrodes. The third electrode includes a second sense element comprising the first shape and a second interleaving sense element. The second interleaving sense element interleaves with a first portion and a second portion of the first interleaving sense element to extend a second dimension of the third electrode to be greater than the sensor pitch in the first axis. The processing logic converts the second RX signal into a second digital value. The second digital value represents a second capacitance at the intersection between the first electrode and the third electrode.

In a further embodiment the processing logic applies the TX signal on a fourth electrode of the first set of electrodes and measures a third RX signal on the second electrode. The processing logic converts the third RX signal into a third digital value. The third digital value represents a third capacitance at the intersection between the fourth electrode and the second electrode. The processing logic measures a fourth RX signal on the third electrode and converts the fourth RX signal into a fourth digital value. The fourth digital value represents a fourth capacitance at the intersection between the fourth electrode and the third electrode.

The method may also include scanning other interleaving electrodes as described above with respect to .

The processing logic can be implemented in a capacitive touch screen controller. In one embodiment the capacitive touch screen controller is the TrueTouch capacitive touchscreen controllers such as the CY8CTMA3xx family of TrueTouch Multi Touch All Points touchscreen controllers developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation of San Jose Calif. The TrueTouch capacitive touchscreen controllers sensing technology to resolve touch locations of multiple fingers and a stylus on the touch screens supports leading operating systems and is optimized for low power multi touch gesture and all point touchscreen functionality. Alternatively the touch position calculation features may be implemented in other touchscreen controllers or other touch controllers of touch sensing devices. In one embodiment the touch position calculation features may be implemented with other touch filtering algorithms as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The embodiments described herein may be used in various designs of mutual capacitance sensing arrays of the capacitance sensing system or in self capacitance sensing arrays. In one embodiment the capacitance sensing system detects multiple sense elements that are activated in the array and can analyze a signal pattern on the neighboring sense elements to separate noise from actual signal. The embodiments described herein are not tied to a particular capacitive sensing solution and can be used as well with other sensing solutions including optical sensing solutions as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

In the above description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as encrypting decrypting storing providing deriving obtaining receiving authenticating deleting executing requesting communicating or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

Embodiments descried herein may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media magnetic media any medium that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the embodiments as described herein.

The above description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth above are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

