---

title: Method and system for providing phone directory service for mobile communication subscriber
abstract: A method and system for providing a phone directory service to a user terminal in a mobile communication network are provided. The method includes displaying, when a search keyword for the phone directory service is input by a user, a business list including businesses corresponding to the search keyword on a screen of the user terminal, connecting a call connection with a business selected by the user among the businesses displayed on the screen, displaying at least one product image provided by the selected business on the screen during the call connection, displaying, if a desired product is selected by the user, order details for the selected product during the call connection, processing payment of the selected product during the call connection, and displaying details for the payment on the screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374462&OS=09374462&RS=09374462
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09374462
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140902
---
This is a continuation application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 271 450 filed on Oct. 12 2011 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Oct. 29 2010 and assigned Serial No. 10 2010 0107344 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a phone directory service. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and a system for providing a phone directory service for a user terminal which has subscribed to a mobile communication network.

A business phone directory service provides a user with a list or names of businesses e.g. stores pertaining to a specific category or region. The user requests a specific type of business in a specific region and receives a list identifying businesses of the specified type. Such a service is called a yellow page service .

Generally a yellow page service realizes a search function for a Yellow Book indicating a phone directory for businesses which is published by a telephone company based on the interne and is a new type of interne service which provides advertising and information at the same time based on an advantages of a phone directory and the convenience of access to the interne.

Recently as a yellow page service is provided to mobile terminals a service by which a subscriber of a mobile terminal i.e. a user is provided with more detailed information regarding an advertising provider located near his or her location. However until now business information of all advertising providers which is loaded by a communication provider has been searched for regardless of an inclination of an individual user. That is the conventional yellow page service has only listed simple information without considering an inclination of an individual user. Thus the technology of the related art cannot handle an effective advertising service which reflects personalities of users.

Aspects of the present invention are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for providing a phone directory service which reflects a preference of a user.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for providing a customized phone directory service where a communication provider considers a preference of an individual user without an explicit demand of the user of a mobile terminal.

Still another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for providing a customized yellow page service using phone statistics of subscribers whose subscriber profile and subscriber information of a communication provider are similar.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for providing a customized yellow page service where a personal preference is considered by using communication patterns of subscribers whose subscriber profile and subscriber information of a communication provider are similar.

A further aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for storing communication patterns of a group of subscribers whose subscriber information is similar and giving a high priority to the businesses searched for based on the stored communication patterns.

A still further aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for providing detailed information and an image needed by the user during a call with a business provided through a search service to the user.

A yet further aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for providing detailed information desired by the user through an interaction between the user and a business provided through a search service during a call between the user and the business.

Yet still another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and a system for implementing authentication and payment through an interaction between the user and a business provided through a search service during a communication between the user and the business.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method of providing a phone directory service to a user terminal in a mobile communication network is provided. The method includes displaying when a search keyword for the phone directory service is input by a user a business list including businesses corresponding to the search keyword on a screen of the user terminal connecting a call connection with a business selected by the user among the businesses displayed on the screen displaying at least one product image provided by the selected business on the screen during the call connection displaying if a desired product is selected by the user order details for the selected product during the call connection processing payment of the selected product during the call connection and displaying details for the payment on the screen.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a user terminal for providing a phone directory service for a mobile communication provider is provided. The user terminal includes a controller operable for connecting a call connection with a business selected among businesses displayed on a screen by a user and for processing payment of a selected product during the call connection and a screen operable for displaying when a search keyword for the phone directory service is input by the user the business list including businesses corresponding to the search keyword for displaying at least one product image provided by the selected business during the call connection for displaying when the selected product is selected by the user order details for the selected product during the call connection and for displaying details for the payment.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the invention. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

Hereinafter a specific system configuration for providing a phone directory service will be described. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that an operation of providing a phone directory service according to the present invention is not limited to a specific system configuration and various changes may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

A phone directory service for businesses i.e. a yellow page service provides results based on a keyword for a search or search keyword input by the user. The user inputs a search keyword using a user terminal i.e. a mobile terminal such as a smart phone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or a camera phone accessible to an internet search site and a user terminal transfers an input search keyword to a search entity e.g. a yellow page server on a data network through a mobile communication network such as 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Wireless Broadband Internet WiBro or a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi . A search entity inquires another server such as a business DataBase DB of information on businesses and provides the user terminal with search results corresponding to a search keyword input by the user.

Referring to in step the user terminal transfers a yellow page search request message YellowPageSearchReq including a search keyword input by the user to a yellow page provider server through a network e.g. a mobile communication network etc. which he or she has accessed. In step the search keyword is included in a search request message SearchReq and is transferred from the yellow page provider server to a search entity e.g. a yellow page server . The search entity may access the business DB and other servers to provide a search function desired by the user. In step the search entity includes the search keyword in a business information request message BusinessInfoReq and transfers the business information request message to the business DB. The business DB stores information on businesses which have allowed a search for their phone numbers i.e. business names phone numbers addresses brief introductions etc. and may be configured with a separate server be constructed as an internal DB in the search entity or be provided in the same network as that of the search entity.

In step the business DB transfers a business information response message BusinessInfoResp including a business list corresponding to the search keyword to the search entity. The business list contains information regarding the businesses corresponding to the search keyword. For example when the search keyword is Chinese restaurant names and phone numbers of the Chinese restaurants stored in the business DB and their addresses and brief introductions may be contained in the business list. In step the business list is included in a search response message SearchResp and is provided to the yellow page provider server and in step the yellow page provider server includes the business list in a yellow page search response message YellowPageSearchResp and provides the yellow page search response message to the user terminal.

Since the above mentioned search procedure provides a search result corresponding to a search keyword without considering a personality or preference of the user advertising effects are not fully utilized. In particular despite that the user often intends to search for a business close to a location where he or she is currently located the business DB simply provides a list containing all businesses corresponding to the search keyword. Accordingly the user may have trouble in selecting a desired business.

Referring to in step a user terminal transfers a yellow page search request message YellowPageSearchReq including a search keyword input by the user and a subscriber IDentifier ID of the user terminal to a yellow page provider server through a network e.g. mobile communication network accessed by the user terminal itself. The subscriber identifier is used to identify the user terminal in the mobile communication network and may include at least one of a Mobile Station International Integrated Service Digital Network ISDN MSISDN number a Mobile Identifying Number MIN an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI etc.

In step the subscriber identifier and the search keyword are included in a search request message SearchReq and are transferred from the yellow page provider server to a search entity e.g. a yellow page server . In step the search entity includes the subscriber identifier into a user location request message UserLocationReq and transmits the user location request message including the subscriber identifier to a location information storage e.g. a location server . The location information storage identifies locations of mobile communication subscribers i.e. users registered in the mobile communication network to help receive a call and manages various parameters information regarding the subscribers to control various added services such as prohibition of call origination termination. An example of the location information storage may be a home location register. For the interworking with the location information storage the search entity may operate in the same provider network as that of the location information storage or may mutually share communication protocols according to a preset manner. In step the location information storage searches for a currently registered location e.g. a cell ID or a latitude longitude of the user terminal corresponding to the subscriber identifier and sends in response a user location response message UserLocationResp including the subscriber identifier and the searched location e.g. a latitude and a longitude to the search entity. Here the user location response message UserLocationResp may additionally indicate a precision of the location. Here the precision of the location refers to an error degree in the latitude and longitude of the location.

In step the search entity includes the search keyword together with the subscriber identifier the location and a radius about the location in a business information request message BusinessInfoReq and transfers the business information request message to the business DB. The radius may be optionally included. The radius indicates which businesses pertaining to a region within a certain range from the location of the subscriber will be searched for in the yellow page service and may be determined in the search entity according to a service precision or input by the user through the user terminal. The business DB stores information i.e. business names phone numbers addresses brief introductions of the businesses which have allowed a search for their phone numbers etc. and may be configured with a separate server be constructed as an internal DB in the search entity or be provided in the same network as that of the search entity.

In step the business DB transfers a business information response message BusinessInfoResp including a business list corresponding to the search keyword to the search entity. The business list corresponds to the search keyword and contains information regarding businesses located within the range of the radius about the location of the subscriber. To achieve this the business DB additionally stores rough locations i.e. districts or latitudes longitudes of the businesses which have allowed a search for them together with information regarding the businesses. For example when the search keyword is Chinese restaurant names and phone numbers of the Chinese restaurants stored in the business DB and their addresses and brief introductions may be additionally contained in the business list. In step the business list is included in a search response message SearchResp and is provided to the yellow page provider server and in step the yellow page provider server includes the business list in a yellow page search response message YellowPageSearchResp and provides the yellow page search response message to the user terminal. Then the user can acquire phone numbers of the businesses close to a region where the user is currently located through interworking of the search entity with the mobile communication network without having to separately input a geographical location to be searched for.

Although an operation of inquiring the location information storage of the mobile communication network of the location of the user terminal by the search entity has been illustrated and described when the user terminal is equipped with a Global Positioning System GPS therein the user terminal can inform its current location with the search keyword and its current location e.g. latitude longitude may be included in the yellow page search request message.

Although the procedure of provides more convenience for the user than that provided by the procedure of by considering a current location of the user since the businesses close to the current location of the user are listed it is difficult to provide a search result according to personalities of users.

Referring to the system for providing a yellow page service includes a user terminal configured to request a yellow page service a yellow page provider server a search entity a subscriber information storage a location information storage a business DB and a communication pattern manager . The elements other than the user terminal may be realized as individual servers configured with separate entities or be configured as internal entities operating in one network. For example the communication pattern manager the location information storage and the subscriber information storage may operate in the same provider network managing a mobile communication network to which the user terminal is subscribed. Also at least one of the search entity the business DB and the yellow page provider server may operate in the same provider network according to an implementation of the provider network. As an alternative exemplary embodiment at least two or more of the elements may be integrated as one entity. For example the yellow page provider server may be integrated with the search entity according to an implementation of the provider network and the subscriber location storage and the location information storage may be realized with as a Home Location Register HLR .

The subscriber information storage provides subscriber information i.e. ages and genders in response to a request of the search entity . The communication pattern manager interworks with a switching center of the mobile communication network. The communication pattern manager stores statistical information of communications with the businesses stored in the business DB e.g. the number of calls in various conditions according to genders age groups call time ranges of calling parties and may additionally have a function of arranging the business list based on a priority algorithm according to a request of the search entity . In more detail the communication pattern manager stores statistical information i.e. a communication pattern regarding ages and genders and call times of the subscribers who have requested calls from the businesses stored in the business DB and arranges the business list based on the stored statistical information. A detailed search procedure according to a mutual operation between the illustrated elements will be described later with reference to .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a similar subscriber group having subscriber information similar to that of the user who has requested a search is regarded to have a similar personality taste to that of the user and a business list which has been endowed with a priority is provided to the user according to a search result regarding the businesses in the similar subscriber group. The similar subscriber group is determined according to subscriber information which has registered in a mobile communication network for the user according to predetermined criteria and for example may include subscribers whose gender and age group are the same of those of the user.

Referring to before a search request of the user the communication pattern manager in step continues to store and manage statistical information such as genders ages call times i.e. communication pattern of calling parties who have requested communications from the businesses registered in a business DB through interworking with an exchange of a mobile communication network.

In step the user terminal transfers a yellow page search request message YellowPageSearchReq including a search keyword input by the user and a subscriber identifier of a user terminal to a yellow page provider server through a network e.g. mobile communication network accessed by the user. The subscriber identifier is used to identify the user terminal in the mobile communication network and for example may include MSISDN MIN IMEI ICCID and IMSI.

In step the subscriber identifier and the search keyword are included in a search request message SearchReq and are transferred from the yellow page provider server to a search entity e.g. yellow page server . In step the search entity includes the subscriber identifier in a user information request message UserInfoReq and transmits the user information request message to a subscriber information storage e.g. a subscriber information server . The subscriber information storage manages various subscriber parameters information regarding the mobile communication subscribers i.e. users to control various added services such as prohibition of origination reception of calls. The subscriber information storage may be realized with the location information storage and an example of the subscriber information storage may be a home location register. For interworking with the subscriber information storage the search entity may operate in the same provider network as that of the location information storage or mutually shares communication protocols according to a preset manner. In step the subscriber information storage searches for user information specifically an age and a gender of the user terminal corresponding to the subscriber identifier and sends in response a user information response message UserInfoResp including the subscriber identifier and the found user information to the search entity.

In step the search entity includes the subscriber identifier in a user location request message UserLocationReq and transmits the user location request message to a location information storage e.g. a location server such as a home location register . In step the location information storage sends in response a user location response message UserLocationResp including a currently registered location e.g. a cell ID or a latitude and a longitude of the user terminal to the search entity. Here the user location response message UserLocationResp may additionally indicate a precision of the location.

In step the search entity includes the search keyword together with the subscriber identifier the location and a radius about the location in a business information request message BusinessInfoReq and transfers them to the business DB. The radius may be optionally included. The radius indicates which businesses pertaining to a region within a certain range from the location of the subscriber will be searched for in the yellow page service and may be determined in the search entity according to a service precision or input by the user through the user terminal. The business DB stores information i.e. business names phone numbers addresses brief introductions of the businesses which have allowed a search for their phone numbers etc.

In step the business DB transmits a business information response message BusinessInfoResp including a business list identifying businesses corresponding to the search keyword to the search entity. The business list corresponds to the search keyword and contains information e.g. business names phone numbers latitudes and longitudes regarding businesses located within the range of the radius about the location of the subscriber.

Once the search for the user information the location information and the business list is completed through the above mentioned processes the search entity performs an operation of giving a priority to the businesses identified in the business list considering a preference of the user. The operation of giving a priority includes an operation of arranging in detail the business list according to a communication pattern of the similar subscriber group of the user and may be performed by the search entity or the communication pattern manager according to an implementation of the designer. Steps to describe an exemplary embodiment of the present invention and relate to an operation of giving a priority by the communication pattern manager.

In step the search entity transfers a pattern request message PatternReq including the subscriber identifier a gender an age a search time and the business list to the communication pattern manager. The search time refers to a time point when a search is requested and for example may indicate a time point between a time point when the user terminal requested a search and a time point when the search entity transmitted the pattern request message. In step the communication pattern manager arranges businesses in the business list based on genders age groups and search time ranges included in the pattern request message. In more detail the communication pattern manager arranges the businesses in an order of how often a similar subscriber group having the same gender and age group as the requested gender and age group has performed the search in a time range including the search time. The similar age group means a predetermined range centered at age A of the user such as twenties thirties forties and fifties according to a predetermined criteria or a range from A n to A n n is a predetermined positive integer . The time ranges including the search time may be determined as time ranges including the search time among a plurality of time ranges such as the morning the afternoon and the night according to a criteria. In step the communication pattern manager includes the business list to which a priority has been given and includes the subscriber identifier and the arranged businesses in a pattern response message PatternResp and transmits the pattern response message to the search entity.

In step the business list to which the priority has been given is included in a search response message SearchResp and is provided to the yellow page provider server and in step the yellow page provider server includes the business list in a yellow page search response message YellowPageSearchResp and provides the yellow page search response message to the user terminal. Then the user can acquire the phone numbers of the businesses reflecting the preference of the similar subscriber group without inputting additional information.

Steps to describe an operation of receiving a business list to which a priority has been given by the communication pattern manager in the search entity. In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention after inquiring and receiving communication pattern information regarding a similar subscriber group of the user from the communication pattern manager the search entity may directly give a priority to the businesses list based on the communication pattern information. To achieve this the search entity transmits an age a gender a location e.g. latitude longitude and a search time of the user to the communication pattern manager and receives a business list regarding the top N N is a natural number businesses frequently searched by the similar subscriber group of the user and to which a priority has not been given. Then the search entity arranges the business list to which a priority has not given according to a predetermined criteria and provides the arranged business list as a search result to the user terminal through the yellow page provider server.

Referring to in step a search request is received from a user terminal to a search entity. The search request includes a search keyword input by the user and a subscriber identifier of the user terminal. In step the search entity inquires of and acquires subscriber information e.g. gender and age of the user terminal from a subscriber information storage based on the subscriber identifier. Similarly in step the search entity inquires of and acquires location information e.g. latitude longitude of the user terminal from a location information storage based on the subscriber identifier. Here it is noted that steps and are sequentially performed or are performed independently or in parallel.

In step the search entity requests and acquires a business list based on the search keyword and the location information from a business DB. In step the search entity arranges the business list according to a communication pattern of a similar subscriber group of the user terminal based on the subscriber information the search time and the location information. In more detail the business list is sequentially arranged in the order of frequencies in an order of how often the subscribers of a similar subscriber group have communicated with the businesses included in the business list and the businesses other than the top ranking businesses may be removed from the business list. In step the arranged business list is provided to the user terminal which has generated the search request.

Referring to a communication pattern manager interworks with a switching center of a mobile communication network. Whenever calls for registered businesses are originated the communication pattern manager receives call information including calling numbers and called numbers for the calls from a switching center and counts of the number of calls for each business according to a gender an age group and a call origination time of the subscriber. To achieve this the switching center and the communication pattern manager can receive information on the businesses which have allowed searches for their phone numbers from the business DB . For example when a call for businesses registered in the business DB is originated the switching center provides information of the call to the communication pattern manager . As an alternative example when the communication pattern manager determines that the call is a call received by a business registered in the business DB with reference to the call information received from the switching center the communication pattern manager counts the corresponding call.

Referring to in step when a call related to a business which has allowed searches for its phone number e.g. a call transmitted to the business is originated the communication pattern manager receives call information regarding the call from a switching center. In step the communication pattern manager identifies a calling number and a called number contained in the call information and in step the communication pattern manager identifies subscriber information of a calling subscriber corresponding to the calling number i.e. an age a gender and a call origination time. In step the communication pattern manager increases the counts for the age the gender and the call origination time for the business by one respectively.

Referring to in step the communication pattern manager receives a business list regarding an age a gender a search time and a search keyword of the user terminal which intends to search for a business from the search entity. As mentioned above the business list includes businesses which have been searched for with reference to a current location of the user terminal. Then in step the communication pattern manager primarily arranges the businesses in the business list according to a communication pattern of the subscribers who have the same gender as the subscriber of the user terminal. For example when a subscriber of a user terminal is a male the businesses in the business list are arranged in ascending order based on the call counts for male subscribers.

In step the primarily arranged business list is secondarily arranged according to the communication pattern of the subscribers having the same age group as the subscriber of the user terminal. For example when the subscriber of the user terminal is in his or her twenties the businesses of the primarily arranged business list are arranged in ascending order based on the call counts for the subscribers in their twenties. In step the secondarily arranged business list is arranged thirdly according to a time when the user terminal requested a search. For example when the search time pertains to a lunch time the businesses of the secondarily arranged business list are arranged in ascending order based on the call counts for lunch time.

Referring to in step the communication pattern manager receives a business list regarding an age a gender a search time and a search keyword of the user of a user terminal who intends to search a business from the search entity. In step the communication pattern manager compares and arranges call count values which are sent to businesses of the business list by subscribers having the same gender and age group as those of the subscriber of the user terminal having the same search time. In step the communication pattern manager checks whether businesses exist in the arranged business list whose call count values are identical to each other and if no such business exists the operation proceeds to step . On the other hand if businesses exist whose call count value are identical to each other they are arranged based on the call count value for gender in step .

In step the communication pattern manager checks whether businesses exist in the arranged business list whose call count values for gender are identical to each other and if no such business exists the operation proceeds to step . On the other hand if businesses exist whose call count value for gender are identical to each other they are arranged based on the call count value for age group in step . In step the communication pattern manager determines if businesses having an identical call count value for an age group that exists in the arranged business list. When such businesses do not exist in the arranged business list the communication pattern manager proceeds to step . On the other hand if businesses exist whose call count value for an age group are identical to each other they are arranged based on the call count value for time ranges in step .

In step the communication pattern manager forwards the business list arranged in one of steps and as a search result to the search entity.

Hereinafter an operation of giving priorities to the businesses according to the communication pattern will be described with an example. Tables 1 to 3 exemplify communication patterns accumulated by the communication pattern manager.

In the following example it is assumed that a search keyword is chicken store the gender of the user of a user terminal who requested a search is man his age group is twenties and the search time is evening .

The stored communication patterns of the businesses related to the search keyword i.e. business A B and C are as in Tables 1 to 3 and the priorities based on the stored communication patterns are as follows.

If the call count values of business A and business B are identical to each other as exemplified business B and business A are arranged according to the priorities set by a yellow page provider server. As illustrated in the flowcharts of when the set priorities are given in the order of gender age group and time since a call count value of business B for male is 852 and a call count value of business A for male is 4057 the final priorities shown to the user is as follows.

As a modified example if their call count values for Male are identical to each other the businesses are arranged again according to the call count value for twenties.

Referring to the user of a user terminal is Cheolsoo Kim who is located on Eulji Ro and is a male in his twenties and implements a smart yellow page which is an application for a yellow page service by manipulating the user terminal . The subscriber inputs a desired search keyword e.g. Chinese restaurant through a search window of the smart yellow page . The search keyword and the subscriber ID of the user terminal are transferred to a search system providing a yellow page service through a search request . The search system may be configured as illustrated in as an example. The search system acquires at least one of subscriber information location information of the user terminal and a communication pattern of a group of similar subscribers based on the search keyword and the subscriber ID contained in the search request and determines a business list including nearby Chinese restaurants preferred by the user based on the acquired information. The business list is provided to the user terminal through a search response and the user terminal displays the names of the nearby Chinese restaurants included in the business list through a search result screen of the smart yellow page . Then the business list may further include additional information on local map images together with the names and phone numbers of the found businesses. The smart yellow page may display detailed information on the businesses selected by the user among the Chinese restaurants displayed on the screen e.g. a neighbor map on the same screen.

If the businesses acquired through the yellow page service are displayed on the screen of the user terminal the user selects a name of a desired business among the businesses displayed on the screen through manipulation of a keyboard or a touch input to allow the user terminal to automatically attempt connection of a call to the selected business.

Referring to the user terminal displays detailed information e.g. a local map of a Chinese Restaurant Hyeon gyoung which is a business selected by the user among the search results through a screen of a smart yellow page which is an application for a yellow page service. In addition a dial icon through which the user can make a call to the selected business is displayed together on the screen. If the user selects the dial icon through manipulation of a keypad or a touch input the user terminal automatically attempts connection of a call to a phone number of the selected business .

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention when the selected business has subscribed to an interactive call processing service the user may select in the case that the selected business is a restaurant at least one desired food through the smart yellow page screen while performing a communication with the selected business through the user terminal and may be provided with an image of the selected food or information of a food recommended by the selected business . To achieve this the user terminal connects to an interactive call processing system in a network while connecting a call to the selected business. The interactive call processing system may be directly managed by the corresponding business or may be managed by a specialist management business receives and analyzes a request of the user terminal connecting a call to the corresponding business and provides information provided by the business corresponding to the request of the user to the user terminal .

For example if the user terminal establishes a call connection with a desired business and requests the business to prepare for an order of a food the interactive call processing system provides a list of all foods or recommended foods provided by the business during the call connection. The list may include a brief introduction of each food together with an image of the food. In addition the user may see the food image displayed on the screen and may transmit an inquiry on a corresponding food to the interactive call processing system . In response the interactive call processing system provides a reply of the business to the inquiry through a screen of the user terminal .

Referring to a user terminal displays a search result through a screen of a smart yellow page which is an application for a yellow page service and displays if a call is connected to a business selected by the user among the search result information e.g. a food image provided by a business according to a request of a user or a designation of the business during call connection. If the user orders a desired food through the food image the smart yellow page provides details of the order on the display during connection of a call to allow the user to confirm selections of the user. If the user confirms the order the smart yellow page transmits a payment request to a fee charging system in a network . The fee charging system may operate in a mobile communication network to which the user terminal has subscribed or be managed by a separate fee charging business. If the fee charging system authenticates the user terminal and confirms a separately defined payment means e.g. communication fee or a credit card payment authentication is transmitted from the fee charging system to the user terminal . The smart yellow page which is being executed in the user terminal displays details of the payment according to the payment authentication on the screen. Thereafter if no additional request of the user exists the call connection may be automatically ended. Accordingly the user can process a payment request and confirmation of the authentication details while maintaining connection of a call.

According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention even if a user who desires to search for a phone number does not make an explicit request a search result can be arranged and provided reflecting a preference of a person based on information on a communication pattern provided by a communication provider. Accordingly information on businesses can be provided to the user properly while securing convenience of searching for the user. Furthermore the user can be provided with a list of businesses preferred by a group of similar subscribers having the same age group and gender as those of the user even through a simple search procedure identical to a search procedure of the related art.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

