---

title: Method of queuing signals
abstract: Example methods, apparatuses, and/or articles of manufacture are disclosed that may be implemented, in whole or in part, using one or more computing devices to implement a queuing system with an adjustable scalability/reliability level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09608943&OS=09608943&RS=09608943
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09608943
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
Transmission and or reception of signals via the Internet between users and computing devices occur at an ever increasing rate. Reception and or transmission of signals may come in any of many forms such as for example email instant messages tweets and or social media messages e.g. posts to name but a few examples. Because among other things communicating devices and or intermediate devices may not operate at correspondingly similar speeds and or may not be in concurrent communication for example transmitted signals may be queued for later retrieval and or transmission. Likewise as scale increases so does an associated queue. Reliability e.g. consistency may likewise be a factor as scale increase. For instance even in a system with 99.999 reliability for a large number of overall transmissions potential impact in terms of total number of transmissions lost may still be significant. Examples of relatively small scale commercial systems such as database management systems DBMS for example with good reliability exist. However as scale increases an ability to handle an increasing scale and reliability such as without a substantial degradation in reliability may present a challenge.

Reference is made in the following detailed description to accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals may designate like parts throughout to indicate corresponding and or analogous components. It will be appreciated that components illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale such as for simplicity and or clarity of illustration. For example dimensions of some components may be exaggerated relative to other components. Further it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized. Furthermore structural and or other changes may be made without departing from claimed subject matter. It should also be noted that directions and or references for example up down top bottom and so on may be used to facilitate discussion of drawings and or are not intended to restrict application of claimed subject matter. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken to limit claimed subject matter and or equivalents.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses and or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

With advances in technology it has become more typical to employ distributed computing approaches in which one or more computational tasks may be divided among computing devices including one or more clients and one or more servers via a computing and or communications network. A network may comprise two or more network devices and or may couple network devices so that signal communications such as in the form of signal packets for example may be exchanged such as between a server and a client device and or other types of devices including between wireless devices coupled via a wireless network for example. A network may be very large such as comprising thousands of nodes millions of nodes billions of nodes or more as examples.

In this context the term network device refers to any device capable of communicating via and or as part of a network and may comprise a computing device. While network devices may be capable of sending and or receiving signals e.g. signal packets such as via a wired and or wireless network they may also be capable of performing arithmetic and or logic operations processing and or storing signals such as in memory as physical memory states and or may for example operate as a server in various embodiments. Network devices capable of operating as a server or otherwise may include as examples dedicated rack mounted servers desktop computers laptop computers set top boxes tablets netbooks smart phones integrated devices combining two or more features of the foregoing devices the like and or any combination thereof. Signal packets for example may be exchanged such as between a server and a client device and or other types of network devices including between wireless devices coupled via a wireless network for example. It is noted that the terms server server device server computing device server computing platform and or similar terms are used interchangeably. Similarly the terms client client device client computing device client computing platform and or similar terms are also used interchangeably. While in some instances for ease of description these terms may be used in the singular such as by referring to a client device or a server device the description is intended to encompass one or more client devices and or one or more server devices as appropriate. Along similar lines references to a database are understood to mean one or more databases and or portions thereof as appropriate.

It should be understood that for ease of description a network device also referred to as a networking device may be embodied and or described in terms of a computing device. However it should further be understood that this description should in no way be construed that claimed subject matter is limited to one embodiment such as a computing device or a network device and instead may be embodied as a variety of devices and or combinations thereof including for example one or more illustrative examples.

A network may also include now known and or to be later developed arrangements derivatives and or improvements including for example past present and or future mass storage such as network attached storage NAS a storage area network SAN and or other forms of computer and or machine readable media for example. A network may include the Internet one or more local area networks LANs one or more wide area networks WANs wire line type connections wireless type connections other connections and or any combination thereof. Thus a network may be worldwide in scope and or extent. Likewise sub networks such as may employ differing architectures and or may be compliant and or compatible with differing protocols such as computing and or communication protocols e.g. network protocols may interoperate within a larger network. In this context the term sub network refers to a portion and or part of a network. Various types of devices such as network devices and or computing devices may be made available so that device interoperability is enabled and or in at least some instances may be transparent to the devices. In this context the term transparent refers to devices such as network devices and or computing devices communicating via a network in which the devices are able to communicate via intermediate devices but without the communicating devices necessarily specifying one or more intermediate devices and or may include communicating as if intermediate devices are not necessarily involved in communication transmissions. For example a router may provide a link and or connection between otherwise separate and or independent LANs.

In this context a private network refers to a particular limited set of network devices able to communicate with other network devices in the particular limited set such as via signal packet transmissions for example without needing to re rout and or redirect such network communications. A private network may comprise a stand alone network however a private network may also comprise a subset of a larger network such as for example without limitation the Internet. Thus for example a private network in the cloud may refer to a private network that comprises a subset of the Internet for example. Although signal packet transmissions may employ intermediate devices to exchange signal packet transmissions those intermediate devices may not necessarily be included in the private network by not being a source or destination for one or more signal packet transmissions for example. It is understood in this context that a private network may provide outgoing network communications to devices not in the private network but such devices outside the private network may not direct inbound network communications to devices included in the private network.

The Internet refers to a decentralized global network of interoperable networks that comply with the Internet Protocol IP . It is noted that there are several versions of the Internet Protocol. Here the term Internet Protocol or IP is intended to refer to any version now known and or later developed. The Internet includes local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wireless networks and or long haul public networks that for example may allow signal packets to be communicated between LANs. The term world wide web WWW and or similar terms may also be used although it refers to a sub portion of the Internet that complies with the Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTP. It is noted that there are several versions of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol. Here the term Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTP is intended to refer to any version now known and or later developed. It is likewise noted that in various places in this document substitution of the term Internet with the term world wide web may be made without a significant departure in meaning and may therefore not be inappropriate in that the statement would remain correct with such a substitution.

Signal packets also referred to as signal packet transmissions may be communicated between nodes of a network where a node may comprise one or more network devices and or one or more computing devices for example. As an illustrative example but without limitation a node may comprise one or more sites employing a local network address. Likewise a device such as a network device and or a computing device may be associated with that node. A signal packet may for example be communicated via a communication channel and or a communication path comprising the Internet from a site via an access node coupled to the Internet. Likewise a signal packet may be forwarded via network nodes to a target site coupled to a local network for example. A signal packet communicated via the Internet for example may be routed via a path comprising one or more gateways servers etc. that may for example route a signal packet in accordance with a target address and availability of a network path of network nodes to a target address. Although the Internet comprises a network of interoperable networks not all of those interoperable networks are necessarily available or accessible to the public.

Although physically connecting a network via a hardware bridge is done a hardware bridge may not typically include a capability of interoperability via higher levels of a network protocol. A network protocol refers to a set of signaling conventions for computing and or communications between or among devices in a network typically network devices for example devices that substantially comply with the protocol and or that are substantially compatible with the protocol. In this context the term between and or similar terms are understood to include among if appropriate for the particular usage. Likewise in this context the terms compatible with comply with and or similar terms are understood to include substantial compliance and or substantial compatibility.

Typically a network protocol has several layers. These layers may be referred to here as a network stack. Various types of network transmissions may occur across various layers. For example as one moves higher in a network stack additional operations may be available by initiating network transmissions that are compatible and or compliant with a particular network protocol at these higher layers. Therefore for example a hardware bridge may be unable to forward signal packets since it may operate at a layer of a network stack that does not provide that capability. Although higher layers of a network protocol may for example affect device permissions user permissions etc. a hardware bridge for example may typically provide little user control such as for higher layer operations.

A VPN may enable a remote device to communicate via a local network but may also have drawbacks. A router may allow network communications in the form of network transmissions e.g. signal packets for example to occur from a remote device to a VPN server on a local network. A remote device may be authenticated and a VPN server for example may create a special route between a local network and the remote device through an intervening router. However a route may be generated and or also regenerate if the remote device is power cycled for example. Also a VPN typically may affect a single remote device for example in some situations.

Some example methods apparatuses and or articles of manufacture are disclosed herein that may be used in whole or in part to facilitate and or support one or more processes and or operations for queuing signal packets and or groupings thereof such as within a distributed system. One or more signal packets and or groupings thereof may be stored as a physical state in a variety of ways such as using stored electrons in a random access memory for example. Of course this is simply an illustrative example and claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to illustrations. As another example a signal packet may be stored as a physical state in a phase change memory. In this context the term signal packet s may be used to signify signals and or states independent of the particular form of the signals and or states. As previously suggested a distributed system may refer to a system distributed over a network such as a system comprising hardware software and or firmware other than software per se in which particular components of the network such as particular network devices for example communicate and or coordinate communication such via transmission of one or more signal packets to form a distributed system.

For example in the case of a distributed system related to a social network as simply a non limiting illustrative example a plurality of network devices that may be distributed over a larger network for example may transmit and or receive signal packets which may comprise messages such as text images audio video and or other compositions of signals for example. Thus likewise users of those devices may transmit and or receive signal packets which may comprise messages for example. Of course this is merely one example relating to a distributed system and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In general signal packets may be transmitted synchronously asynchronously and or a combination. In one embodiment a given transmission protocol such as for synchronous communications for example may have processing specifications for transmission and or reception such as related to timing for example that may make it more challenging for signal packets to also be scanned and or otherwise analyzed in addition to processing for transmission and or reception such as by a network device included in the distributed system. Whether transmissions are synchronous asynchronous or a combination in another case two or more network devices transmitting and or receiving signal packets e.g. in communication may operate at different speeds. In another embodiment network devices in a distributed system may be coupled to a larger network at non overlapping times. In still another embodiment a network device of a distributed system may crash or otherwise unexpectedly go offline and therefore may not be available to transmit and or receive signal packets.

Typically situations such as those described above as well as others may employ a queue also referred to here as a queuing system or a queuing service so that one or more signal packets may be buffered in a memory such as on a device coupled to the network that includes the distributed system at least until conditions are such that the signal packets may again continue along their transmission path. For example referring to a system embodiment may include one or more client devices such as client devices and one or more server devices such as server device . Furthermore server as illustrated includes a local memory .

Thus for example client may transmit one or more signal packets via network thus operating as a source in this example. Although server may not necessarily be the destination of the signal packets server may comprise an intermediate device before the signal packets arrive at their destination. Thus server may receive the one or more signal packets and store them in for example memory such as local memory .

In one example server may include a database. Although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect in addition to memory a database may in some embodiments at least include software and or firmware to manage content stored within the database such as database indices database procedures and or other operations capable of being executed in conjunction with use of the database. Likewise it is understood that database also refers to content stored within the database however since content stored within a database may change over time at times the term database instance may be employed if appropriate to clarify that a particular database has not changed in terms of underlying structure however content stored within the database may have changed.

Thus in an embodiment server may store received signal packets locally in its database to provide a queuing service at least until conditions are such that the signal packets may continue to be transmitted to their destination. In general in this context a device such as a network device operating as a queue will also include a database for durability and or to manage the contents of the queue.

It is of course noted that the foregoing discussion has been simplified for purposes of illustration. Thus again claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to illustrations. For example server may comprise multiple servers as one example. Likewise server may comprise multiple databases as another example. Similarly signal packets may be stored externally to server in another embodiment. Server may store the one or more signal packets until such time as it may be appropriate dequeue them as implied previously.

For a relatively large network associated with an increase in scale likewise as was mentioned previously scale or size of queues that may be employed may also increase. Reliability e.g. consistency may likewise be a factor as scale increase. For instance even in a system with 99.999 reliability for a large number of overall transmissions potential impact in terms of total number of transmissions lost may still be significant. Likewise as scale increases an ability to handle an increasing scale and reliability such as without a substantial degradation in reliability may present a challenge.

Continuing with this example under appropriate conditions an email such as in the form of one or more signal packets may be dequeued and transmitted via network to a mail server . For purposes of clarity it is noted that is intended to illustrate one network with a distributed system such as one comprising email clients and email servers although of course claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. In one embodiment one or more signal packets received at mail server may also be queued. Likewise again under appropriate conditions signal packets at mail server may be dequeued and transmitted via network to client device . Thus illustrates a computing environment here email messaging capable of facilitating communication e.g. signal packets via use of a queuing service. In this context client comprises a producer of email messages and client comprises a consumer of email messages.

As previously indicated a queue is implemented in connection with a database for reliability purposes. Therefore in the forgoing example typically a DBMS may employ a relational database. Typically reliable DBMS are commercially available. However a disadvantage associated with a relational database particularly if scale were to increase may be a decrease in throughput due at least in part to reliability type constraints imposed by the DBMS. Furthermore databases may offer reliability across multiple updates. Typically in a relational database for technical reasons which may include reliability tables and indices are arranged sequentially in memory in some fashion with a limited number of entry points. Although such an arrangement may support reliability as indicated as scale increases throughput may be less than desired for example. In contrast a column oriented database may employ columns that are separated even across multiple devices and therefore may be more readily scalable for example. They also provide scalability across atomic operations on single updates which may increases throughput while potentially maintaining reliability.

In one embodiment as illustrated in to perhaps address throughput multiple instances of a database may exist and be managed by one or more DBMSs. For example as the number of databases increases so too does the number of points of entry through which signal packets may be received and or transmitted. However likewise such an arrangement also increases complexity for coordination of content between database instances and may also reduce reliability since a greater possibility of a lost or dropped packet may be present in comparison with the previous example. In this context reliability of a queue refers to an error rate and or a number of errors per number of signal packet transactions. Likewise scalability refers to the capability of a queue to increase throughput. As discussed below this may be accomplished in various ways including through addition of nodes for database instances. However as the two previous illustrative examples suggest often as scalability increases likewise reliability may decrease at least approximately.

For example in one embodiment a distributed system may have a limited number of customers producers clients etc. initially accessing the distributed system. However there may be interest in the ability to scale the distributed system as the volume of signal packets within the distributed system increases. In another embodiment a given distributed system may periodically receive relatively large spikes in usage. For instance for distributed systems related to events such as for example taxation insurance renewal student signup and or class selection and or other events that might experience periodic spikes in transmission reception and or storage. The preceding examples are offered to illustrate certain non limiting cases where a queuing system capable of providing adjustable scalability reliability levels may be desirable.

As indicated a desirable feature of an embodiment such as a system in accordance with claimed subject matter may include the ability to adjust scale and or reliability. For example although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect scale in one embodiment may be measured in terms of signal packet throughput. Likewise although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect reliability in one embodiment may be measured in terms of signal packet error rate. for example illustrates an embodiment of a queuing system having an adjustable scalability reliability level. For instance computing environment may comprise a reliable persistent queue RPQ . As used herein a reliable persistent queue refers to any suitable combination of software hardware and or firmware other than software per se related to management and administration of a queuing system in which the queuing system is capable of adjustment of a scalability reliability level such as real time adjustment. As disclosed in more detail below a variety of mechanisms may be employed in a variety of embodiments to adjust scalability reliability level. Thus in this context an RPQ refers a queuing system that includes scalability reliability level adjustment capability.

For example in one embodiment RPQ may be capable of receiving signal packets transmitting signal packets and or replicating and persisting signal packets in a queue among other things. RPQ may comprise one or more network devices and or computing devices for example. As shown in in the embodiment illustrated RPQ comprises a web server a messaging component a distributed system coordination component and one or more database instances such as databases . . . and

In one embodiment RPQ may be distributed across a plurality of server devices not shown . For instance a first group of server devices may comprise web server and message component . A second group of server devices may comprise distributed system coordination component . Likewise databases may be located on a third group of server devices. However the foregoing is merely an illustrative example and claimed subject matter is not limited to such an illustration. For example alternatively components of RPQ may be located on one device.

Turning now to the embodiment illustrated in a signal packet may be transmitted from a client device such as for example client device via network to RPQ . The signal packet may be received by web server and may thereafter be replicated to database instances for queuing. Distributed system coordination component may manage the replication of the signal packet and or the synchronization of database instances 

In one embodiment a message may be represented by one or more signal packets. The one or more signal packets may be queued and replicated on databases however a message size threshold may for example affect queuing and replication. For example in an embodiment rather than replicating the one or more signal packets on all databases depending at least in part on message size signal packets may be replicated and may be stored on less than the total number of database instances and the remaining instances may instead include some form of pointer handle or link to a stored version of the one or more signal packets. Thus in one embodiment signal packets received by RPQ may be evaluated to determine whether to replicate or to use a pointer. Thus for a given signal packet for example in an embodiment the signal packet or the relevant pointer may be replicated and persisted to database instances 

An embodiment operating as described for example may have advantages. For example a reduction in copying from one sub system e.g. database instance to another may for example provide extra time for processing and or analysis. Furthermore an embodiment as described does not have a signal point of failure so to speak. That is in this example signal packets have been replicated to database instances so that failure of a single node for example or even multiple nodes does not result in loss of signal packets. Furthermore in the case of failure recovery and failure analysis may be possible.

Furthermore as previously discussed essentially in real time if desired a message size threshold be altered to in effect adjust a scalability reliability level. For example assume a message threshold size in an embodiment initially comprises 2 Kb for example so that messages 2 Kb or below are copied across database instances but above 2 Kb instead as discussed some database instances may include some form of pointer handle or link to a stored version of the one or more signal packets. If however greater throughput is desired a message threshold size may for example be reduced to 1 Kb. As a result throughput should be capable of increasing thus raising scalability as described however likewise reliability may decrease for messages above 1 Kb in comparison with reliability before message size threshold adjustment. Likewise for messages having a size above a message size threshold for example a scalability reliability level may likewise be adjusted in an embodiment in essentially real time by modifying the ratio of database instances storing signal packets and database instances instead providing some form of pointer handle or link to a stored version of the one or more signal packets. Likewise in some embodiments if desired nodes may be added or removed to adjust the number of database instances.

Consistent with the foregoing description in an embodiment for example a determination may be made that adjusting a scalability reliability level of the queuing system in real time may be desirable. For example system measurements of throughput and or other system parameters may be collected in an embodiment and particular values may trigger system actions. Actions may include altering settings for RPQ for example. For example to the extent that a determination is made that a queuing system should tend towards greater throughput a scalability reliability level may be adjusted by among other things altering a size threshold related to replicating signal packets and or altering a number of database nodes in the queuing system as previously discussed to name but a few examples.

In one embodiment again as alluded to previously RPQ may include a real time adjustment capability. For instance in one case a threshold related to message size for copying rather than merely copying a pointer may be adjusted and thereby adjust scalability reliability level. By way of non limiting example in one embodiment a threshold related to message size may be set at 1K for example. As suggested changing message size threshold in this example so that more signal packets are copied into the queue may lead to greater reliability. Alternatively changing message size threshold so that fewer of the signal packets are copied into the queue may lead to greater scalability.

In this example web server may comprise any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware capable of facilitating a method of communication between computing devices on a network such as for example network which might be the Internet in one embodiment. For instance in one embodiment web server may be capable of receiving signal packets comprising various forms of content such as emails instant messages etc. to name a few examples.

In one implementation web server may be capable of taking advantage of available application programming interfaces APIs associated with queuing such as for signal packets for example. In particular these APIs are known as Insert Peek and Delete and provide basic operations in connection with a queue. Thus in one example an Insert call may be operable to insert content into a queue such as in this example an RPQ. Likewise in one embodiment a Peek call may return content from a queue without removing it. Likewise a Delete call may delete content from a queue. Thus a Peek call may be followed by a Delete call in an embodiment. However in another embodiment content that is peeked may not be given to another consumer for a given period of time e.g. time to live TTL . After TTL has expired and if the consumer does not employ a Delete call the content may be made available to the next consumer These APIs are known in the art and shall not be described in any further detail.

A distributed system coordination component such as may typically be employed in systems that are distributed across a network e.g. a distributed system . Distributed system coordination component for example may be capable of implementing naming conventions managing configuration of a distributed system and handling synchronization. In one embodiment distributed system coordination component may reside across multiple computing devices in one embodiment. Likewise in one embodiment a given RPQ may comprise a plurality of distributed system coordination components typically an odd number such as three for implementation of quorum determinations. By way of example in one embodiment distributed system service component may comprise a version of an Apache Zookeeper. Of course the claimed subject matter is not restricted to the foregoing implementations.

Of course system parameters may vary with a variety of factors such as amount of memory type of memory number of nodes etc. Therefore claimed subject matter is not limited to particular thresholds throughput error rates etc. However experimentally a 16 node cluster with a node having 8 GB of random access memory 8 cores and 8 disks was tested and up to 8 nodes was able to scale linearly from 22 k puts per second to 45 k puts per section with a message threshold size of 1 K.

Although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect in an implementation such as the implementation illustrated in for example additional features of a queuing system in accordance with claimed subject matter may include aspects of queuing semantics and or starvation avoidance. In particular rather than queuing semantics that employ strict ordering such as first in first out FIFO which is an example of strict ordering instead in an embodiment such as RPQ consumption make take place without employing strict ordering. Instead an approach may be employed in which content may be consumed within a particular time of production although in an embodiment the particular time may be adjustable for example. Thus using email as an example a second email produced after a first email may be delivered to its destination before the first email is delivered to its destination however the first email shall be delivered to its destination within a particular time after being produced.

Although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect in an implementation such as the implementation illustrated in for example another feature of semantics is referred to in this context as at least once semantics. In one example implementation of at least once semantics again using email as an example an email contained in an embodiment of an RPQ shall be consumed at least once before being deleted from the queue. One advantage of at least once semantics for example may be a situation in which for example during consumption a failure occurs such as a failure of the consuming device such as an intermediate networking device for example. Without at least once semantics being implemented if a failure occurs during consumption in this email example the email may be lost without an ability to be recovered. However with at least once semantics being implemented the email remains recoverable from the RPQ for example and may be consumed by another intermediate networking device for example.

Although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect in an implementation such as the implementation illustrated in for example another feature is referred to in this context as starvation avoidance. This may arise in a situation in which all or nearly all communications again such as email as a non limiting example are high priority particular in embodiments without a strict FIFO queuing semantic. Thus by way of example in an embodiment RPQ may be capable of periodically examining time stamps of low priority messages and may determine whether a time threshold which may be adjustable in an embodiment has been exceeded. If so the particular message identified may be moved to a high priority status. In an embodiment in which high priority message are consumed before low priority messages for example risk of not consuming low priority messages is reduced.

In one embodiment one or more database instances may run on top of a Hadoop Distributed File System HDFS which may for example comprise a master server capable of monitoring all region server instances in the cluster of database instances and may also comprise a region server instance. As such database instances as an example may also comprise Hbase instances may also run on top of a HDFS and or may also comprise a region server instance. While the preceding refers to components related to Apache s Hadoop project this is done merely as another illustration and is not intended to limit claimed subject matter to a Hadoop framework for example.

Processor may be representative of one or more circuits such as digital circuits to perform at least a portion of a computing procedure or process. By way of example but not limitation processor may comprise one or more processors such as controllers microprocessors microcontrollers application specific integrated circuits digital signal processors programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays and the like or any combination thereof. In implementations processor may perform signal processing to manipulate signals or states and or to construct signals or states for example.

Memory may be representative of any storage mechanism. Memory may comprise for example primary memory and secondary memory additional memory circuits mechanisms or combinations thereof may be used. Memory may comprise for example random access memory read only memory or one or more data storage devices or systems such as for example a disk drive an optical disc drive a tape drive a solid state memory drive just to name a few examples. Memory may be utilized to store a program. Memory may also comprise a memory controller for accessing computer readable medium that may carry and or make accessible content code and or instructions for example executable by processor or some other controller or processor capable of executing instructions for example.

Under the direction of processor memory such as memory cells storing physical states representing for example a program may be executed by processor and generated signals may be transmitted via the Internet for example. Processor may also receive digitally encoded signals from client .

Network may comprise one or more network communication links processes services applications and or resources to support exchanging communication signals between a client such as and computing platform which may for example comprise one or more servers not shown . By way of example but not limitation network may comprise wireless and or wired communication links telephone or telecommunications systems Wi Fi networks Wi MAX networks the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or any combinations thereof.

The term computing platform as used herein refers to a system and or a device such as a computing device that includes a capability to process e.g. perform computations and or store data in the form of signals and or states. Thus a computing platform in this context may comprise hardware software firmware or any combination thereof other than software per se . Computing platform as depicted in is merely one such example and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited to this particular example. For one or more embodiments a computing platform may comprise any of a wide range of digital electronic devices including but not limited to personal desktop or notebook computers high definition televisions digital versatile disc DVD players and or recorders game consoles satellite television receivers cellular telephones personal digital assistants mobile audio and or video playback and or recording devices or any combination of the above. Further unless specifically stated otherwise a process as described herein with reference to flow diagrams and or otherwise may also be executed and or affected in whole or in part by a computing platform.

Memory may store cookies relating to one or more users and may also comprise a computer readable medium that may carry and or make accessible content code and or instructions for example executable by processor or some other controller or processor capable of executing instructions for example. A user may make use of an input device such as a computer mouse stylus track ball keyboard or any other similar device capable of receiving user actions and or motions as input signals. Likewise a user may make use of an output device such as a display a printer etc. or any other device capable of providing signals generating visual or audio stimuli or other similar output stimuli for a user.

Regarding aspects related to a communications or computing network a wireless network may couple client devices with a network. A wireless network may employ stand alone ad hoc networks mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and or the like. A wireless network may further include a system of terminals gateways routers or the like coupled by wireless radio links and or the like which may move freely randomly or organize themselves arbitrarily such that network topology may change at times even rapidly. Wireless network may further employ a plurality of network access technologies including Long Term Evolution LTE WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh 2nd 3rd or 4th generation 2G 3G or 4G cellular technology other technologies and or the like. Network access technologies may enable wide area coverage for devices such as client devices with varying degrees of mobility for example.

A network may enable radio frequency or other wireless type communications via a network access technology such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Bluetooth 802.11b g n or other or the like. A wireless network may include virtually any type of now known or to be developed wireless communication mechanism by which signals may be communicated between devices such as a client device such as a computing device and or a network device between or within a network or the like.

Communications between a computing device and or a network device and a wireless network may be in accordance with known or to be developed cellular telephone communication network protocols including for example global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rate for GSM evolution EDGE and worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX . A computing device and or a networking device may also have a subscriber identity module SIM card which for example may comprise a detachable smart card that is able to store subscription information of a user and or is also able to store a contact list of the user. A user may own the computing device and or networking device or may otherwise be a user such as a primary user for example. A computing device may be assigned an address by a wireless or wired telephony network operator or an Internet Service Provider ISP . For example an address may comprise a domestic or international telephone number an Internet Protocol IP address and or one or more other identifiers. In other embodiments a communication network may be embodied as a wired network wireless network or any combinations thereof.

A device such as a computing and or networking device may vary in terms of capabilities and or features. Claimed subject matter is intended to cover a wide range of potential variations. For example a device may include a numeric keypad or other display of limited functionality such as a monochrome liquid crystal display LCD for displaying text for example. In contrast however as another example a web enabled device may include a physical or a virtual keyboard mass storage one or more accelerometers one or more gyroscopes global positioning system GPS or other location identifying type capability and or a display with a higher degree of functionality such as a touch sensitive color 2D or 3D display for example.

A computing and or network device may include or may execute a variety of now known or to be developed operating systems derivatives and or versions thereof including personal computer operating systems such as a Windows iOS Linux a mobile operating system such as iOS Android Windows Mobile and or the like. A computing device and or network device may include or may execute a variety of possible applications such as a client software application enabling communication with other devices such as communicating one or more messages such as via email short message service SMS and or multimedia message service MMS including via a network such as a social network including but not limited to Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Flickr and or Google to provide only a few examples. A computing and or network device may also include or execute a software application to communicate content such as for example textual content multimedia content and or the like. A computing and or network device may also include or execute a software application to perform a variety of possible tasks such as browsing searching playing various forms of content including locally stored or streamed video or games such as but not limited to fantasy sports leagues. The foregoing is provided merely to illustrate that claimed subject matter is intended to include a wide range of possible features or capabilities.

A network may also be extended to another device communicating as part of another network such as via a virtual private network VPN . To support a VPN logical broadcast domain transmissions may be forwarded to the VPN device via another network. For example a software tunnel may be created between a logical broadcast domain and a VPN device. Tunneled traffic may or may not be encrypted and a tunneling protocol may be substantially compliant with and or substantially compatible with any past present or future versions of any of the following protocols IPSec Transport Layer Security Datagram Transport Layer Security Microsoft Point to Point Encryption Microsoft s Secure Socket Tunneling Protocol Multipath Virtual Private Network Secure Shell VPN another existing protocol and or another protocol that may be developed.

A network may communicate via signal packets such as in a network of participating digital communications A logical broadcast domain may be compatible with now known or to be developed past present or future versions of any but not limited to the following network protocol stacks ARCNET AppleTalk ATM Bluetooth DECnet Ethernet FDDI Frame Relay HIPPI IEEE 1394 IEEE 802.11 IEEE 488 Internet Protocol Suite IPX Myrinet OSI Protocol Suite QsNet RS 232 SPX System Network Architecture Token Ring USB and or X.25. A logical broadcast domain may employ for example TCP IP UDP DECnct NetBEUI IPX Appletalk other and or the like. Versions of the Internet Protocol IP may include IPv4 IPv6 other and or the like.

It will of course be understood that although particular embodiments will be described claimed subject matter is not limited in scope to a particular embodiment or implementation. For example one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices for example whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example other than software per se . Likewise although claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. Storage media such as one or more CD ROMs and or disks for example may have stored thereon instructions executable by a system such as a computer system computing platform and or other system such as a computing device and or a network device for example that may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with claimed subject matter being executed such as a previously described embodiment for example although of course claimed subject matter is not limited to previously described embodiments. As one potential example a computing platform may include one or more processing units or processors one or more devices capable of inputting outputting such as a display a keyboard and or a mouse and or one or more memories such as static random access memory dynamic random access memory flash memory and or a hard drive.

Algorithmic descriptions and or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing and or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally is considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations and or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations and or processing involves physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals and or states capable of being stored transferred combined compared processed or otherwise manipulated as electronic signals and or states representing information. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such physical signals and or physical states as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals information and or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the preceding discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining establishing obtaining identifying selecting generating and or the like may refer to actions and or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer and or a similar special purpose computing and or network device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer and or a similar special purpose computing and or network device is capable of processing manipulating and or transforming signals and or states typically represented as physical electronic and or magnetic quantities within memories registers and or other information storage devices transmission devices and or display devices of the special purpose computer and or similar special purpose computing and or network device. In the context of this particular patent application as mentioned the term specific apparatus may include a general purpose computing and or network device such as a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software.

In some circumstances operation of a memory device such as a change in state from a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa for example may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. With particular types of memory devices such a physical transformation may comprise a physical transformation of an article to a different state or thing. For example but without limitation for some types of memory devices a change in state may involve an accumulation and or storage of charge or a release of stored charge. Likewise in other memory devices a change of state may comprise a physical change such as a transformation in magnetic orientation and or a physical change or transformation in molecular structure such as from crystalline to amorphous or vice versa. In still other memory devices a change in physical state may involve quantum mechanical phenomena such as superposition entanglement and or the like which may involve quantum bits qubits for example. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all examples in which a change in state form a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa in a memory device may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. Rather the foregoing is intended as illustrative examples.

In the preceding description various aspects of claimed subject matter have been described. For purposes of explanation systems or configurations were set forth to provide an understanding of claimed subject matter. However claimed subject matter may be practiced without those specific details. In other instances well known features were omitted or simplified so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

While certain features have been illustrated or described herein many modifications substitutions changes or equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications or changes as fall within the true spirit of claimed subject matter.

