---

title: Client, server, management system, and method of the same
abstract: A client includes a registration unit that registers operation control information received from a server and corresponding to a service provided by the server, a calling unit that calls the service in order to cause the server to execute the service when a user selects the service corresponding to the operation control information registered by the user, and an execution unit that, when the user selects the service corresponding to the operation control information registered by the user, executes processing to be executed by the client indicated by the operation control information corresponding to the service, in calling of the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621623&OS=09621623&RS=09621623
owner: CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09621623
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140128
---
The present disclosure relates to a technology for using a service provided by a device on a network.

Currently mechanisms are provided in which a client cooperates with an arbitrary web application without using application programming interfaces APIs dedicated to web applications services provided by various web servers. For example there is a method for loosely coupling an application of the client and a web application by late binding at runtime.

First at a timing when a user requests a client application to conduct a specific operation the client application makes a list of web applications registered in the client application in advance as handlers for specific operations and prompts the user to select a web application. Next the client application passes execution data described in a predetermined format to the web application selected by the user so that the client application transfers execution liability of a general operation. With the above processing cooperation between the client application and the web application by late binding at runtime is realized. For example a technology called web intents employs this method.

Further as a method for making processing of a client application and of a web application to seamlessly cooperate with each other a method has been discussed in which an application having operated as a web application is installed to the client application. For example see Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication translation of PCT Application No. 2007 519071. 

It may be desirable to perform service dependent pre post processing on the client side before after execution of a service depending on the service provided by a web application.

For example assume a case in which a web application provides a report output service that reports operation status of a plurality of network devices managed by the client. In this case if a client side module can obtain desired information from the network devices at execution immediately before the execution of the service before calling the report output service the client can input information for highly accurate reporting to the web application.

Further assume a case in which a web application provides a firmware management service that distributes firmware for a plurality of network devices managed by the client. In this case if a client side module can obtain current firmware information from the network devices at execution immediately before the execution of a service before calling the firmware management service the web application can provide more appropriate firmware to the network devices or to the client. When firmware is provided to the client after calling of the firmware management service it is necessary for the client side module to distribute the firmware to the network devices as post processing.

The technology provided in the description of the related art does not assume execution of pre post processing linked with the service when calling such a service provided by a web application.

An aspect of the present invention is directed to a technique for flexibly performing on a client side a cooperation operation corresponding to a service provided by a called web application or the like.

A client configured to perform communication with a server according to the present invention includes a request unit configured to access a service provided by the server and to request operation control information corresponding to the service a registration unit configured to execute registration processing of the operation control information received from the server according to the request a calling unit configured to call the service in order to cause the server to execute the service according to selection of the service corresponding to the operation control information registered by a user and an execution unit configured to execute processing to be executed by the client based on the operation control information in calling of the service in order to pass to the server information to be required for the service to be called according to the selection by the user.

Further features and aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.

Various exemplary embodiments features and aspects of the invention will be described in detail below with reference to the drawings.

An exemplary embodiment of a management system according to the present invention will be described. Note that here web intents will be exemplarily described as an example of a mechanism of control in which an application that operates on a client is in cooperation with a web application that operates on a server using operation control information. Apparently a mechanism other than web intents may be employed as long as the mechanism similarly performs control using operation control information.

Further a firmware management service and a reporting service of print use status to a plurality of network printers will be exemplarily described as an example of a web application that operates on the server. Alternatively the present invention is applicable to web services such as an application distribution service a resource distribution service and an address book distribution service to a plurality of network printers as similar management services of a network device. Further the present invention is also applicable to a case in which a client side collects device information and status information of network printers when calling a print service provided by a web application.

The management system includes a client connected by a local area network LAN and one or more servers connected through a wide area network WAN over a firewall . Further one or more network printers connected by a LAN exist as network devices managed by the client . Note that the server and the client have a configuration of a general use computer. Regarding things in the hardware configurations that overlap with each other between the server and the client only one of them will be described and description of the other will be omitted.

In the present exemplary embodiment web applications which are different from each other are assumed to operate in the plurality of servers. The client can call a service provided by a web application of any server by a similar operation using a browser application that operates on the client for example. Further each web application of the plurality of servers may provide the same type of services. That is a user of the client can appropriately select and call a service in consideration of the content of each service. Therefore in the present invention the user can call and execute a web service provided on the Internet called a cloud service which has been increasing in recent years without paying attention to a vendor who is a provider of the web service.

Further one server may be configured as a system including a plurality of devices and the plurality of devices may be in cooperation with each other to provide the client with a service by a web application.

In the server a central processing unit CPU executes processing based on an application program and the like stored in a read only memory ROM or in an external memory . Further the CPU comprehensively controls devices connected to a system bus . A random access memory RAM functions as a main memory and a work area of the CPU . The ROM is a read only memory that functions as a storage area of a basic input output I O program and the like. The ROM or the external memory stores an operating system program hereinafter OS that is a control program of the CPU . Further the ROM or the external memory stores a file and other various types of data to be used in processing based on the application program. A network interface I F is connected to a network and performs network communication. An external memory I F controls an access to from the external memory such as a hard disc HD . The external memory stores a boot program various applications a user file an editing file. The server operates in a state in which the CPU is executing the basic I O program and the OS written in the ROM or the external memory . The basic I O program is written in the ROM and the OS is written in the ROM or the external memory . When the user turns ON an electric power source of a computer the OS is written in the RAM from the ROM or the external memory by an initial program loading function in the basic I O program and the operation of the OS starts. The system bus connects the devices.

In the client a key board I F controls inputs from a keyboard and a pointing device not illustrated . A display I F controls display of a display . The CPU opens various windows registered based on commands instructed with a mouse cursor and the like not illustrated on the display and executes various types of data processing.

In the network printer a network I F is connected to a network and performs network communication. A CPU outputs an image signal as output information to a printer through a printer I F connected to a system bus based on a control program and the like. Note that the control program is stored in a ROM an external memory or the like. The CPU is capable of performing communication processing with a computer through the network I F and is capable of notifying the client of information in the network printer and the like. Further the CPU executes processing based on an application program and the like stored in the ROM or the external memory . A RAM functions as a main memory and a work area of the CPU and is capable of expanding a memory capacity with an optional RAM connected to an expansion port. Note that the RAM is used as an output information rasterization region an environment data storage region and a non volatile RAM NVRAM . A ROM is a ROM and the external memory is an external memory such as a hard disk HD . The ROM or the external memory stores control program of the CPU font data to be used when the output information is generated and information to be used on the network printer . An operation unit I F serves as an interface between the network printer and an operation unit and outputs to the operation unit image data to be displayed. In addition the operation unit I F receives information input by the user through the operation unit . The operation unit corresponds to an operation panel and the like on which a switch and a light emitting diode LED indicator for an operation are arranged. The printer I F outputs an image signal as output information to the printer printer engine . An external memory I F memory controller controls an access to from the external memory such as a hard disk HD or an integrated circuit IC card. Note that the above described external memory is not limited to one and the network printer includes at least one external memory and may be able to be connected to a plurality of external memories that stores an optional font card in addition to a built in font and a program that interprets a printer control language in a different language system. Further the network printer may include an NVRAM not illustrated and store printer mode setting information from the operation unit . The system bus connects devices.

With regard to the above described hardware configuration each device may include a plurality of similar hardware devices. For example the server may include a plurality of CPUs.

First a software configuration of the server will be illustrated. In the server an application and modules exist as files stored in the external memory . The application and the modules are program modules loaded into the RAM and executed by the OS or by a module that uses the modules at execution. In addition the application can be added to a compact disc read only memory CD ROM not illustrated of the external memory or to an HD of the external memory through a network.

A network module performs network communication with a computer. The network module includes a transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP module and a hypertext transport protocol HTTP module . The TCP IP module performs network communication by the TCP IP protocol. The HTTP module uses a TCP as a transport protocol and performs network communication by the HTTP protocol. A web server service module provides a service responding an HTTP response upon receiving an HTTP request from the client . The application manages the network printer through the client by issuing an instruction to the client . The application is mounted as a program that executes processing in response to an HTTP request for example.

As described above the application realizes a web application that provides a service for managing the client and the network printer together with the web server service module .

A reporting module receives information of the network printer collected by a reporting module of an application that operates on the client . The information of the network printer received by the reporting module includes device configuration information and print history information of the network printer for example. The reporting module generates a use status report that indicates a use status of the network printer by a table or a graph based on the received information of the network printer . The generated report is stored in a database server service module DB module . Then when having received a report display request through a web browser that operates on the client the application requests the reporting module to perform report acquisition processing. The reporting module that has received the report acquisition request acquires the use status report stored in the DB module . The use status report of the network printer generated by the reporting module is displayed on a user interface UI of the web browser that operates on the client . The use status report may be able to be downloaded in an arbitrary format file such as a comma separated value CSV format or a portable document format PDF .

A firmware management module stores firmware for network printer in the DB module . The firmware management module receives a firmware acquisition request from a firmware management module of the application that operates on the client described above. When having received the firmware acquisition request the firmware management module acquires the firmware for network printer from the DB module . The firmware management module returns the acquired firmware to the firmware management module of the application that operates on the client and is a requestor.

An AutoDownload module returns in response to a request from an AutoDownload module of the application that operates on the client a requested module file. For example the AutoDownload module acquires a module file from the DB module . The AutoDownload module may return access information uniform resource locator URL information of another database server that can download the requested module file. In this case the AutoDownload module that operates on the client acquires an appropriate module file using the access information.

An operation control information management module performs overall control about operation control information. The operation control information management module generates and returns HTML data including tag information for registration of operation control information in response to a request from an operation control information management module of the application that operates on the client .

The DB module manages data and stores and takes out data according to a request from other modules. The DB module may be in a separate device from the server as long as the module can be accessed from the application .

A service management table is a table that manages information about a service provided by the application . The information managed by the service management table is for example a service identification ID and a service name. Here the service ID is an ID uniquely identifying a service and the service name indicates a name of the service.

An operation control information management table is a table that manages the operation control information of a service provided by the application . The information managed by the operation control information management table is for example Service ID Action Type Href and Disposition. Here the Service ID is an ID uniquely identifying a service the Action is information indicating an operation executable by the service and the Type is filter information associated with the Action. The Href is information indicating a page loaded at selection of a service and the Disposition indicates a method for opening a page of the service.

A client processing information management table is a table that manages information about processing that needs to be executed on the client side in association with calling or execution of a service provided by the application . The information managed by the client processing information management table is for example Service ID File Class Method ExecuteAt AutoDownload and DeviceType.

Here the Service ID is an ID uniquely identifying a service and the File indicates a name of a file that needs client processing execution. The Class is a name of a class that needs client processing execution and the Method is a name of a method that needs client processing execution. The ExecuteAt indicates a timing at which client processing is executed. Here a case that needs execution before calling a service is specified as a value before and a case that needs execution after calling a service is specified as a value after . The AutoDownload indicates whether automatic download is performed from the server when a file necessary for the client execution processing does not exist in the client.

The DeviceType indicates whether the client execution processing is for a network device manufactured by a vendor that provides the application manufactured by own company private or for a network device manufactured by a different vendor manufactured by another company standard . A method for identifying the device type may be a method for identifying an ID that identifying a vendor.

Note that the DeviceType may just define and specify information that identifying the type of a device to be serviced for each service so that the client side module can perform processing. Therefore a plurality of pieces of information conditions that identifies the device such as the DeviceType is assumed to be set. In that case product categories of the device such as a printer a scanner a smart phone a digital camera and a car navigation system as an ID of the DeviceType other than the information of a vendor. In addition model information that is defined by a vendor of the network device can be set as an ID of the DeviceType. Other than the above information that identifies a platform such as an OS operated in the network device can be set as an ID of the DeviceType.

A firmware management table is a table that manages information of firmware provided in a firmware management service. The information managed by the firmware management table is for example Firmware ID Product ID Firmware Version and File. Here the Firmware ID is an ID that uniquely identifies firmware. The Product ID is an ID that uniquely indicates a type of product of the device such as the network printer to which the firmware is applicable. The Firmware Version is information indicating a version of firmware and the File indicates a file name of the firmware.

A report management table is a table that manages information of a report provided in a reporting service. The information managed by the report management table is for example Report ID File and CreatedOn. Here the Report ID is an ID that uniquely identifies a report the File indicates a file name of the report and the CreatedOn indicates information of report creation date and time.

Next a software configuration of the client will be illustrated. Note that each module that constitutes the client is a program module existing as a file stored in the ROM or the external memory . Each module is loaded into the RAM and executed by the OS or by a module that uses the module at execution.

A network module performs network communication with the server and the network printer . The network module includes a TCP IP module and an HTTP module . The TCP IP module performs network communication by a TCP IP protocol. The HTTP module uses a TCP as a transport protocol and performs network communication by the HTTP protocol.

The application manages the network printer and calls a service from the application on the server . The operation control information management module performs overall operation control information related processing. An example of the application includes a management application that searches for a network printer existing on a network displays device information thereof and manages status information. Other than the above the present invention is applicable to any application as long as the application can expand a function by adding a module that executes a service provided by the server. To be specific a general web browser may be employed.

The operation control information management module accesses the application on the server through the network module and acquires tag information for operation control information registration from the acquired HTML data and registers the information. In addition the operation control information management module sets data specified by the user to the operation control information when the user requests an operation to a service and displays a UI so that the user can select the service that has been registered as the operation control information regarding the operation. When the user selects the service the operation control information management module performs calling processing of the service selected by the user using the set data in the operation control information.

The reporting module is a module for executing necessary processing on the client side in association with execution of a reporting service provided by the application on the server . The reporting module acquires print history information through a print processing module of the network printer as pre processing before the execution of a reporting service. In addition the reporting module also acquires the configuration information through a device information management module of the network printer described below as pre processing before the execution of a reporting service.

The firmware management module is a module for executing necessary processing on the client side in association with execution of a firmware management service provided by the application on the server . The firmware management module acquires the configuration information through the device information management module of the network printer as pre processing before the execution of a firmware management service and enables a firmware update function through a network. In addition the firmware management module transmits firmware to the device information management module of the network printer described below and requests firmware update as post processing after the execution of a firmware management service.

The AutoDownload module downloads a module file necessary for executing processing on the client side through the AutoDownload module on the server . The web browser transmits an HTTP request message through the network module and receives an HTTP response message and displays the message. An access from the client to the server is performed through the web browser .

Note that the application and the application have been configured to provide a plurality of services such as reporting and firmware management. Here the present exemplary embodiment can be realized when each service is provided and a plurality of applications having an operation control information management module is operated. In addition the operation control information management module is incorporated in a platform such as an OS in which an application operates and each module of the application and the OS are in cooperation with each other so that the present invention can be realized.

Then a software configuration of the network printer will be illustrated. In the network printer various modules exist as files stored in the ROM or the external memory and are loaded into the RAM and executed at execution.

A network module performs network communication with the client using an arbitrary communication protocol. The print processing module receives controls a print job transmitted from the client and performs print processing. In addition the print processing module manages each history of a print job which is an object to be processed as print history information and returns the history in response to a request from the reporting module of the client . The device information management module manages configuration information such as product type information an IP address installation location information and firmware version information of the network printer . In addition the device information management module returns the configuration information in response to a request from the reporting module of the client . Further the device information management module also manages firmware of the network printer . When having received a firmware distribution instruction from the firmware management module on the client through the network module the device information management module updates the own firmware by the received firmware. In addition the device information management module enables the firmware update function through a network of the own device in response to the firmware management module of the client .

Operations of the server and the client when the client accesses the server and performs registration processing of operation control information will be descried with reference to the flowchart illustrated in .

In step S the operation control information management module of the client transmits a registration request of the operation control information to the operation control information management module of the server . In step S the operation control information management module of the server receives the registration request of the operation control information transmitted from the client . In step S the operation control information management module acquires the operation control information from the operation control information management table of the DB module . In step S the operation control information management module determines whether there is processing to be executed by the client client execution processing when calling a service regarding the operation control information based on the information stored in the client processing information management table of the DB module . When there is client execution processing Yes in step S the processing proceeds to step S. Otherwise No in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the operation control information management module acquires processing information regarding the client execution processing from the client processing information management table of the DB module .

In step S the operation control information management module generates HTML data to be returned to the client . At that time the operation control information management module declares the operation control information acquired in step S as tag information. Further when having acquired the client execution processing information in step S the operation control information management module also declares the information in a format interpretable by the operation control information management module of the client . In step S the operation control information management module of the server transmits the HTML data generated in step S to the operation control information management module of the client .

HTML data illustrates an example of HTML data in which the operation control information corresponding to the firmware management service and the processing information regarding processing to be executed by the client are described.

HTML data is operation control information of the firmware management service indicating that it is to receive data in an extensible markup language XML format as a parameter and it is possible to display a service page in any inline display such as new Window or Picker. HTML data to indicate processing information to be executed by the client. HTML data indicates that execution of acquisition processing of the network printer is necessary as pre processing in calling a firmware management service. HTML data indicates that execution of processing of enabling the firmware update function through the network of the network printer is necessary as a pre processing in calling a firmware management service. HTML data indicates that execution of distribution processing of firmware to the network printer is necessary on the client side as post processing in calling a firmware management service.

HTML data is an example of HTML data in which operation control information corresponding to a reporting service and processing information regarding processing to be executed by the client are described.

HTML data is operation control information of the reporting service and indicates that it is to receive data in an XML format as a parameter and it is possible to display a service page in any inline display such as new window or picker. HTML data to indicate processing information regarding processing to be executed by the client. The HTML data indicates that processing of acquiring print history information and configuration information from the network printer manufactured by the same vendor as the provider of the service which is an object to be managed by the client is necessary as pre processing in calling a reporting service. The HTML data S indicates that processing of acquiring print history information and configuration information from the network printer manufactured by a different vendor from the provider of the service which is an object to be managed by the client is necessary as pre processing in calling a reporting service.

Note that there is a case in which reporting about a device manufactured by a different vendor from the provider of the service cannot be performed depending on a provided reporting service. Therefore in the HTML data generated in step S a plurality of processing information regarding the processing to be executed by the client may exist only a piece of such processing information may exist or no such processing information may exist.

In step S the operation control information management module of the client receives the HTML data transmitted from the server . In step S the operation control information management module acquires the operation control information and the client execution processing information in the tag information from the received HTML data in step S. In step S the operation control information management module registers the operation control information in association with the client execution processing information and completes the processing.

The user can select a service provided by the web application at the server side from the application and execute the service according to the registration processing of the operation control information here.

An operation in the client in calling of a service of the server by the client will be described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in . The processing is executed by the application when a service is selected which is corresponding to the operation control information having been already registered by the user on the UI screen of the client .

In step S the operation control information management module of the client determines whether there is processing to be executed by the client based on the operation control information registered about the service selected by the user. When execution of processing is necessary by the client Yes in step S the processing proceeds to step S and when execution of processing is not necessary No in step S the processing proceeds to step S.

In step S the operation control information management module acquires processing information regarding processing to be executed by the client from the registered operation control information. In step S the operation control information management module checks whether there is a module file necessary for the processing to be executed by the client in the application . For example in a case of a firmware management service the operation control information management module checks whether there is the firmware management module . For another example in a case of a reporting service the operation control information management module checks whether there is the reporting module . When there is the module file Yes in step S target processing is executed in step S. When there is no module file No in step S in step S the operation control information management module determines whether the module file is an target file of AutoDownload based on the processing information acquired in step S. When the module file is the target file of AutoDownload Yes in step S the processing proceeds to step S. When the module file is not the target file of AutoDownload No in step S the client processing cannot be executed and thus the processing is terminated after an error message is output as needed. In step S the operation control information management module requests AutoDownload processing of the module file necessary for the AutoDownload module to the server . When AutoDownload of the necessary module file is completed the processing proceeds to step S .

In first in step S the operation control information management module determines an execution timing based on the processing information acquired in step S. When the processing is executed at the timing of S in whether there is processing information execution of which is necessary before calling a service is determined. When there is processing to be executed before calling a service Yes in step S the processing proceeds to step S. Otherwise No in step S the processing exits from the present processing and proceeds to step S.

In steps S and S the operation control information management module performs processing with respect to all of the network devices here the network printers which are objects to be managed by the application . In step S the operation control information management module analyzes the device information of the network printer and identifies the device type. To be specific the operation control information management module identifies whether the network printer is a printer of the provider vendor of the service or a printer manufactured by a vendor other than the provider vendor. In step S the operation control information management module requests each module in the application to execute processing corresponding to the processing information corresponding to the type of the device. Note that in the definition in the processing information regarding the processing to be executed by the client when there is no difference in processing content depending on the type of the device similar processing is executed.

For example in a case of a firmware management service acquisition of the configuration information of a network printer by the firmware management module and enabling processing of the firmware update function through the network are executed as the processing executed before calling a service. For another example in a case of a reporting service acquisition processing of the device configuration information and the print history information of the network printer by the reporting module is executed as processing executed before calling a service. Acquisition results of the configuration information and print history information of the network printer which are results of processing execution are output in an XML file format or the like for example and are used as they are as parameters of the service calling.

Following that in step S the operation control information management module calls a service provided by the server based on the operation control information. At this time the service is called using the processing results in step S as parameters as needed. In addition a result of the service calling is output in an XML file format or the like as needed and is used as it is as a parameter of the processing to be executed by the client after calling the service. Then the processing proceeds to step S and the processing to be executed by the client after calling the service is executed . In step S when there is no processing to be executed by the client based on the operation control information No in step S the processing of step S is omitted. In processing similar to the above described processing is executed. Here since the processing has been executed at a timing of step S whether there is processing information execution of which is necessary after calling the service is determined and the processing is appropriately executed. To be specific in a case of a firmware management service distribution processing of firmware to the network printer by the firmware management module is executed as the client execution processing executed after calling the service.

As described above in calling of a service provided by a web application by late binding at runtime on the server side by expanding operation control information like the present invention pre post processing on the client side can be instructed together. In addition in the present invention necessary processing can be executed at an appropriate timing according to the operation control information on the client side.

In a first exemplary embodiment described above a method has been described which instructs client side processing before after calling a service by late binding at runtime by the server side in a case a service that requires a cooperation operation by the client before after calling the service.

In a second exemplary embodiment a case will be described in which processing is executed on the client side in the intervals of calling a service to a plurality of network printers . A firmware management service with respect to a plurality of network printers will be exemplarily described as an example of a web application that operates on a server. Apparently the present invention may be applied to a web application other than the example given in the present exemplary embodiment.

A system configuration and a hardware configuration a software configuration of a management system of the exemplary embodiment are similar to those of of the first exemplary embodiment. Therefore such description is omitted. Also operations of the server and the client when the client accesses the server and performs operation control information registration are substantially similar to those of of the first exemplary embodiment. Therefore such description is omitted.

Client execution processing is called after completion of client execution processing after first calling and calling in calling of a service to the plurality of network printers . In the present exemplary embodiment an example will be described in which a screen is displayed for asking the user to confirm whether to perform continuous processing with respect to the remaining network printers after a firmware management service is called to a first network printer and firmware is distributed.

An operation of the client when the client calls a service of the server will be described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in . Note that here description of processing similar to step S to step S and step S illustrated in and of processing similar to step S to step S illustrated in are omitted.

In step S when the processing before calling the service is completed the processing proceeds to the processing of service calling of step S . The present processing is executed with respect to a network service here a network printer to be managed which is a target of the service.

In step S the operation control information management module calls a service provided by the server based on the operation control information using the client execution result as a parameter. The service calling result is output in an XML file format for example and is used as it is as a parameter of the client execution processing after calling a service.

Following that in step S the operation control information management module executes the above described processing illustrated in . To be specific the operation control information management module executes the processing after calling the service as needed based on the processing information. In the present exemplary embodiment the operation control information management module requests the firmware management module to execute processing and displays a UI indicated by the pop up dialogue of requesting the user to confirm continuation of processing.

In step S the operation control information management module determines whether to continue the processing based on an input through the pop up dialogue of . When the user selects a Yes button through the pop up dialogue UI of Yes in step S the processing proceeds to Yes at the branch in step S and proceeds to the next processing about the network printer. When the user selects a No button through the pop up dialogue UI of No in step S the processing proceeds to No at the branch in step S and does not continue processing and terminates the present processing .

Note that in step S when there is no processing to be executed after calling the service the processing omits processing in step S returns to step S and repeats the processing until performing processing with respect to all network printers.

With the above processing even in a case where the processing is executed on the client side in the intervals of calling a service to a plurality of network printers the server side can instruct the client side processing by the late binding at runtime. Especially a user s input to interrupt the processing becomes possible when processing is performed with respect to a plurality of management devices before after calling a service.

Note that a system including an appropriate combination of the above described exemplary embodiments and a function of the system are included in the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention can also be realized by a computer of a system or apparatus that reads out and executes computer executable instructions recorded on a storage medium e.g. non transitory computer readable storage medium to perform the functions of one or more of the above described embodiment s of the present invention and by a method performed by the computer of the system or apparatus by for example reading out and executing the computer executable instructions from the storage medium to perform the functions of one or more of the above described embodiment s . The computer may comprise one or more of a central processing unit CPU micro processing unit MPU or other circuitry and may include a network of separate computers or separate computer processors. The computer executable instructions may be provided to the computer for example from a network or the storage medium. The storage medium may include for example one or more of a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a storage of distributed computing systems an optical disk such as a compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD or Blu ray Disc BD a flash memory device a memory card and the like.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 015872 filed Jan. 30 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

