---

title: Dynamic jukebox
abstract: Methods and systems for improving a music experience are described. Multiple users can provide their musical preferences (e.g., favorite artist, group, genre, era, etc.). When the users come within the vicinity of a jukebox, the users' musical preferences are retrieved or determined. Using the combined or shared preferences of the users in the vicinity of the jukebox, the system is able to create or adjust the current playlist of songs, tailoring the music played based on the users listening nearby.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575967&OS=09575967&RS=09575967
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09575967
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140331
---
The present invention generally relates to the playing of music based on the preferences of nearby users.

Listening to music out loud can be a social activity that involves friends family strangers co workers and the like. For example in a household people may play music out loud at parties and other social gatherings. In another example at a shopping mall music may be played in public areas.

Jukeboxes having several songs available for selection and play are generally well known in the art. As with game amusement devices jukeboxes typically operate upon input of currency and are installed in locations such as bars restaurants airports shopping malls video arcades casinos or the like. Upon receipt of currency a user is prompted to select one or more songs for play typically over a public speaker system installed in the location of the jukebox. As such the jukebox plays the song selected by a single user rather than the song preferred by the majority of the users in the vicinity of the jukebox. Typical jukeboxes have little means of accommodating the tastes and preferences of several users.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods that dynamically create and adjust music playlists based on the musical preferences of users in the area of a jukebox. As used herein jukebox can be any device that plays or outputs music including a speaker or speaker system. Using the combined or shared preferences of the users in the vicinity of the jukebox the system is able to create or adjust the current playlist of songs tailoring the music played based on the users listening nearby.

Multiple users can provide their musical preferences e.g. favorite artist group genre era etc. to the system and the system associates these musical preferences with a specific user ID. In another embodiment the system determines the musical preferences. When the users come within the vicinity of a jukebox and a beacon the users mobile device pairs with the beacon. The beacon determines the user IDs associated with the users near the jukebox and beacon the user IDs are transmitted to the system and the system retrieves or determines the musical preferences of the users. The system selects songs to play based on these musical preferences and transmits the selected songs to the jukebox. In various embodiments the selected songs are adjusted based on location identity of the users time of the day and or time of the year.

As shown in the system includes a first mobile device e.g. a smartphone a jukebox device a beacon e.g. a radio frequency beacon or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacon a second mobile device e.g. a smartphone and at least one service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over the network . The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

The first mobile device and second mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by the first user and the second user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example users and may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server and with each other via the user devices and .

The mobile devices and are configured to perform one or more tasks when mobile devices and are located in proximity to the beacon . The task to be performed can include for example launching an application program setting certain files to non accessible mode initiating a phone call sounding an alarm storing a message displaying a message etc.

The first mobile device and second mobile device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The first mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by the first user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example the first user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers bill payment etc. with the service provider server via the first mobile device . The second user device in turn may be used by the second user to interact with the service provider server . In various implementations the mobile devices may include a wireless telephone e.g. cellular or mobile phone a tablet a wearable computing device a personal computer a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices.

The first mobile device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by the first user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. with the jukebox device or the service provider server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the first user via the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network .

In an example the first user is able to purchase music from the one or more jukebox devices via the service provider server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments the first user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more songs from the one or more jukebox devices via the service provider server .

The first mobile device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to first user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features calendar application contacts application location based services application programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

In various implementations a user profile may be created using data and information obtained from cell phone activity over the network . Cell phone activity transactions may be used by the service provider server to create at least one user profile for the first user based on activity from the first mobile device e.g. cell phone and for the second user based on activity from the second mobile device . The user profile may be updated with each financial and or information transaction e.g. payment transaction purchase transaction etc. achieved through use of the mobile devices and . In various aspects this may include the type of transaction and or the location information from the mobile devices and . As such the profile may be used for recognizing patterns of potential fraud setting transaction limits on the user etc.

The first mobile device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the first mobile device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the first user such as personal information related to the first user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the first user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server . In various embodiments the user identifier is associated with the musical preferences of the first user .

In some embodiments the first mobile device includes a communication subsystem which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network over which the first mobile device is intended to operate. For example the first mobile device can include communication subsystems designed to operate over a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network an Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network.

In an exemplary embodiment the first mobile device includes a library containing music purchased by the first user . The library in various embodiments may be accessed by the service provider server to determine musical preferences of the first user .

Second mobile device may have similar applications and modules as first mobile device . Second mobile device may also include a user interface application and one or more other applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit second user to browse information over network . For example in one embodiment user interface application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet and communicate with service provider server .

Second mobile device may further include other applications such as security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email text IM and voice applications that allow second user to communicate through network and create and manage funding sources. Second mobile device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of second mobile device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment recipient device authentication e.g. the phone number associated with second mobile device . Identifiers may be used by a service provider to associate second user with a particular account maintained by the service provider and musical preferences of the second user . Second mobile device further includes a communication subsystem and a music library.

The jukebox device is generally located in a bar restaurant club or other desired location such as a store an office a house or even an area e.g. containing a booth or exhibit within a field or convention center and is operable to play or deliver music. As such the jukebox device typically includes speakers. The one or more jukebox devices in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more business entities or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities . Examples of businesses entities include merchant sites resource information sites utility sites real estate management sites social networking sites etc. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of the user identity information as part of offering items e.g. music to the first user and or the second user over the network . As such each of the one or more jukebox devices may include a music database for identifying music for sale or play which may be made available to the mobile devices and for viewing and purchase or listening by the first user and or the second user . In one or more embodiments users and may complete a transaction such as purchasing the music via service provider server .

The music database in various embodiments contains a library of audio content and audiovisual content typically music and associated video or graphics . In one embodiment the music database is periodically updated with new or popular songs. The updating may occur remotely or it may be updated manually by for example an operator using an update tool provided by the entity controlling the jukebox device .

The jukebox device in one embodiment also includes a user interface application . In some embodiments the jukebox device may receive store and or display a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI may display a listing of the music tracks that are stored in the music database and available for playback. Additionally the GUI may provide a screen or portion of a screen that displays the currently playing music track.

Each of the jukebox devices in one embodiment may include at least one jukebox identifier which may be included as part of the one or more songs made available for purchase so that e.g. particular songs are associated with particular jukebox devices . In one implementation the jukebox identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the entity controlling the jukebox such as business and banking information. In various embodiments users and may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for songs with each jukebox device via the service provider server over the network .

Beacon may be set up by merchants or individuals offering various items such as products and or services for sale. As defined herein a beacon is a short range communication device having a known or fixed location that provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. An example of a beacon is a radio frequency RF beacon e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon infrared beacon or a radio frequency identifier RFID tag. For example a BLE beacon can broadcast an RF signal that includes its position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude which can be detected by a mobile device. In some implementations the beacon can also advertise location based services provided by a beacon network. A beacon network encompasses a plurality of beacons in a geographic region.

Beacon is typically maintained by one or more service providers. When first user or second user comes in range of beacon a mobile application on the first mobile device or second mobile device run by a service provider can wake up and connect to the beacon . Mobile devices and can then receive messages from beacon and communicate with beacon . In some implementations beacon is a BLE beacon.

Beacon can output a wireless signal that can be detected by mobile devices and when mobile devices and are within a certain proximity of the beacon . Beacon may be a device that periodically or continuously transmits a signal such as a short distance wireless e.g. BLE medium distance wireless e.g. Wi Fi and or other electro magnetic and or electro magnetic transmissions. Power on beacon can be adjusted to communicate only within a desired range which may depend on intended message ranges. Mobile devices and are configured to detect the transmitted signals from beacon such that when mobile devices and are located within the transmission range of beacon the signal may be detected.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the first user the second user jukebox device and beacon . As such the service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with the first mobile device second mobile device jukebox device and or beacon over the network . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. users and and merchants. For example account information may include private financial information of users and such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between users and and a merchant. In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the users and may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and users and may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate users and with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

In various embodiments service provider server includes a jukebox application . The jukebox application can provide personalized music to the first user and or second user recommend music likely to be appealing to the first user and or second user and bill first user and or second user for music purchases. In some embodiments the jukebox application collects and stores musical preferences of the first user and second user . For example the jukebox application may build up or compile a list of the first user and second user s preferred songs. Specifically the jukebox application can determine user preferences based on the user or user s selection of one or more tracks from a particular category a particular artist a particular album a particular time period e.g. the 80 s and or a particular genre. The jukebox application can also analyze the music stored on the first mobile device and or second mobile device . From that information the jukebox application and determine what kind of music the users and enjoy listening to.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for improving a music experience for a user is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In various embodiments the users and register with a service provider which runs a mobile application. Registration may include signing up for the service and agreeing to any terms required by the service provider such as through a user device. In one embodiment the user device is a mobile computing device such as a smart phone a PC or a computing tablet. In other embodiments registration may be done completely through the user device partially through the user device or without using the user device such as through a phone call or in person visit to a representative of the payment service provider.

The user may be requested to provider specific information for registration such as but not limited to a name address phone number email address picture a user name for the account and a password or PIN for the account. The type of information may depend on whether the user already has an account with the service provider. Requested information may be entered through the user device or other means including voice or manual key entry. Once all the requested information is received and confirmed the service provider may create an account for the user.

At step the first user and second user each provide various musical preferences e.g. favorite artists albums songs genres themes etc. For example the first user or second user can manually enter musical preference information or select options from drop down menus. In another example the first user or second user links an external data source such as Spotify Pandora Last.fm etc. to provide his or her musical preferences. In various aspects the first user and second user s musical preferences are associated with a user ID. In some embodiments the users and can also specify the kind of music he or she does not enjoy or does not want to hear.

In another embodiment the musical preferences are determined by the service provider server without any input from the first user or the second user . The service provider server can access the music library on the first mobile device and second mobile device analyze the music stored in the library and determine what kinds of songs or artists the first user and second user prefer to listen to. The service provider can also use past purchases and or searches of music concert tickets and festivals as well as information from social networks such as events the users and have attended or music the users and like.

When first user and second user enter the vicinity of beacon at step first mobile device and second mobile device each make a connection with beacon and beacon passes mobile device details e.g. user identifier and user identifier and location information to jukebox device . In one embodiment once the mobile device or is connected to the beacon first user or second user can choose to purchase a song on the jukebox device and immediately hear the purchased song.

The jukebox device is also in the vicinity of the first user and second user and in an area where music played by the jukebox device can be heard by both the first user and the second user . In various embodiments the jukebox device and the beacon are substantially in the same location e.g. same building or are close to each other e.g. within about 5 to about 10 feet of each other . For example there may be a beacon in each room of a restaurant and the jukebox device may be located in a central location of the restaurant. In another example a beacon may be present in different rooms of a house and the jukebox device may be located in the living room where the different rooms in the house can hear the music.

The beacon senses first user and second user s presence by way of electronic communication with first mobile device and second mobile device . As such first user and second user s specific location can be determined using beacon . Once the location of the first user and second user are determined the beacon communicates with the jukebox device in the area of the first user and the second user .

At step the jukebox device transmits the user ID of the first user and the user ID of the second user to service provider server . At step the service provider server retrieves or determines the musical preferences associated with each user ID. In this way musical preferences for a plurality of users are compiled and collected by the service provider server .

At step the service provider server determines the shared music preferences of the plurality of users e.g. first user and second user and selects a playlist to play on the jukebox device based on the shared musical preferences. For example the first user may enjoy hard rock country music dance music and hip hop. The second user may enjoy new wave music pop music reggae blues and classical music. Based on these user preferences the service provider server may decide that dance pop music such as music by Michael Jackson Lady Gaga Janet Jackson Pet Shop Boys or Madonna would satisfy both the first and second users.

In various embodiments the server may be provided with an algorithm or other method to adjust the selected music based on the time of day e.g. day afternoon evening after midnight etc. location e.g. shopping mall night club restaurant playground office church etc. time of year e.g. Valentine s Day spring summer fall winter Christmas Day etc. and or characteristics of the users e.g. age relationship of users etc. . For example assume the shared music preferences of the first and second users include dance club music and soothing seventies music. During the day the server would choose the soothing seventies music but during the night the server may choose to share the dance club music. That selection may change based on the location and or time of day. If the shared music preferences of the first and second users include Iron Maiden and Bach and the location where the music is to be played is an office environment the server would choose to share Bach. During Christmas the server would choose to share preferred Christmas songs over preferred love songs. During Valentine s Day the server would choose the preferred love songs. In another example the first and second users may both enjoy listening to rap music with explicit lyrics and folk music. Because the first user is a teenage student and the second user is the student s teacher the server would choose to share the folk music rather than the rap music.

In exemplary embodiments the server may also adjust the selected music based on the type of activity associated with the location of the jukebox device . For instance music selected to be played in a pool room of a restaurant may be different from music selected to be played in a bar room of a restaurant. The server in certain embodiments may also restrict the volume of the music so that music in the one part of an establishment e.g. eating area of a restaurant is not as loud as music in another part of the establishment e.g. the bar area of the restaurant .

In other embodiments if the location where the jukebox device is located e.g. restaurant bar or club is having a country night then the service provider server may only select country songs from users shared preferences and block all other songs that are not defined as appropriate for country night. In another example a club owner has a hip hop night on Wednesdays beginning at 9 00 pm and ending at 4 00 am. At 9 00 pm on Wednesdays the service provider server may only select hip hop music from users shared preferences and block all other genres of music such as country music classic rock jazz blues and oldies. The service provider server may further limit the available selection of hard rock additional songs to hip hop esque hard rock songs. At 4 00 am the service provider server may go back to selecting all types of music without limiting to just hip hop music.

In yet another embodiment the service provider server adjusts the selected music based on the identity of the users. In some aspects of the present disclosure the musical preferences of a user or a group of users may take precedence. That is the musical preferences of all the users near the jukebox device may not be given equal weight. For example more consideration may be given to the musical preferences of a host of a party attendees of a party or a guest being celebrated e.g. a user celebrating a birthday or anniversary than to other users in the area of the jukebox device . In another example the relationship between users in the group is factored in. If the users are all co workers more conservative music may be selected instead of heavy metal even though the co workers all like heavy metal. If the users are all males more manly music may be selected as opposed to soft love songs even though the users all like soft love songs but maybe that preference is when the user is alone or with a spouse or significant other.

In various embodiments the service provider server may evaluate whether or not the selected music is appropriate to share. For example if the shared musical preferences of the users in the vicinity of the jukebox device contain only raunchy loud music and the location of the jukebox device is an office then the server would decide that the selected music is inappropriate and should not be played. In another example the jukebox device may be located in a banquet room in a restaurant where a wedding is taking place. If the shared musical preferences of the guests at the wedding only include sad melancholy songs the server would likely decide that this type of music should not be played.

If the server determines that the selected music can be shared at step the service provider server transmits the selected music playlist to the jukebox device . The jukebox device retrieves the selected music and plays it.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods that improve the music experience of a plurality of users. The music played is based on the shared music preferences of the users in the area rather than just a single user. The system examines various factors to determine what songs to play and whether or not it is appropriate to play the songs.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user i.e. sender recipient service provider action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

