---

title: Method and apparatus for determining a position of a vehicle based on driving behavior
abstract: An approach is provided for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior. An estimation platform processes driving information associated with a vehicle, mapping information associated with a segment of the travel path in use by the vehicle, or a combination thereof to determine a behavior trace to associate with the vehicle. The estimation platform also determines an offset between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of one or more other vehicles based on a matching between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles relative to the segment of the travel path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09347779&OS=09347779&RS=09347779
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09347779
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20141210
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of navigation services for estimating the position of a driver during travel as accurately as possible. Various techniques may be employed for tracking the vehicle as it travels along a roadway including global positioning system GPS based approaches. However even slight variations in clock timing changes in satellite configuration environmental obstructions or the like may result in GPS drift and thus inaccurate tracking results. Other approaches such as object or road geometry matching rely upon the analysis of data collected by various onboard sensors of the vehicle as a means of position tracking Unfortunately this capability may still result in error in instances where the physical object to be detected is not perceptible by the sensors.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior.

According to one embodiment a method comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of driving information associated with a vehicle mapping information associated with a segment of the travel path in use by the vehicle or a combination thereof to determine a behavior trace to associate with the vehicle. The method also comprises determining a behavior trace associated with one or more other vehicles that used the segment of the travel path the segment of the travel path or a combination thereof to determine a match between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles relative to the segment of the travel path. The method further comprises determining an offset between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles based on the match.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of driving information associated with a vehicle mapping information associated with a segment of a travel path in use by the vehicle or a combination thereof to determine a behavior trace to associate with the vehicle. The apparatus is also caused to determine a behavior trace associated with one or more other vehicles that used the segment of the travel path the segment of the travel path or a combination thereof to determine a match between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles relative to the segment of the travel path. The apparatus is further caused to determine an offset between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles based on the match.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of driving information associated with a vehicle mapping information associated with a segment of the travel path in use by the vehicle or a combination thereof to determine a behavior trace to associate with the vehicle. The apparatus is also caused to determine a behavior trace associated with one or more other vehicles that used the segment of the travel path the segment of the travel path or a combination thereof to determine a match between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles relative to the segment of the travel path. The apparatus is further caused to determine an offset between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles based on the match.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of driving information associated with a vehicle mapping information associated with a segment of the travel path in use by the vehicle or a combination thereof to determine a behavior trace to associate with the vehicle. The apparatus also comprises means for determining a behavior trace associated with one or more other vehicles that used the segment of the travel path the segment of the travel path or a combination thereof to determine a match between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles relative to the segment of the travel path. The apparatus further comprises means for determining an offset between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles based on the match.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side on the navigation system side on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider navigation system and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed method claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to autonomous vehicles it is contemplated that the exemplary methods and systems described herein may be used in connection with any other location based service or application that relies on such data. This may include for example beacon or tracking systems navigation and mapping systems pattern recognition systems and any other like systems.

As discussed previously service providers and device manufactures are increasingly interested in developing accurate data rich location based services and navigation services that improve the overall driving experience. Similarly the effectiveness of the data relied upon directly impacts the ability of a driver or an autonomous navigation system to accurately determine the position of a vehicle. For example autonomous vehicles typically employ onboard navigation systems for interacting with a global positioning service GPS mapping service or the like to receive relevant location information mapping information for tracking the vehicle as it travels along a travel path e.g. a roadway . Unfortunately even slight variations in clock timing changes in satellite configuration or environmental obstructions that block the passage of GPS signals may result in GPS drift thus resulting in inaccurate tracking results. For example a few seconds of GPS drift can translate into a number of meters of longitudinal or offset over time which is not accurate enough for autonomous driving.

In some instances positional improvement techniques may be employed to compensate for or in connection with the above described GPS based position location tracking techniques. This may include techniques that involve the use of onboard sensors of the vehicle for detecting certain objects or roadway features and matching said objects or features to known reference locations on a map. For instance a real time feature recognition system of the vehicle may capture an image of an object located along the roadway i.e. a road sign or landmark or an amount of curvature of the roadway itself. The object or feature may then be cross referenced against a map database for enabling the recognition system to estimate the location of the vehicle based on known geographic location information for the object or roadway feature. In this case the discrepancy between the position of the actual object or feature and that specified via the map is assumed to be the real time position error. Unfortunately this approach may result in errors in instances where the physical object to be detected is not recognized by the sensors and therefore unable to be cross referenced properly.

To address this issue system of enables navigation systems i.e. as used by an autonomous vehicle or in connection with a mobile device to evaluate an accuracy of a current position of a vehicle based on driving behavior data associated with the travel path. The system accesses a trace database and related geographic database in order to obtain data for grouping classifying and or correlating various driving behaviors with specific segments of a travel path e.g. a roadway . Per this approach at least one driving behavior e.g. a prevalent or predominant behavior pattern exhibited by other vehicles that traveled the same travel path may be accounted for by the navigation system in order to 1 determine a match between a current behavior of the vehicle and a historic behavior 2 determine the amount of offset between the behaviors and 3 adjust the estimated position of the vehicle based on the amount of offset.

By way of example the estimation platform may be implemented as a cloud based service hosted platform or the like for performing the above described functions. Alternatively the estimation platform may be directly integrated for processing data generated and or provided by one or more services content providers or applications . Per this integration the estimation platform may translate location based information navigation related content or the like into useful data for determining or correcting an estimated position of a vehicle based on a driving behavior associated with the travel path.

In one embodiment an estimation platform interfaces with one or more user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE configured with one or more navigation applications also collectively referred to as applications . The UE may correspond to an onboard navigation system of a vehicle a mobile device associated with a driver within the vehicle or the like. The navigation applications of the UE acquire navigation information location information mapping information and other data regarding the current travel path of the vehicle the whereabouts of the vehicle relative to the travel path the movement of the vehicle about the travel path etc.

In addition the navigation applications may interact with various sensors also collectively referred to as sensors for receiving and analyzing data regarding the vehicle the user other vehicles conditions regarding the driving environment etc. By way of example sensors e.g. of a mobile device or embedded within the vehicle may be used as GPS receivers for interacting with one or more satellites to determine speed position and location data of the vehicle. In addition the sensors may gather tilt data e.g. a degree of incline or decline of the vehicle during travel motion data light data sound data image data weather data temporal data and other data associated with the vehicle and or UEs thereof.

Still further the sensors may detect local or transient network and or wireless signals such as those transmitted by nearby devices during navigation of a vehicle along the travel path. This may include for example network routers configured within a premise e.g. home or business another UE or vehicle or a communicable traffic system e.g. traffic lights traffic cameras traffic signals digital signage . It is further noted in certain implementations that the sensors may correspond to or operate in connection with the sensors of the vehicle for enabling data exchange and interaction. This exchange may be facilitated by way of any known or still developing range based or wireless communication protocols.

As will be discussed further the estimation platform enables the UE to evaluate and adjust an estimated position determined for a vehicle relative to a segment of a travel path in order to achieve a more accurate position estimate result. For the purpose of illustration herein the travel path may include any network of links e.g. roadways highways terrain or nodes e.g. points of beginning terminating or intersecting of a link for enabling vehicular travel. As such a single stretch of roadway highway or terrain may comprise multiple different links and nodes. Also links may be further segmented or partitioned such as to represent a stretch of road at a time. For example a link having an end to end or node to node length of L meters may comprise a number segments N where each segment is of a length L N. It is noted that the segments referred to herein as a segment of a travel path may also be represented in terms of area or region accordingly. The exemplary embodiments herein may correspond to any known means of segmentation and or representation of the travel path or segments thereof.

In one embodiment the estimation platform monitors and collects data referred to herein as driving information for specifying one or more actions or conditions of the vehicle. The driving information may include for example acceleration information velocity information heading information bearing information orientation information curvature information tilt information or the like for a specific vehicle. In addition the driving information may include data for specifying a function or operation of the vehicle such as steering information pedal usage information wiper usage information headlight usage information navigation system usage information stereo system usage information vehicle state information or a combination thereof.

It is noted that a set or cluster of the above described driving information may be aggregated and stored to the trace database for a plurality of vehicles. Of further note the driving information may be analyzed i.e. based on analysis criteria to determine a multi variable state of driving behavior at a given segment of the travel path. The aggregation of data points comprising a driving information data set may be analyzed as a function of a single data point for enabling analysis of the shape form and or vector trajectory of driving behavior. For example the aggregated data points may be represented as a first form when viewed over time a second form when viewed over distance etc. This form as will be discussed further enables the estimation platform to perform shape or pattern matching analysis including for determining an amount of offset between respective behaviors for a common segment of a travel path.

By way of example a set of data aggregated for a plurality of vehicles for a segment of highway featuring an exit ramp may specify the following data for indicating a decrease in acceleration a decline in tilt a change in curvature and heading an applied amount of brake pressure an activation of the brake lights etc. to within a predetermined threshold or variance factor. Under this scenario this data may correspond to an EXIT behavior action response of the vehicle from the highway resulting from a downward curved exit ramp that connects to a street. In contrast a steady or increased acceleration of the vehicle with limited to no change in curvature or tilt of the vehicle and limited to no brake pressure or brake light activation for the same segment of highway may be determined as CONTINUED DRIVING behavior of the vehicle along the highway. Each of these distinct behaviors may further be represented as behavior patterns shapes or forms when viewed over a specific period of time distance etc. each behavior referred to herein as a behavior trace.

It is noted therefore that a single segment of a travel path may be associated with one or more classifications or behavior traces each representing a different driving behavior for that segment. Consequently each behavior trace corresponds to a decision and or action executed by a vehicle that traveled the same segment of the travel path over the course of time. The estimation platform may therefore identify the classification of the data set or cluster based on an association of the driving behavior with the driving information regarding the specific segment of the travel path. For the purpose of illustration herein the term trace refers to the ability of the estimation platform to track or trace vehicle behavior based upon multiple data points for representing multiple decisions and or actions relative to a confined portion region or area of roadway over a given period.

Also a behavior trace associated with a specific segment of a travel path may be further associated with mapping information regarding the segment. The mapping information may include data corresponding to or representative of the respective segments of the travel path within a geographic range. By way of example image or textual content location coordinates point of interest information navigation instructions or any other data representative of or related to a segment of the travel path may be associated with its corresponding behavior and or response type s . It is noted therefore that a behavior trace may be associated with the driving information or mapping information associated with any UE that is configured to interact with the estimation platform via a communication network . Furthermore a predominant behavior or driver response to the particular segment of the travel path may be specified in association with mapping information representative of the segment. As noted previously the classification may correspond to a specific shape form or vector for characterizing the behavior relative to a finite portion of a travel path.

In one embodiment the estimation platform may be configured to interface directly with a service platform for accessing various location based services also collectively referred to as services and content associated therewith. The estimation platform may also interface with one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers that provide deliver content of various types and genres e.g. navigation content travel content locality content marketing content upon request. Still further the estimation platform may interface with a geographic database for maintaining the mapping information for a specific segment of the travel path. It is noted that the service platform and content providers may interact with the geographic database for retrieving content maps waypoint data point of interest data and other information related to or representative of a travel segment its surrounding environment etc.

In one embodiment the estimation platform analyzes driving information associated with a vehicle along with the aforementioned mapping information in order to determine a current driving behavior of the vehicle. By way of example the estimation platform may be configured to periodically or continuously interact with the application in order to acquire sensor data regarding the vehicle the driver or the travel path. Once acquired the estimation platform may evaluate the sensor data as driving information against predetermined evaluation criteria in order to determine the current behavior classification corresponding to the driving information. This may include aggregating the driving trace data over time into an identifying pattern behavior trace .

In another embodiment the estimation platform determines whether the current behavior matches an expected behavior of the vehicle for the given segment of the travel path. The expected behavior of the vehicle may be specified in association with the mapping information for the corresponding segment of the travel path. Under this scenario the expected behavior be based upon analysis of the aggregated crowd sourced driving information of one or more other vehicles that used the travel path in the past. As such when the real time current driving behavior trace associated with the vehicle does not match the historic driving behavior trace the estimation platform determines the current estimated position of the vehicle as well as the amount of difference between the current estimated position of the vehicle and an expected estimated position of the vehicle.

By way of example the estimation platform may compare a movement type and or maneuver pattern performed by the vehicle as indicated by a current behavior trace for the vehicle to a historical movement type and or maneuver pattern performed by the one or more other vehicles. This may correspond to an offset reaction shape matching process wherein the affinity between the movement type and or maneuver pattern indicates an affinity with a particular driving behavior associated with the segment of the travel path.

In one embodiment the level of affinity is determined by the estimation platform in order to associate the current behavior trace with a single best matching behavior trace associated with the segment of the path of travel. For example in the case where a segment of the travel path is associated with a first cluster of driving information for indicating CONTINUED DRIVING behavior and a second cluster of driving information for indicating EXIT SLIGHT RIGHT behavior the estimation platform may select the EXIT SLIGHT RIGHT behavior as the best match to the current driving information based on an extent of matching of curvature acceleration pattern movement or other driving characteristics. Under this scenario the level of affinity may correspond to a likelihood probability that a driving behavior of the vehicle is related to a known driving behavior for the corresponding segment of the travel path.

In one embodiment when a high accuracy shape behavior match exists the estimation platform determines an amount by which the estimated position of the vehicle along the travel path e.g. a distance or degree must be adjusted in order for the current and expected driving behavior traces to match. The amount corresponds to a offset which may include an amount of longitudinal distance an amount of latitudinal distance a geospatial coordinate shift a time variance or a combination thereof. The offset may correspond to an amount required for the estimation platform to adjust the estimated position by in order to align the current driving behavior with the expected historical driving behavior. Under this scenario the historical driving behavior serves as a reference point and or corresponding reference data cluster set e.g. curvature acceleration tilt for evaluating current driving activity.

In one embodiment the estimation platform may also assign a confidence score to the estimated position of the vehicle upon analyzing the driving information for the vehicle. Under this scenario the confidence score may be assigned based on how well the behavior trace matches or has affinity with a previously determined behavior trace associated with the segment of the travel path. For example if the shape of a behavior trace for a vehicle matches a historic behavior trace of the vehicle and there is little offset e.g. to within a predetermined threshold a high confidence score is assigned to the current vehicle position. In contrast if the behavior traces do not match well the estimation platform assigns a low confidence score to the estimated position.

In one embodiment the estimation platform adjusts the estimated position of the vehicle accordingly based on the determined offset. This may include for example replacing or updating the original estimated position of the vehicle with the adjusted estimated position in order to compensate for behavior dynamics associated with the segment of the travel path. As such the estimation platform establishes and or corrects the position based on behavior dynamics i.e. movement type and or maneuver pattern matching rather than physical object and or road geometry matching. Similarly the estimation platform establishes and or corrects the estimated position of the vehicle based on the level of affinity between the current behavior trace and at least one best matching behavior of the segment of the travel path.

In one embodiment the estimation platform initiates various actions based on the corrected position. By way of example the estimation platform may cause updated mapping information and associated display elements representative of the vehicle and or travel path to be rendered to the display of the UE . This may correspond to a change in the location of various icons for depicting the position or location of the vehicle relative to an image of the travel path as a result of a correction. As another example the estimation platform may cause a message to be displayed to the display of the UE for specifying the corrected position. This message in certain instances may be presented in conjunction with the updated mapping information and or display elements. It is noted that the message may also specify a confidence score in association with the estimated position of the vehicle.

As another example the lane assigned to a vehicle based on the estimated position of the vehicle may be adapted to reflect an adjustment to the estimated position. Still further the estimation platform may generate an instruction to correct a driving maneuver of the vehicle based on the correction. Under this scenario the instruction may be submitted the UE for affecting an autonomous driving capability of the vehicle. For example a driving maneuver to be performed by a navigation system e.g. UE for exiting a highway at a certain time may be adapted based on a corrected estimated position for indicating the vehicle actually has fewer seconds available to proceed to the exit lane. Under this scenario the estimation platform adapts the navigation instruction to cause the vehicle to take the next exit.

Still further the estimation platform may also match a current behavior trace of a vehicle to a historic behavior trace for the segment of the travel path in order to distinguish and or verify a travel path being used by the vehicle. For example when a vehicle is near an exit ramp or a road split there may be one or more links available for use by the vehicle. In the case where the actual road taken is ambiguous due to GPS position uncertainty the current vehicle s behavior trace may be compared to the historic behavior traces for ALL possible connected travel paths. Hence the estimation platform may account for the interconnection of respective links and therefore behaviors relative to the travel path.

It is noted that the estimation platform may be configured to operate in connection with any known navigation system for enabling the initiation of instructions to be executed by the vehicle by a driver of the vehicle or a combination thereof. This may include for example autonomous vehicles having an embedded UE . Under this scenario the autonomous vehicle may communicate with other autonomous vehicles configured to interact with the estimation platform . As such the estimation platform may determine optimal driving behaviors and or responses for the vehicles based on current sensor information coordinate driving maneuvers for the vehicles or the like with respect to a current or next segment of a travel path navigated by the vehicles.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UEs estimation platform the service platform and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database contains travel path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths vehicular paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data.

The road link segments and nodes may be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic database may include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database may also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data may be part of the POI data such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city. In addition the geographic database may include data about location based events and their respective locations in the event data records . By way of example the location based events include any type of event that is associated with a particular location including for instance traffic accidents construction public gatherings etc.

In one embodiment the geographic database may include trajectory data records for determining trajectory paths through a transportation structure. For example the traversal data records may include sensor data collected from UEs that contain location traces through one or more transportation structures. The traversal data records may also store the baseline paths determined by the estimation platform as well as the results of classifying other location traces with respect to the baseline paths. In yet another embodiment the traversal data records include the results of additional analytics for indicating the flow of traffic through transportation structures the volume of traffic flows through the structures and the like. In some embodiments the traversal data records can be further segmented or categorized according to one or more contextual parameters e.g. temporal parameters mode of transport parameters vehicle type .

The geographic database may be maintained by the content provider e.g. a map developer or the provider of the services . By way of example the content providers or service providers may employ different approaches for generating and or storing the geographic data. This may include for example obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the providers may employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout a geographic region in order to observe features and or record information descriptive of a travel path its surrounding environment etc. Also the providers may employ remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography.

The geographic database may be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database may be generated according to an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database may be compiled into a delivery format such as a GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats may be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which may be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation system. The navigation related functions may correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases may be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer may perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the database may be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the database may represent a compiled navigation database that may be used in or with UE to provide navigation or map related functions. For example the database may be used with the UE to provide a vehicle with navigation features. In such a case the database may be downloaded or stored on the UE or the UE may access the database through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or network .

In one embodiment the UE may be an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the UE is a cellular telephone for executing the application to present guidance information and map displays. It is contemplated in future embodiments that the cellular telephone may be interfaced with an on board navigation system of an autonomous vehicle or physically connected to the vehicle for serving as the navigation system.

The authentication module authenticates users and UE for interaction with the estimation platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to access the estimation platform via an application . The request may be submitted to the authentication module via the communication module which enables an interface between the navigation application and the platform . In addition the authentication module may receive a first time subscription request from a UE a request to store a profile at database a permission message validating consent by a UE to share contextual information with the platform or a combination thereof. It is noted that the authentication module may further be configured to support and or validate the formation of profile by a provider of a service or content provider i.e. for supporting integration of the behavior characteristic information with other types of data.

The processing module operates in connection with the context module to interpret driving information associated with one or more vehicles as they navigate a travel path. The context module gathers the sensor information generated by the sensors of the UE for specifying the acceleration curvature tilt velocity driving mode brake pressure etc. In response the processing module evaluates this information against various criteria. The criteria may include for example variance thresholds discrepancy factors and other metrics that when fulfilled indicate a driving behavior to associate with the vehicle and the corresponding segment of the travel path. In addition the processing module identifies a best match behavior to associate with the vehicle per the segment of the travel path being used by the vehicle. This may include for example comparing data points comprising the current driving behavior real time driving information to identify a matching pattern movement maneuver shape etc. with a historical driving behavior historical driving information . It is noted that this enables the processing module to determine which of the possible behaviors associated with a single segment of the travel path is best related to the current driving behavior exhibited by the vehicle.

The processing module may also determine an offset between the current driving behavior associated with the vehicle for the given segment of the travel path and a historical driving behavior associated with other vehicles that have traveled the same segment. Under this scenario the processing module determines the offset e.g. amount of difference between the current estimated position of the vehicle and an expected estimated position of the vehicle. The offset may correspond to a longitudinal distance a latitudinal distance a geospatial coordinate shift a time variance or a combination thereof.

The execution module corrects the estimated position of the vehicle based on the determined offset. This may include for example replacing the original estimated position of the vehicle with the corrected estimated position in order to compensate for behavior dynamics associated with the segment of the travel path. As such the estimation platform establishes and or corrects the position based on movement type and or maneuver pattern matching rather than physical object and or road geometry matching.

The execution module may also operate in connection with the communication module and user interface module to cause the transmission or rendering of an instruction respectively. By way of example the execution module may trigger the user interface module which executes one or more application programming interface API executions of the platform for presenting the segments of the travel path the associated behavior and or response types etc. This may include presenting the corrected position or a representation thereof to the display of the navigation system. As another example the execution module may trigger the communication module to transmit an instruction for initiating a behavior and or response of the vehicle based on the corrected estimated position. It is further noted that the user interface module may operate in connection with the communication module to facilitate the exchange of navigation information via the communication network with respect to the services content providers and applications .

The above presented modules and components of the estimation platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . As such the estimation platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UEs as a platform cloud based service or combination thereof.

In step of process the estimation platform processes and or facilitates a processing of driving information associated with a vehicle mapping information associated with a segment of a travel path in use by the vehicle or a combination thereof to determine a behavior trace to associate with the vehicle. As noted previously the driving information may include acceleration information velocity information heading information bearing information orientation information curvature information distance information turn information tilt information location marker information steering information brake usage information wiper usage information headlight usage information navigation system usage information stereo system usage information vehicle state information or a combination thereof.

In another step the platform determines a behavior trace associated with one or more other vehicles that used the segment of the travel path the segment of the travel path or a combination thereof to determine a match between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles relative to the segment of the travel path. As noted previously the driving information may be correlated with a behavior trace based on evaluation criteria pattern matching analysis or the like.

Per step the estimation platform determines an offset between the behavior trace of the vehicle and the behavior trace of the one or more other vehicles based on the match. As mentioned previously the offset includes a shape differential an amount of longitudinal distance an amount of latitudinal distance a geospatial coordinate shift a time variance or a combination thereof.

In step of process the estimation platform compares the behavior trace associated with the vehicle against the behavior trace information associated with the one or more other vehicles. In step the platform determines a level of affinity between the behavior trace associated with the vehicle and the behavior trace associated with the one or more other vehicles. The adjustment of the estimated position is performed based on the level of affinity. As noted previously the affinity level may correspond to a probability or likelihood of match between the current driving behavior and at least one historic driving behavior associated with the segment of the travel path. Also the level of affinity may correspond to the extent of shape matching between behavior traces wherein a high level of affinity indicates a close match of the current driving behavior to a known behavior classification for a segment of the travel path.

Once the affinity is determined the amount of offset between the driving information for the current versus the historic driving information need only be determined. In this way the expected driving behavior serves as a reference point and or corresponding reference data cluster set e.g. curvature acceleration tilt for evaluating current driving activity. It is noted that the behavior trace corresponds to a pattern of movements maneuvers responses or a combination thereof of the vehicle the one or more other vehicles or a combination thereof with respect to the segment of the travel path the other travel path or a combination thereof over a period of time.

Per step the estimation platform adjusts the estimated position of the vehicle relative to the travel path based on the offset. The amount of offset may include an amount of longitudinal distance an amount of latitudinal distance a geospatial coordinate shift a time variance or a combination thereof. By way of example in the case where the current behavior trace distance information is offset from the historical behavior trace for the segment of the travel path by 10 meters the adjustment to the estimated position of the vehicle is 10 meters. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that an adjustment factor may be applied to the offset for translating the offset across different measurement types action types road segments etc.

In another step the estimation platform causes at least in part a a rendering of updated mapping information b a rendering of updated display elements representative of the vehicle the travel path or a combination thereof c a rendering of a message to the display for specifying the adjustment d a generating of an instruction to correct a driving maneuver of the vehicle or e a combination thereof based on the correction. It is noted that the amount of the offset may translate into an amount mode or means of rendering of content and or execution of a generated instruction.

In step of process the estimation platform compares the behavior trace associated with the vehicle against one or more behavior traces associated with another travel path that is nearby or connected to the segment of the travel path. In another step the platform determines a match between the behavior trace associated with the vehicle and at least one of the one or more behavior traces associated with the other travel path. Per step the platform further determines an estimated position of the vehicle relative to the other travel path based on the match. By way of example in the case where a vehicle is traveling along a roadway that splits into two separate links the estimation platform may adjust or determine the estimated position of the vehicle based behavior trace information regarding one of the split links. Under this approach the estimation platform identifies 

In step of process the estimation platform processes and or facilitates a processing of location information associated with the vehicle to determine the mapping information associated with the segment of the travel path. As noted previously the mapping information is associated with at least one expected driving behavior trace. This may include storing the mapping information with the behavior trace or classifications thereof to the geographic database the trace database etc. Alternatively the mapping information may specify a reference or link to the expected driving behavior as classified within the trace database . Under this scenario for example the content providers or provider of the services may reference the trace database in response to a navigation request.

In step the estimation platform corrects a lane assignment of the vehicle relative to the segment of the travel path based on the offset. By way of example an estimated position of the vehicle for indicating the vehicle is in a first lane of a highway may be corrected to indicate the vehicle is in a second lane based on the offset amount thereof . As noted previously this correction may be further translated into an updated rendering of mapping information and associated graphic elements for representing the vehicle in the correct lane relative to the travel path.

In a segment of a travel path is in use by a vehicle as represented in block form. At a certain point along the segment of the travel path the vehicle moves from a first lane labeled A to a second lane labeled B corresponding to a movement pattern or maneuver type . The movement pattern or maneuver type corresponds to various actions performed by the vehicle and or driver for a given distance time period including an acceleration or deceleration rate a curvature or turn trajectory brake pressure application etc. Consequently various sensors of the vehicle and or the navigation system record these actions for the duration or extent of the travel path as driving information. This driving information is then transmitted to the estimation platform by the navigation system of the vehicle and subsequently monitored by the estimation platform . In addition mapping information corresponding to the location of the vehicle and the segment of the travel path is retrieved accordingly. It is noted that the position of the vehicle as shown represents a current estimated position of the vehicle relative to the segment of the travel path i.e. the perceived position of the vehicle according to the navigation system.

Upon receiving the driving information the estimation platform determines one or more driving behaviors traces and are associated with the segment of the travel path corresponding to the retrieved mapping information. Under this scenario the mapping information may include or make reference to the behavior trace database for retrieving the historical behavior traces. By way of example the distinct behaviors and are shown in vector line trace form in for representing the plurality of driving trace points collected in association with other vehicles that traveled the travel path over a period of time over a distance range etc.

Once determined the estimation platform analyzes the current driving behavior trace against the historical driving behavior traces and . The analysis may include for example shape and or form matching the current behavior trace to the historical behavior traces and to determine a level of affinity between the current behavior trace and at least one of the historical traces. Under this scenario a best match driving behavior is determined between the current behavior trace and historic behavior trace as depicted in . Trace corresponds to the second history cluster data set behavior type associated with the travel path. As depicted herein it also best matches the shape behavior of the real time behavior trace for the vehicle.

It is noted that the affinity may be determined based on evaluation criteria comparative data analysis techniques etc. In the case where the behavior traces match exactly highest affinity the estimation platform is able to determine the current behavior pattern matches the historical pattern. Under this scenario the estimation platform concludes that the current estimated position of the vehicle is accurate. While described herein as shape and or form matching it is noted that the best match corresponds to a matching of respective driving trace points e.g. acceleration curvature distance brake application vehicle status etc. over the course of time over a distance range traveled etc.

In the case where the behavior traces are shifted offset but otherwise have a similar shape some affinity the estimation platform determines the amount of shift offset . It then adjusts corrects the estimated position of the vehicle accordingly based on the amount of offset i.e. a longitudinal distance a coordinate shift applied to the behavior trace of the vehicle. In the case however where the behavior traces appear unrelated i.e. no affinity or shape match no adjustment is made to the estimated position as the associated behavior for the segment of the travel path is unrecognized.

In the estimation platform determines an amount of offset e.g. shift between the current driving trace and the historic best matching driving trace . The offset is depicted herein by a line which represents an amount of longitudinal latitudinal geospatial or positional shift required to correct the estimated position of the vehicle. Hence the offset indicates the vehicle has a positioning error and the extent of offset correlates to the extent of error. Under this scenario the offset is determined to be 50 meters.

To improve correct the estimated position of the vehicle the estimation platform then adjusts the current estimated position by the offset amount of 50 meters. This is represented in as a shifting offsetting of the current behavior trace to match or overlap the historic driving trace . The shifted behavior trace is shown as line . The effect of this shift is depicted in which shows the initial estimated position of the vehicle being adjusted by the offset amount of 50 meters as represented by line . It is noted that the adjustment may correspond to an updating of mapping information and corresponding display elements for depicting the vehicle to a display of the navigation system. Also various messages may be rendered to the display for indicating the correction.

The processes described herein for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to determine a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to determine a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of determining a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to determine a position of a vehicle relative to a travel path based on driving behavior. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

