---

title: Systems and methods for providing information regarding future content
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can determine a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user. Examples of content items previously published by the entity are selected. Information is provided to assist the user in a determination about whether to assent to provision of content items published by the entity for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560154&OS=09560154&RS=09560154
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09560154
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141211
---
The present technology relates to the field of communications. More particularly the present technology relates to techniques for providing information regarding future content.

Today people utilize computing devices or systems for various purposes. Users can use their computing devices to interact with one another access content share content and create content. A user can utilize his or her computing device to interact with a social networking system or service such as by providing viewing or otherwise accessing information through the social networking system. In some cases the social networking system can provide an interface or medium for users of the social networking system to communicate with one another.

In one example an organization that publishes content may become a user of the social networking system. Another user of the social networking system may interact with the organization in ways typical of communication between any users of a social networking system. For example the communications between the organization and the user may be direct leveraging for example email or instant messaging as the desired communication vehicle. As another example the communications between the organization and the user may be indirect. In this regard the user may learn about content published by the organization on the social networking system by visiting a page of the social networking system associated with the organization. Another indirect mode of communication may involve automatically conveying posts by the organization in a feed provided to the user to apprise the user of the availability of content.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to determine a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user. Examples of content items previously published by the entity are selected. Information is provided to assist the user in a determination about whether to assent to provision of content items published by the entity for the user.

In an embodiment the provision of content items published by the entity for the user is to a feed associated with the user.

In an embodiment the information to assist a user in a determination about whether to assent to provision of content items published by the entity for the user includes the frequency by which content items published by the entity are to be provided for the user and the examples of content items previously published by the entity.

In an embodiment the information to assist a user in a determination about whether to assent to provision of content items published by the entity for the user further includes at least one media type and at least one topic of the content items published by the entity.

In an embodiment the determining a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user is based at least in part on at least one of historical publication of content items by the entity historical engagement by a general audience with a page associated with the entity quality of content items and other feed inventory of the user.

In an embodiment the determining a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user includes assigning values to each of the at least one of historical publication of content items by the entity historical engagement by a general audience with a page associated with the entity quality of content items and other feed inventory of the user.

In an embodiment the determining a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user further includes assigning a weight to each of the values to result in weighted values.

In an embodiment the determining a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user further includes aggregating the weighted values to determine the frequency.

In an embodiment the selecting examples of content items previously published by the entity is based at least in part on at least one of most recent content items published by the entity most typical content items published by the entity and content items published by the entity most relevant to the user.

In an embodiment the selecting examples of content items previously published by the entity includes identifying a set of candidate content items from each of most recent content items published by the entity most typical content items published by the entity and content items published by the entity most relevant to the user.

In an embodiment the selecting examples of content items previously published by the entity further includes assigning values to each of the candidate content items in each set of candidate content items.

In an embodiment the selecting examples of content items previously published by the entity further includes assigning a weight to each of the values associated with a candidate content item to result in weighted values the weight based on an association between the content item and one of the most recent content items published by the entity the most typical content items published by the entity and the content items published by the entity most relevant to the user ranking the weighted values to create a subset of highest ranking content items and assigning the highest ranking content items as the examples of content items for display to the user.

In an embodiment at least one media type of the content items published by the entity is determined wherein determination of the at least one media type is based on a previous posting history of the entity and a category to which the entity belongs. At least one topic of the content items published by the entity is determined wherein determination of the at least one topic of the content items published by the entity is based on historical topics of content items previously published by the entity.

In an embodiment the preview screen includes an identification section to identify the entity a description section to display information including at least one of the frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user at least one media type of the content items published by the entity and at least one topic of the content items published by the entity and an examples section to display the examples of content items previously published by the entity.

In an embodiment the information displayed in the description section is changed. The information displayed in the identification section and the examples section is maintained.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the disclosed technology for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein.

People use social networking systems or services for a wide variety of purposes. Users of a social networking system can utilize their computing devices or systems to establish connections communicate and interact with one another via the social networking system. Users of the social networking system can also create access and share various types of content. The social networking system can provide an interface or medium through which news messages information and all types of content are transmitted.

An entity e.g. organization group individual etc. that publishes or otherwise provides content may become a user of the social networking system. Interactions between the entity and another user of the social networking system may mirror communication between any users of a social networking system. For example the communications between the entity and another user may be direct leveraging for example email or instant messaging as the desired communication vehicle. In particular content may be directly communicated from the entity to the other user. As another example the communications between the entity and the user may be indirect. In this regard the user may learn about content published by the entity on the social networking system by visiting a page of the social networking system associated with the entity. Another indirect mode of communication may involve leveraging a feed of the user to provide content or an indication thereof e.g. a link to the content from the entity to the user.

Content provided by the entity may be included in the feed of the user upon assent by the user. In some circumstances the social networking system may determine that the entity or its content and the user share have a relationship or share affinity sufficient to invite the user to receive content provided by the entity in the feed of the user. For example the invitation may take the form of a suggestion provided to the user to receive content published on a page associated with the entity. If the user accepts the invitation the social networking system may provide in the feed of the user the content published by the entity.

Such provision of content can have many drawbacks. The invitation to receive content in the feed of a user provides little information about the entity and the type of content normally published on its page. From the perspective of the user the content provided to the user accordingly may not align with the interests of the user. In addition the frequency of the content provided to the user may conflict with expectations of the user. For example the user may desire in her feed only occasional notices about content published by the entity. If the entity is especially prolific in publishing content and if the social networking system provides all content published by the entity in the feed of the user the user will be subjected to a suboptimal experience. From the perspective of the entity it can be important to create excitement and interest in the content published by it. The provision of content to an audience that is not likely to enjoy it accordingly undermines the goals of the entity.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome the shortcomings associated with the provision of content items e.g. content references to content links to content summaries of content etc. in the feeds of users in the conventional manner. In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure content items published or otherwise provided by an entity can be suggested to a user in a more effective manner. In particular the user may be provided specific information e.g. a preview regarding what the user may expect to see in her feed if the user indicates support for e.g. likes a particular page associated with the entity. In some implementations descriptions and examples of posts or publications that the user may potentially encounter in the feed of the user may be provided.

A description of the content items to be potentially included in the feed of the user can be provided. A number of posted content items or posts from the page of the entity that the user can expect to see in her feed can be estimated and presented to the user. In some cases the estimated number can be determined by taking into account the overall historical engagement for the entity or associated page the quality and volume of content items posted by the entity and the amount of other feed information provided to the user. Further at least one media type associated with typical posts of the entity and at least one topic associated with typical posts by the entity can be provided. Accordingly the estimated number of content items the media type s of the content items and the topics of the content items can be included in the description. In some instances the description can take the form of an automatically generated statement about the entity and the content items published by it.

Moreover example content items provided by the entity can be presented to the user. In some instances the example content items can be of the same media type e.g. articles photos videos etc. as those typically posted by the entity. The example content items can be selected from the most recent content items posted by the entity the most typical content items posted by the entity and in relation to the user the overall best e.g. most relevant most popular etc. content items posted by the entity. The description and the example content items can be provided to the user to enable the user to make an informed decision regarding whether or not to support the entity and its page and accordingly receive content items published by the entity in the feed of the user.

The content description module can be configured to determine a description of content items provided by the entity. The description may include one or more of an identification of an entity of which content items may be provided to a user through her feed an estimated frequency or frequency range with which the user may expect to receive content items in her feed an identification of the media type and the topics of the content items and representations of examples of the content items. The description of content items may be provided in a preview screen inviting the user to accept receipt of content items from the entity. The content description module is discussed in more detail herein.

The examples determination module can be configured to determine examples to be provided to a user in the preview screen. The examples determination module can determine the media type of the examples of content items to be provided to the user. Possible media types include but are not limited to articles photos and video. The media type of the examples of the content items can be selected based on for example the previous posting history of the entity and the category to which the entity belongs. The examples determination module also can be configured to select examples of content items to be displayed in the preview screen. The selection of examples can be based on the most recent content items posted by the entity the most typical content items posted by the entity and content items most optimal for presentation to the user. The examples determination module is discussed in more detail herein.

The content frequency determination module can be configured to determine an estimated frequency or frequency range by which content items are to be delivered to a user through her feed. The content frequency determination module can include a historical posting and engagement module a quality and volume module a feed inventory module and an aggregator module . The historical posting and engagement module can be configured to determine the magnitude of posting activity by the entity and the general level of engagement between users and a page associated with the entity. With respect to the magnitude of posting activity by the entity the historical posting and engagement module may determine how many posts the entity has made in a given period of time. The historical posting and engagement module may determine an estimate of a future magnitude of total posting activity by the entity in a given period of time based on historical values.

With respect to the general level of engagement between users and a page associated with the entity the historical posting and engagement module may obtain interaction data associated with the page associated with the entity. The page may reflect all or some of the content items posted by the entity for consumption by the users. The general level of engagement reflects interactions between users and the entity without undue focus on any one particular content item. For example the general level of engagement can be based on one or more of a total number of views of the page associated with the entity a total number of subscriptions by users to the page a number of likes associated with the page or specific content items thereof a number of shares by users of the page or specific content items thereof etc. Other suitable metrics reflecting engagement levels between users and the page may be used.

The quality and volume module can be configured to determine a quality level of a particular content item. The quality level reflects the appeal or popularity of a particular content item. For example the quality level can be based on one or more metrics including but not limited to a number of views of the content item a number of likes associated with the content item a number of shares by users of the page or specific content items thereof etc. In some instances a higher quality level for a content item may result from a higher value of the foregoing metrics and a lower quality level for a content item may result from a lower value of the foregoing metrics.

Further the quality and volume module can determine a volume or concentration of appeal with respect to the content item. The quality level of the content item accordingly can be further based on the volume or concentration of appeal with respect to the content item. For example if it is determined that a first content item has been viewed by 45 of the total audience for the page of the entity and a second content item has been viewed by 5 of the total audience for the page of the entity the quality and volume module may determine that the first content item should have a higher quality level. Likewise as another example if it is determined that a first content item has been viewed by 85 of the total audience for the page of the entity and a second content item has been viewed by 15 of the total audience for the page of the entity the quality and volume module may determine that the second content item should have a lower quality level.

The feed inventory module can be configured to account for feed activity other than the provision of content items from the entity if the user accepts the invitation to receive such content items. For example myriad rules based on for example the affinity between the user and other organizations of the social networking system and user preferences regarding content items desired for the feed may influence or dictate the type and amount of content items to be provided to the user in her feed. As another example a constraint may dictate that a certain maximum number of content items may be presented in a feed of the user in a predetermined period of time. The constraint may reflect a preference not to overwhelm the user with an undue number of content items so as to preserve a positive user experience. These examples of rules and a constraint relating to the presentation of content items in the feed may impact the frequency with which content items from the entity can be delivered to the user. The feed inventory module may account for these rules and constraints in determining the frequency with which to provide content items from the entity in the feed of the user.

For example assume the user has strong connections e.g. high affinities with many other organizations that publish content and that the user has already assented to receiving content items from these organizations in her feed. Assume further that these connections are stronger than her connection with the entity. In this example fewer of the content items of the entity may be provided to the user in her feed because the user may wish to receive more content items from the organizations with which she enjoys stronger connections.

As another example assume that the user has few connections and accordingly the content items delivered to her are relatively few. In this example more or all of the content items of the entity may be provided to the user in her feed because there is ample capacity in her feed to accommodate the content items.

The aggregator module can be configured to account for the determinations in the historical posting and engagement module the quality and volume module and the feed inventory module to determine a frequency or frequency range by which to deliver content items of the entity to the feed of the user. In some embodiments the aggregator module can determine or assign a numerical value to each determination of the historical posting and engagement module the quality and volume module and the feed inventory module . Each of the numerical values can be multiplied by a weighting factor to result in a weighted value. The weighted values can be aggregated to determine an aggregate number informing the frequency by which content items of the entity should be provided to the user. The determined frequency should not be greater than the estimate of the magnitude of total posting activity by the entity.

For example a value may be appropriately assigned to each determination of the historical posting and engagement module the quality and volume module and the feed inventory module with greater values indicating the propriety of a relatively higher frequency or frequency range by which to provide content items to the user. Based on the importance of each determination of the historical posting and engagement module the quality and volume module and the feed inventory module a weighting factor can be multiplied to each value to produce weighted values. The weighted values then could be aggregated e.g. summed and divided by a normalizing value . The aggregate value could be multiplied with the estimate of the magnitude of total posting activity by the entity to result in the determination of a frequency by which to provide content items of the entity in the feed of the user. The determination of the frequency by which to provide content items in the feed of the user can be based on other quantitative or qualitative techniques involving one or more of the historical posting and engagement module the quality and volume module and the feed inventory module .

The media type and topic determination module can be configured to determine a media type and topics relating to the content items to be provided to the feed of the user. The media type and topic determination module can include a media type determination module and a historical content module . The media type determination module can determine the media type that the entity typically has published in the past. For example the media type determination module can determine that if the entity is a newspaper the media type of the content items published by the entity is largely articles. As another example the media type determination module can determine that if the entity is a provider of online movies the media type of the content items published by the entity is largely videos.

The media type determination module may also use a category to which the entity is assigned to determine the media type of content items published by the entity. In some embodiments entities of the social networking system are systematically categorized according to their profiles interests activities and other attributes. In some instances the entities may assign themselves to categories. In other instances the entities may be assigned to categories by others e.g. connections polling the social networking system etc. . The category to which an entity is assigned may inform the typical media type s of its content items. For example when the entity is a local newspaper it may fall into the category of periodicals which is associated with the media type of articles. As another example when the entity is wall calendar designer the entity may fall into the category of print publishers which is associated with the media type of photos.

The historical content module can help to determine the topics of the content items that the entity typically has historically published. The topics can be of any subject matter or theme in which content items can be categorized. For example the historical content module can determine that the entity has consistently published content items on topics such as oceans water recreation and ecological awareness. Historical topics can be determined by one or more conventional techniques such as topic tagging. Topic tagging as an example can involve the use of contextual information surrounding a content item e.g. the identities and profiles of users who interact with the content item comments provided in relation to the content item etc. to infer the topic of the content item. The determination of historical topics can be used to predict future topics of the content items published by the entity.

The message construction module can be configured to construct one or more messages describing the content items to be provided to the user in her feed. The message construction module can be based at least in part on the determination of a frequency by the content frequency determination module with which content items are to be provided in the feed of the user a determination of media type s of the content items by the media type and topic determination module and a determination of topics of the content items by the medial type and topic determination module . The message construction module may design templates for one or more messages that can incorporate the determination of a frequency by the content frequency determination module with which content items are to be provided in the feed of the user a determination of media type s of the content items by the media type and topic determination module and a determination of topics of the content items by the medial type and topic determination module .

For example the message construction module may construct two messages to be presented to the user in an alternating sequence. The first message may relate to the frequency by which the content items are to be provided in the feed of the user. For instance the message construction module may design a message template with the following format number of posts in your feed each week where the number of estimated posts of content items by the entity is inserted into the blank. The second message may relate to the media type s and the topics of the content items to be provided in the feed of the user. For instance the message construction module may design a message template with the following format entity name posts media type about topic 1 topic 2 topic 3 . . . where the name of the entity is inserted into the first blank the media type s of content items published by the entity is inserted into the second blank and topics of the content items are inserted into the third fourth and fifth blanks. When the blanks are completed with appropriate information such messages can be presented to the user in the preview screen to inform the user about the content items that she potentially can receive. Other suitable types of templates and messages can be generated by the message construction module and presented to the user to describe the content items that will be potentially provided to the user in her feed.

The examples selection module can select examples of content items of the media type determined by the media type determination module . The examples selection module can include a most recent module a most typical module a user optimal module and an aggregator and ranking module . The most recent module can determine the content items of the desired media type most recently published by the entity. The most typical module can determine the content items of the desired media type most typical of the content items published by the entity.

The user optimal module can determine the content items of the desired media type that are most desirable or relevant to the user. The determination of optimal content items can be based on a variety of considerations such as the recency of the posting of the content item the prior engagement level of the user with the topic associated with content item and the general audience engagement with the content item.

With the respect to recency the user optimal module can identify for consideration content items previously published by the entity that are most recent. Most recent content items are more likely to be relevant to the user and less likely to be considered stale. In some instances the most recent content items may be selected based on a predetermined threshold duration of time before the time at which the preview screen is to be shown to the user. Content items that fall within the threshold duration may be candidates for provision to the user. Content items that fall outside the threshold duration are excluded from consideration.

With respect to the prior engagement level of the user the user optimal module can identify for consideration content items published by the entity that are associated with topics with which the user has had high levels of engagement or otherwise shown significant interest. For example the user may have a history of reviewing content items from various sources relating to certain topics. As another example the activity of the user may reflect a strong trend to like content items of a certain topic. As yet another example the strongest connections with the user in the social networking system may have significant levels of engagement with pages associated with certain topics. When topics of special interest can be discerned in these and other manners the user optimal module may select content items of the entity that are associated with the topics as example content items to be presented in the preview screen.

With respect to general audience engagement the user optimal module can identify for consideration content items previously published by the entity that met with widespread appeal from a general audience of users. In many instances the more a general audience of users consumed a content item the more likely the user will desire to consume the content item. For example the user optimal module may provide a threshold number of views of the content items likes of the content item shares of the content item etc. If any content item satisfies the threshold number the user optimal module may select the content item for presentation in the preview screen for the user.

The aggregator and ranking module can select a subset of content items from the set of content items identified by the most recent module the most typical module and the user optimal module . The selection of the subset of content items can be provided in the preview screen as examples of content items of the entity. The selection of the subset may be performed according to a number of techniques. For example a numerical value can be assigned to each content item identified by the most recent module the most typical module and the user optimal module . The numerical value may reflect the relevance or desirability of the content item to the user. Further in this example the numerical values can be weighted according to the importance of the most recent module the most typical module and the user optimal module relative to one another. The aggregator and ranking module can then rank the content items by their weighted values and select a predetermined number of the highest ranking content items to be shown as examples in the preview screen. Other suitable techniques to select a subset of content items from the set of identified content items are possible.

In some embodiments the preview screen or information provided in the preview screen can be presented to the user in any context to invite the user to receive in her feed content items of an entity. For example a preview screen like the preview screen the preview screen or preview screen may appear in connection with a page suggestion. The page suggestion can serve as an invitation for the user to increase her engagement level with a previously unknown or seldom visited page associated with an entity. As another example the preview screen or information provided in the preview screen can be provided to the user when the user first visits a new page. During that visit or a subsequent visit the user may be presented with information about for example the identity of the entity the frequency by which content items of the entity will be provided in the feed of the user the media types of the content items and the topics of the content items. The user may be prompted to assent to the provision of content items of the entity in the feed of the user. As yet another example the preview screen or information provided in the preview screen may be presented to a user engaged in dialogue e.g. comments email instant messaging etc. when it is observed that the entity is subject matter of the dialogue.

At block the example method can determine a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user. At block the example method can select examples of content items previously published by the entity. At block the example method can provide information to assist the user in a determination about whether to assent to future provision of content items published by the entity for the user. In some embodiments the steps of the method can be performed by the modules depicted in other figures of the present disclosure as described in more detailed herein.

At block the example method can determine a frequency by which content items published by an entity are to be provided for a user. At block the example method can determine at least one media type of the content items published by the entity. At block the example method can determine at least one topic of the content items published by the entity. At block the example method can select examples of content items previously published by the entity. At block the example method can provide information to assist the user in a determination about whether to assent to future provision of content items published by the entity for the user. In some embodiments the steps of the method can be performed by the modules depicted in other figures of the present disclosure as described in more detailed herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

In some embodiments the social networking system can include an expected content module . The expected content module can for example be implemented as the expected content module of . The expected content module can provide information to assist a user to determine whether or not to assent to the provision of content items published by an entity in the feed of the user. The information may include an identification of the entity the frequency by which the content items will be provided in the feed of the user the media types of the content items the topics of the content items and examples of content items previously published by the entity to suggest the types of content items that would be provided to the user in the future. Other features of the expected content module are discussed herein in connection with the verified expected content module .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Moreover the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

