---

title: Facilitating security enforcement for shared content
abstract: Systems and methods that relate to security enforcement for shared content are described. A system includes an interface component that facilitates a display of information indicative of an option to select a defined level of security for a first subset of content of a plurality of content, wherein the defined level of security is indicative of a first type of secure environment. The first type of secure environment can be a hypertext transfer secure (HTTPS) environment or any environment in which content is encrypted prior to transmission over the Internet. A security component determines an association between the first subset of content and the defined level of security; and generates decision information to facilitate output, to a device, of the first subset of content associated with the defined level of security based on a determination that the device provides the first type of secure environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443065&OS=09443065&RS=09443065
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09443065
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140117
---
With advances in modern technology numerous different types of content can be processed and or provided to users via the Internet. Further there is an increasing desire to efficiently and reliably disseminate sensitive content to users in various locations. Accordingly security of content transmitted over the Internet is of utmost importance.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Systems and methods in this disclosure relate to processing that facilitates security enforcement for shared content. In one embodiment a system includes a memory storing computer executable components and a processor configured to execute the following computer executable components stored in the memory. The components include an interface component that facilitates a display of information indicative of an option to select a defined level of security for a first subset of content of a plurality of content wherein the defined level of security is indicative of a first type of secure environment. The components also include a security component that determines an association between the first subset of content of the plurality of content and the defined level of security.

In one embodiment a method includes determining by a first device including a processor information indicative of selection of an option associated with a defined level of security for a first subset of content of a plurality of content wherein the defined level of security is indicative of a first type of secure environment and determining an association between the first subset of content of the plurality of content with an indicator indicative of the defined level of security. For example the first device can be a secure content component as described herein. The first subset of content can be restricted to playback on devices that provide the first type of secure environment. For example the first subset of content can be restricted to playback on devices that provide the HTTPS environment.

In another embodiment another method is provided. The method includes determining by a first device including a processor that a first subset of content of a plurality of content is viewable at a second device based on a determination that the second device provides a first type of secure environment wherein the first subset of content is associated with information identifying the first type of secure environment. The method also includes generating decision information to facilitate outputting to the second device the first subset of content based on a determination of whether the second device provides a first type of secure environment. For example the first device can be a secure content component as described herein and the second device can be a user device requesting content via the Internet for playback at the user device. As used in this disclosure the term user e.g. user device can refer to a person entity system or combination thereof.

In another embodiment another method is provided. The method includes receiving by a first device including a processor information indicative of a defined level of security for content originating from a defined internet domain name wherein the defined level of security is indicative of a first type of secure environment and associating the subset of content with an indicator indicative of the defined level of security. For example the first device can be a secure content component as described herein.

In another embodiment another method is provided. The method includes determining by a first device including a processor information indicative of selection of a first option associated with a defined controlled access parameter applicable to a subset of content of a plurality of content and determining an association between the subset of content and the defined controlled access parameter.

In another embodiment another method is provided. The method includes determining by a first device including a processor that content selected for playback at the first device is associated with a defined level of security determining by the first device whether the first device provides a first type of secure environment associated with the defined level of security and requesting by the first device from a second device the content for playback on the first device based on a determination that the first device provides the first type of secure environment. For example the first device is a user device and the second device is the secure content component described herein.

Toward the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments include the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in this disclosure detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments can be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It is evident however that such embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In various instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

Companies and organizations often have internal documents videos and or other digital assets that are private or secret. It is important to maintain privacy and security of these documents. With advances in modern technology numerous different types of content can be processed and or provided to users via the Internet. The different types of content have varying levels of sensitivity and call for corresponding levels of security.

One or more of the embodiments can advantageously provide security enforcement for shared content such that content is shared for playback at devices only if the device provides a Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS environment. HTTPS is a communications protocol for secure communication over a computer network e.g. the Internet which is provided by layering the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP on the secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS encryption protocol. SSL is a public key encryption protocol employed by web servers which deliver content that is accessed via the Internet. Typically HTTP communications are non secure however layering of SSL and TLS provide encryption for the content transmitted via HTTP communication.

Accordingly the security of HTTPS is dependent on the underlying TLS protocol which uses long term public and secret keys to exchange a short term session key to encrypt the data flow between client and server. An important property in this context is perfect forward secrecy PFS so the short term session key cannot be derived from the long term asymmetric secret key however PFS is not widely adopted.

To increase the likelihood that the person with which a party is communicating is the intended person and not an imposter X.509 certificates can be used. Specifically certificate authorities and a public key infrastructure can verify the relationship between the owner of a certificate and the certificate as well as generate sign and or administer the validity of certificates.

While the term HTTPS is employed herein and HTTPS typically includes layering of HTTP over SSL and or TLS encryption protocols the embodiments described herein need not be limited to those employing HTTPS SSL and or TLS. For example embodiments described herein can apply for any number of different environments that process content over the Internet that is received and or transmitted via encrypted stream. As such embodiments described herein can provide security enforcement for shared content such that content is provided for playback at devices only if the device provides an environment in which content is encrypted prior to transmission over the Internet. Accordingly embodiments described herein envisage protocols that provide encryption of Internet traffic prior to transmission and decryption of the encrypted version of the Internet traffic upon receipt at the intended destination whether the encryption and decryption is employed by SSL TLS or otherwise.

In one scenario for example an interface component can facilitate a display of information indicative of an option to select a defined level of security for a first subset of content of a plurality of content wherein the defined level of security is indicative of a first type of secure environment the first type of secure environment being a hypertext transfer secure environment. A security component can associate the first subset of content of the plurality of content with an indicator indicative of the defined level of security. The security component can also determine that a device has the first type of secure environment determine that the first subset of content is viewable at the device based on the determination that the device has the first type of secure environment and generate decision information to facilitate output to the device of the first subset of content associated with the defined level of security based on the determining that the first subset of content is viewable at the system.

In another scenario a method includes determining by a device including a processor that a first subset of content of a plurality of content is viewable at a system based on a determination that the system provides a first type of secure environment wherein the first subset of content is associated with information identifying the first type of secure environment. The method also includes generating decision information to facilitate output to the system of the first subset of content based on a determination of whether the system provides a first type of secure environment.

In another scenario another method includes receiving by a device including a processor information indicative of selection of an option associated with a defined controlled access parameter applicable to a subset of content of a plurality of content. The method also includes determining an association between the subset of content and the defined controlled access parameter. Output of the subset of content can be restricted to devices identified by or having associated entities users identified by the defined controlled access parameter.

In another scenario another method is provided. The method includes determining by a device including a processor that content for playback at the device is associated with a defined level of security determining whether the device provides a first type of secure environment associated with the defined level of security and requesting receipt of the content for playback based on a determination that the device provides the first type of secure environment. Accordingly in this scenario a user device determines whether to request content for playback at the user device based on whether the device provides the first type of secure environment and the specified defined level of security for the content.

In various scenarios the security specification e.g. HTTPS and the privacy specification e.g. full time employees of Company X are evaluated and content is provided to devices that meet or have associated entities that meet the security and privacy specifications.

One or more embodiments described herein can advantageously provide content creators and or content owners increased ability to maintain the privacy and security of content by restricting devices authorized to receive particular content based on the security and or privacy characteristics of the devices.

Turning now to the drawings is an illustration of a non limiting block diagram of a system that facilitates security enforcement for shared content in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein. System can facilitate restriction of content to playback at specified environments e.g. HTTPS or environments encrypting Internet traffic prior to transmission over the Internet and or to specified entities e.g. employees of Google Inc. to enhance privacy and or security of content.

As shown in system can include user devices web server secure content system and or content repository and or network . In various embodiments one or more of user devices web server secure content system and or content repository can be communicatively coupled to one another via network to perform one or more functions of system . In some embodiments user devices web server secure content system and or content repository are electrically coupled to one another. Further in some embodiments web server can include secure content system and or content repository while in other embodiments web server secure content system and or content repository can be separate entities that are communicatively coupled to one another via network .

User device can include hardware and or software configured to enable uploading reception transmission and or processing of content e.g. content to and or from user device . In various embodiments content can be any number of different types of content that can be encrypted including but not limited to audio images video text social media content e.g. social media feed items advertising content or the like. By way of example but not limitation content can be or include legal financial and or computer code documents and or corporate presentations. In some embodiments content can be cloud based and shared over network .

In the embodiment shown user device uploads content to content repository via network . In other embodiments user device accesses content from a location remote from user device . For example user device can access content previously stored at content repository and or accessible by web server .

In either embodiment user device can include hardware and or software to specify one or more security or privacy settings for content . Security settings can relate to whether playback on a device is restricted to those devices providing an HTTPS environment whether playback on a device is restricted to those devices performing a security protocol that includes encryption of content prior to transmission over the Internet to the intended destination or whether playback is permitted authorized on any device irrespective of whether the device provides an HTTPS environment or other security. In some embodiments absence of a security specification can mean that content is not restricted for playback based on security. Privacy settings can relate to whether playback on a device is restricted to those devices having or associated with entities having specified characteristics or identities for example.

User device can specify a combination of security and privacy settings in some embodiments. By way of example but not limitation user device can specify that content should be restricted to playback on devices providing a designated level of security having an association with a particular entity e.g. user corporate intranet and or having an association with an entity having one or more designated characteristics e.g. Google Inc. employee .

In some embodiments user device can specify privacy and or security levels for playback of content via interface component . Interface component will be described in greater detail with reference to . are illustrations of non limiting user interfaces that facilitate security enforcement for shared content in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein. Repetitive description of like elements employed in other embodiments described herein is omitted for sake of brevity.

User interface UI can be generated by interface component of . In various embodiments one or more portions of UI can include a touch screen one or more text boxes configured to receive input one or more pull down menus or buttons that can be toggled for selection of content and corresponding specification of privacy and or security settings for the content. Any number of different approaches arrangements or functionality can be employed via UI to facilitate selection of content and specification of privacy and security. show three example embodiments.

As shown in UI can include a first display region that illustrates content that can be selected for privacy and or security specification. One or more of content can be selected by activation of a portion of UI associated with content . In the embodiment shown content is selected for privacy and or security specification.

UI can also provide a second display region that provides a text box for entering a title for the selected content a third display region that provides a text box for entering a description for the selected content and or a fourth display region that provides a text box for entering one or more tags describing a characteristic of the selected content.

UI can display information about the selected content at fifth display region . For example as shown fifth display region can display information including but not limited to a channel associated with the selected content the uploaded time and or duration of the selected content the raw file that embodies the selected content the number of views likes dislikes comments for the selected content and or a URL associated with the selected content.

UI can also provide a sixth display region that can provide a text box or a set of options that can be selected for indicating that content will be indicated as private content while seventh display region can provide a text box or a set of options from which a selection can be made to indicate the type of privacy setting desired. In various embodiments one or more different characteristics of a device or entity associated with a device can be specified to indicate the type of privacy setting desired. Although not necessary in some cases an access control list ACL can be generated to indicate the type of privacy setting.

As shown in content can be specified as private such that only specified entities can playback content . In the specified entities are those devices associated with Google Inc. As such only devices associated with Google Inc. and or having entities e.g. users associated with Google Inc. can playback content . As such business content owners can restrict dissemination of sensitive information to devices associated with the business if desired.

As another example with reference to content can be specified as being limited to playback on devices associated with entities having specified characteristics. For example in the embodiment shown in content can be specified as private content that can only be viewed by devices associated with the Google.com domain name. Any number of different domains names can be indicated and as such can allow a content provider to limit devices on which sensitive content can be played. In some embodiments UI can allow specification that playback of content be limited to devices proxying through a designated domain name.

In content is specified as limited to playback on devices associated with entities that have a specified set of characteristics. An ACL can be specified identifying a list of specific entities devices and or characteristics of entities and or devices that can access content . For example playback for content can be restricted to devices associated with entities that are full time employees of Google Inc. and over age 18. In content is specified as limited to playback on devices associated with entities that are employees that have signed a non disclosure agreement for Task Q. With reference to any number of security or privacy characteristics for which device compliance can be determined by communication with the device or resort to record etc. by secure content system via network can be specified.

As shown in UI can also provide an eighth display region that can provide a text box or a set of options that can be selected for specifying a defined level of security required for playback of content. For example as shown content can be restricted to playback on devices providing HTTPS environments when the option is selected. In embodiments in which the restriction to HTTPS option in the eighth display region is unselected content need not be restricted to devices providing HTTPS environments and by contrast can be provided for playback on devices that do not provide HTTPS environments. Although not shown in some embodiments UI can include another display region that can receive information indicating other types of secure environments other than HTTPS to which content is restricted.

In some embodiments a ninth display region can be provided to output visual information indicative of selected content . In other embodiments UI does not include ninth display region yet can facilitate specification of privacy and security settings for content via selection and specification of settings for the content.

In some embodiments content can be automatically associated with default settings during or after creation of content without resort to specification via user device . For example default privacy and or security settings can be automatically determined or in some embodiments recommended for content based on the owner of content or an organization in which content is created. For example content created by a full time employee of Company X can have a default security specification restricting the content to devices providing HTTPS environments.

Turning back to content and or privacy and or security settings for content can be stored in content repository in some embodiments. In other embodiments privacy and or security settings for content can be stored at or accessible by secure content system and or web server . Secure content system can access the privacy and or security settings for particular content for which a request has been received at web server to determine whether web server should output the requested content to the requesting device. In some embodiments the requesting device is user device . As such user device can request content via the Internet for display via interface component and secure content system can generate information that can be received by web server to allow web server to determine whether to output the requested content to user device .

User device can include hardware and or software for requesting receipt of content and or playback of content received over network at user device . In various embodiments interface component can include software providing a web browser that can receive and output visual or audio content received via network e.g. Internet . In some embodiments user device provides HTTPS functionality via the web browser associated with interface component .

In other embodiments user device does not provide HTTPS functionality. For example user device can have a web browser that provides only HTTP communication and content to from user device is therefore unencrypted and subject to eavesdropping. Depending on the level of security provided by user device and the privacy and or security designations specified for content access to one or more of content may be restricted from user device or served to user device .

In various embodiments user device can include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a tablet computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a desktop computer or any device able to transmit and or receive communication over network .

Web server can include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software configured to deliver content accessed via the Internet. As such web server can receive requests for content delivery from a web browser of a device and can deliver the requested content to the requesting device. Content between web server and user device can be communicated via HTTP if user device is not providing the HTTPS environment e.g. if the request for content is provided via HTTP and not HTTPS while content can be communicated over HTTPS if user device is providing the HTTPS environment e.g. if the request for content is provided via HTTPS .

In some embodiments the content can be a file stored in content repository . As such content repository can be located in or accessible by web server in some embodiments. By way of example but not limitation one or more flags having different values can be associated with content identifiers for the content. The values can indicate a security level or privacy type specification designated for the content associated with the content identifiers.

Secure content system will be described in greater detail with reference to . is an illustration of a non limiting block diagram of a secure content system that facilitates security enforcement for shared content in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein. Repetitive description of like elements employed in respective embodiments of systems and or apparatus described herein are omitted for sake of brevity. is an illustration of a non limiting block diagram of a table that facilitates security enforcement for shared content in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.

Turning first to secure content system can include communication component interface component security component content modification component memory and or processor . In various embodiments one or more of communication component interface component security component content modification component memory and or processor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of secure content system .

Communication component can transmit and or receive information to from web server content repository and or user devices . For example communication component can receive information indicative of a request for content to be provided over network to user device . The information indicative of the request can be received from web server for example after web server receives the request from a web browser associated with device .

As another example communication component can receive information indicative of a type of security provided by device e.g. whether device provides HTTPS and or any other content encryption .

As another example communication component can receive or access information indicative of privacy and or security settings for particular content and or communication component can transmit generated decision information as to whether content should be provided to user device by web server . To generate the decision information secure content component can access the information indicative of privacy and or security settings for particular content to determine one or more previously specified association between particular content and particular privacy and security settings.

In some embodiments the information indicative of privacy and or security settings can be stored as shown in table of . As shown table can include content identifiers which can correspond to respective content. One or more of the content can have corresponding privacy and or security settings.

In one embodiment one or more flags having different values can be associated with the content identifiers to indicate the specific privacy or security setting for the content. In some embodiments a flag can be toggled on or off to indicate that a particular privacy or security setting is enabled or disabled. For example a flag can be toggled to turn on or off restriction on content sharing to devices providing HTTPS.

In the example shown in content identifiers have security settings restricting content associate with content identifiers to playback on devices providing HTTPS environments. Content identifiers have no security settings specified and as such are not restricted to playback on devices providing HTTPS environments.

Further as also shown in content identifier has an additional privacy specification beyond the HTTPS security level specification. In particular content identifier represents content for which playback is restricted to devices associated with entities that have signed a non disclosure agreement for Task Q. By contrast content identifier represents content for which playback is restricted to devices associated with entities that are full time employees of Company X.

Turning back to security component can restrict access to specific content based on whether the device requesting the content provides an HTTPS environment. For example security component can determine that content is specified for playback in a first type of secure environment e.g. HTTPS environment . For example security component can obtain such information from table of .

In one embodiment security component can determine that a device requesting the content provides the HTTPS environment. For example if the request from the device was received by web server over HTTPS web server can transmit information to security component indicating the HTTPS request. In some embodiments security component can determine that the request was received over HTTPS without receipt of information from web server . For example in some embodiments as shown in security component can be a separate entity from web server . In some of these embodiments security component can be an intermediary between web server and user device and can therefore receive the request for content.

If the request was sent unencrypted or otherwise without use of HTTPS security component can recognize that the device is not providing an HTTPS environment.

In some embodiments security component can determine whether user device provides the HTTPS environment based on information from user device accompanying the request and advising security component that user device provides the HTTPS environment. In any embodiment security component can determine whether user device is providing an HTTPS environment.

Security component can compare the information identifying privacy and or security settings for the requested content with the characteristics of user device . Security component can control output of the content to the device or generate information authorizing output of the content from web server to the device if there is a match between the privacy and security settings and the environment characteristics of the requesting device. For example if content requires an HTTPS environment and the requesting device provides an HTTPS environment security component can determine that a match exists between the security setting for the content and the requesting device. If the privacy settings also match e.g. if the content is limited to devices having entities associated with the Google Inc. and the device is associated with an employee of Google Inc. security component can determine that a match exists between the privacy setting for the content and the requesting device.

In some embodiments security component can control output of the content to the device or generate information authorizing output of the content from web server to the device if the environment characteristics of the requesting device meets or exceeds the privacy and security settings of the content. For example if there are no security settings for content yet the requesting device provides HTTPS security component can output the content or generate authorization for the content to be output to the device providing HTTPS since HTTPS is a higher level of security than that required.

Security component can generate and output authorization e.g. decision information to web server . Web server can transmit the content to the requesting device based on receipt of the authorization decision information.

In another embodiment security component can determine that a device requesting the content does not provide the HTTPS environment. Security component can output to the requesting device or cause web server to output to the requesting device a message indicative of an inability to output the content based on the determination that the device does not provide the HTTPS environment.

Content modification component of secure content system can remove or augment content based on the determination made by security component . For example in some embodiments a plurality of content can be requested by a user device. If security component determines that one or more of the plurality of content is not authorized to be provided to the requesting device content modification component can remove the content that is not authorized for playback at the requesting device. Web server can then provide the remaining authorized content to the requesting device.

In some embodiments content modification component can generate information to be transmitted with the authorized content to inform a user of the requesting device that selected content is unavailable and or to inform the user of the requesting device of security and or privacy requirements for receipt of the content that is not authorized for playback at the requesting device.

For example in some embodiments security component can determine that a device requesting particular content does not provide the HTTPS environment while the content is restricted to playback only in HTTPS environments. Content modification component can remove the content that is not authorized for dissemination to the requesting device. The remaining content that does not require the HTTPS environment can be output to the requesting device.

In another embodiment security component can determine that a device requesting particular content does not provide the HTTPS environment. Content modification component of secure content system can remove the content that is not authorized for dissemination to the requesting device and augment the remaining content with other content that does not require the HTTPS environment. For example a message indicating that particular content is not available or is restricted to HTTPS environments only can be included as part of the content output to the requesting device. The resulting set of content can be output to the requesting device.

In another embodiment security component can determine that a device requesting particular content does not provide the HTTPS environment. Content modification component of secure content system can remove the content that is not authorized for dissemination to the requesting device and augment the remaining content with other content that does not require the HTTPS environment. For example information directing the user of the requesting device to a secure website that provides an HTTPS environment can be output to the requesting device.

In various embodiments security component can determine that content is restricted to being shared only within a defined domain and or according to one or more aspects specified by a defined access control list ACL in addition to being restricted to HTTPS environments. Accordingly in some embodiments one or more of the requirement for HTTPS or other security providing encryption prior to transmission over the Internet and or various different types of privacy specifications can be evaluated by security component .

In some embodiments security component can restrict access to content based on the ACL specified for the content. For example in one embodiment security component can restrict access to an ACL representing a specific set of users e.g. users having specified identities users logged into a particular system . In another embodiment security component can restrict access to an ACL having one or more characteristics of a group of users e.g. full time employees or users under the age of 18 .

In another embodiment security component can restrict content to devices or devices associated with entities that are part of a defined corporate network or that have proxied through a defined corporate network. Accordingly content dissemination can be restricted to devices or entities associated with a defined corporation business entity. This embodiment can be employed for systems that service content both inside and outside of a corporate intranet and or for enterprise applications for use by large companies that have their own security protocols. With this embodiment the company can enable entities to take advantage of a product generally and protect particular content with the security layer or logging into the own corporate network.

In another embodiment security component can restrict content to a specific domain. As such content can be disseminated only within the specified domain.

In another embodiment in the case of a social network or a group of events security component can remove from a rendered list of content intended for a device events that contain content elements specified to be provided only to environments providing HTTPS if the device does not provide an HTTPS environment.

In another embodiment security component can replace the events that contain the content elements specified for HTTPS environments with other events and or output text indicating that the events content has a particular set of restrictions. For example if a device requests navigates to a webpage with content designated as requiring an HTTPS environment for playback information can be displayed to re direct the device to an HTTPS version of the webpage. In another embodiment security component can output a message explaining why the content is not displayed to the device.

Various embodiments described herein can apply to streamed content as well as content such as feed items. For example in some cases streams of feed items typically contain a source and a media item. A requesting device can receive feed items from entities to which the device is subscribed. In some embodiments feed items can be fetched through an application programming interface API that indicates whether the requesting device is making the request for the feed item via an HTTPS connection or a non HTTPS connection.

In one embodiment security component can remove various feed items from the list of feed items to be delivered to the requesting device if the requesting device does not provide an HTTPS connection and the feed item is specified as being restricted to devices providing HTTPS.

Metadata can be employed to store information about the privacy and or security specifications of a feed item. For example one type of metadata associated with a feed item can indicate whether the feed item is to be restricted to playback in HTTPS environments only. If a feed item requires HTTPS and the requesting device does not provide HTTPS content modification component can delete the feed item restricted to HTTPS environments from the set of feed items intended for the requesting device. In this embodiment the stream of feed items is uninterrupted even though some feed items have been removed.

In the embodiments described web server and or secure content system can detect whether the connection with the requesting device is over HTTPS or not because the traffic being transmitted and received is already encrypted if the connection is over the HTTPS connection. If the connection is over the HTTPS the content requiring HTTPS can be provided. Otherwise the content can be restricted and not provided. In some embodiments the service side can indicate a fail and not attempt to provide the content.

In some embodiments the requesting device can perform additional steps to reduce the wait time to receiving notification as to whether content can be played on the requesting device. For example information such as that shown in table of can be accessible to the requesting device. For example table can be in a location publicly accessible over the Internet.

When the player of the device communicates with the web browser of the device the player can determine whether particular content has an HTTPS requirement. If the content has an HTTPS requirement and the web browser does not provide HTTPS a fail situation can occur immediately instead of the device requesting the content and the fail occurring after receipt of the request. The device can forego request of the content.

In some embodiments interface component of secure content system can be provided. Interface component for example can generate and or output information for generation of UI described with reference to . In these embodiments for example the information for UI can be transmitted to user device for display via interface component .

In other embodiments a user interface generated by interface component can be accessed directed at secure content system to configure security and or privacy settings for selected content.

Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to secure content system or any component of secure content system . For example memory can store computer executable instructions that can be executed by processor to perform communication evaluation decision making or other types of functions executed by security component and or content modification component . Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to secure content system . For example processor can determine whether content is authorized to be provided to a device for playback determine one or more conditions specified by an ACL for content remove content that is not authorized to be provided to a device for playback or the like.

Turning back to network can be or include a wired or wireless channel providing connectivity between two or more points. For example network can communicatively and or electrically couple one or more of secure content system web server content repository and or user devices . By way of example but not limitation network can be a cellular network a wide area network WAN e.g. Internet a local area network LAN or a personal area network PAN . Network can utilize any number of different types of wired or wireless technology including for example cellular WAN wireless fidelity Wi Fi Wi Max and or WLAN.

Although not shown in some embodiments secure content system content repository and or web server can be cloud based systems.

Because the environment of the device requesting the content is an HTTPS environment content specified as HTTPS only e.g. content and content not specified as HTTPS only e.g. content can be provided to the requesting device for playback in response to request from the user device if the requesting device also meets the privacy specifications of the content associated with content identifiers . As such content modification component of can aggregate a set of content inclusive of each portion of content requested by the requesting device.

With reference to content that does not meet the security e.g. HTTPS requirements and privacy requirements can be removed by content modification component of secure content system prior to the content being provided to the requesting device.

For example security component can determine that the requesting device does not provide an HTTPS environment. Accordingly if content associated with content identifiers was requested by the device content modification component can remove content associated with content identifiers prior to the content being sent to the requesting device.

Content of can correspond to content identifiers of for example. As shown in each of content is provided to the requesting device for playback. In this embodiment since content requires an HTTPS environment and the requesting device provides an HTTPS environment each of content can be served over HTTPS.

As shown in only content which are those that do not require HTTPS are provided to the requesting device although requesting device may have requested content . In this embodiment the entire set of content provided to the requesting device can be augment with one or more messages in lieu of content which requires an HTTPS environment. Messages can output information that informs the viewer that the particular requested content cannot be displayed because the environment is not an HTTPS environment.

As shown in only content which are those that do not require HTTPS are provided to the requesting device although requesting device may have requested content . In this embodiment the content provided to the requesting device can be the content for which the device meets any security and or privacy specifications notwithstanding more content may have been requested by the device.

At method can include determining an association between the first subset of content of the plurality of content with an indicator indicative of the defined level of security e.g. using security component . The defined level of security can be a level of security indicative of HTTPS in some embodiments and in other embodiments a level of security that provides encrypted content between the first device and the second device. The first type of secure environment can be the HTTPS environment.

Tuning now to at method can include determining that a device has the first type of secure environment e.g. using security component . In some embodiments determining that the device has the first type of secure environment is performed in response to receiving a request for the first subset of content from the device.

At method can include determining that the first subset of content is viewable at the device based on the determining that the device has the first type of secure environment e.g. using security component . In various embodiments the content can be any type of content that can be encrypted and provided via the Internet including but not limited to video audio images text social media feed items or the like.

At method can include generating decision information to facilitate output to the device of the first subset of content associated with the defined level of security based on the determining that the first subset of content is viewable at the device e.g. using security component . The first subset of content can be received at the device for playback within an environment having security and or privacy defined by the level of security designated for the content. In some embodiments the first subset of content can be output over HTTPS and can be decrypted by the device upon receipt.

Turning now to at method can include determining that a device has a second type of secure environment wherein the second type of secure environment is different from the first type of secure environment e.g. using security component . For example the second type of secure environment can be an environment that either does not provide security or it does not provide the type of security indicated for the content as being required for playback. For example if the content is designated for playback in environments that provide HTTPS the second type of secure environment can be a non HTTPS environment.

At method can include generating decision information to facilitate output to the device of a message indicative of an inability to output the first subset of content based on the determining that the system has the second type of secure environment e.g. using security component . For example in lieu of providing the first subset of content if the first subset of content is designated for playback in a particular type of secure environment not provided by the device requesting the content the device can receive a message informing the device that the particular type of security is required and or must be activated for receipt of the requested content. The message can be output over HTTP in lieu of being output over HTTPS .

Turning now to at method can include determining that a system has a second type of secure environment wherein the second type of secure environment is different from the first type of secure environment e.g. using security component . At method can include removing from the plurality of content the first subset of content associated with the defined level of security to generate a filtered set of content e.g. using content modification component . For example if a device has requested content and some of the content is designated for a particular type of secure environment that is not provided by the device the content modification component can filter out the content that is designated for the type of security not provided by the device. The device can then receive only the content that is not designated for the particular type of secure environment that is not provided by the device.

At method can include generating decision information to facilitate output to the system of the filtered set of content based on the determining that the device has the second type of secure environment e.g. e.g. using security component . The filtered set of content can be output over HTTP in lieu of being output over HTTPS .

Turning now to at method can include determining that a system has a second type of secure environment wherein the second type of secure environment is different from the first type of secure environment e.g. using security component . At method can include removing from the plurality of content the first subset of content associated with the defined level of security to generate an intermediate set of content e.g. using content modification component .

At method can include augmenting the intermediate set of content with a second subset of content of the plurality of content that fails to be associated with the defined level of security to generate a filtered set of content e.g. using content modification component . In this embodiment for example in lieu of sending only the content that is authorized for playback at the device the content modification component can also augment such content with descriptive information indicating that the content that is restricted has been removed as shown in for example .

At method can include generating decision information to facilitate output to the system of the filtered set of content based on the determining that the system has the second type of secure environment e.g. using security component . The filtered set of content can be output over HTTP in lieu of being output over HTTPS .

Turning now to at method can include receiving by a first device including a processor information indicative of a defined level of security for content originating from a defined internet domain name wherein the defined level of security is indicative of a first type of secure environment e.g. using security component . At method can include associating the subset of content with an indicator indicative of the defined level of security e.g. using security component . The first subset of content can be output over HTTPS in some embodiments for example and can be decrypted upon receipt.

Turning now to at method can include determining by a first device including a processor information indicative of selection of a first option associated with a defined controlled access parameter applicable to a subset of content of a plurality of content e.g. using security component . At method can include determining that a second device is associated with an entity identified by the defined controlled access parameter e.g. using security component .

At method can include determining that a second device is associated with an entity identified by the defined controlled access parameter e.g. using security component .

At method can include generating decision information to facilitate output to the second device of the subset of content associated with the defined controlled access parameter based on the determining that the second device is associated with the entity e.g. using security component . The content can be output over HTTPS in some embodiments for example and can be decrypted by the second device upon receipt.

Turning now to at method can include determining by a first device including a processor that content selected for playback at the first device is associated with a defined level of security e.g. using user device . At method can include determining by the first device whether the first device provides a first type of secure environment associated with the defined level of security e.g. using user device . At method can include requesting by the first device from a second device the content for playback on the first device based on a determination that the first device provides the first type of secure environment e.g. using user device .

Accordingly in this embodiment the device on which the content is to be played can evaluate the level of security specified for the content evaluate whether the device provides the level of security specified and request the content only if the device has determined that the device provides the specified level of security. Accordingly this embodiment can reduce content requesting traffic and also reduce the amount of wait time before the device receives information indicating that the content cannot be provided for playback at the device.

The systems and processes described below can be embodied within hardware such as a single integrated circuit IC chip multiple ICs an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders not all of which may be explicitly illustrated in this disclosure.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various embodiments described herein is or can include a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory a codec and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and non volatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory . In addition according to one or more embodiments codec may include at least one of an encoder or decoder wherein the at least one of an encoder or decoder may consist of hardware a combination of hardware and software or software. Although codec is depicted as a separate component codec may be contained within non volatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. According to present aspects the volatile memory may store the write operation retry logic not shown in and the like. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM.

Computer may also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage medium. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive solid state disk SSD floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 70 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage medium separately or in combination with other storage medium including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . Applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data such as the boot shutdown transaction table and the like stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device a smart phone a tablet or other network node and typically includes many of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then connected via communication connection s . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN and cellular networks. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and wired and wireless Ethernet cards hubs and routers.

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s include or are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively include or are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

In one embodiment a client can transfer an encoded file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter to server . Server can store the file decode the file or transmit the file to another client . It is to be appreciated that a client can also transfer uncompressed file to a server and server can compress the file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. Likewise server can encode video information and transmit the information via communication framework to one or more clients .

The illustrated aspects of the disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Moreover it is to be appreciated that various components described in this description can include electrical circuit s that can include components and circuitry elements of suitable value in order to implement the one or more of the embodiments described herein. Furthermore it can be appreciated that many of the various components can be implemented on one or more IC chips. For example in one embodiment a set of components can be implemented in a single IC chip. In other embodiments one or more of respective components are fabricated or implemented on separate IC chips.

What has been described above includes examples of the embodiments of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but it is to be appreciated that many further combinations and permutations of the embodiments are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described in this disclosure for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the disclosure illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that one or more embodiments includes a system as well as a computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

The aforementioned systems circuits modules have been described with respect to interaction between several components blocks. It can be appreciated that such systems circuits and components blocks can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but known by those of skill in the art.

In addition while a particular aspect of an embodiment may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As used in this application the terms component module system or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware e.g. a circuit a combination of hardware and software software or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor e.g. digital signal processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function software stored on a computer readable storage medium software transmitted on a computer readable transmission medium or a combination thereof.

Moreover the words example or exemplary are used in this disclosure to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used in this description differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer is typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal that can be transitory such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. For simplicity of explanation the methodologies are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described in this disclosure. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with certain aspects of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methodologies disclosed in this disclosure are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used in this disclosure is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

