---

title: Systems and methods for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks
abstract: A computer-implemented method for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks may include (1) searching a plurality of websites for user profiles belonging users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization, (2) retrieving, from the user profiles, personal information describing the users, (3) determining, based on the personal information, that a portion of the user profiles belongs to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource, (4) identifying at least one phishing attack risk factor in the user profiles that belong to the individual user, and (5) assessing, based at least in part on the phishing attack risk factor, a risk of a phishing attack targeting the individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09160766&OS=09160766&RS=09160766
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09160766
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140425
---
Advanced persistent threats APTs are a growing problem in the world of information security. APTs are groups that are capably of effectively targeting a specific entity. APTs may range from nation states to organized crime and may threaten the security of an organization in a variety of ways. Sensitive data is commonly targeted by APTs causing monetary and reputation damages to affected organizations. APTs may steal intellectual property financial details of customers and employees organizational strategy information or any other type of confidential data. Many attacks by APTs begin with a spear phishing attack against a member of the organization. Spear phishing attacks may use personal information about a targeted member of an organization to individualize the phishing attack giving the attack a greater chance of success.

Traditional systems for preventing phishing attacks are seldom capable of securing organizations against individualized phishing attacks such as spear phishing. Many traditional systems may focus on preventing generic phishing attacks against the entire organization and may lack the fine grained controls necessary to prevent more specific phishing attacks. Traditional systems may not be capable of identifying which members of the organization may be likely targets for phishing attacks. Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks by retrieving profiles of users connected to the organization from websites correlating multiple profiles that belong to the same user and analyzing the correlated profiles for phishing attack risk factors to determine the risk of a spear phishing attack targeting the user.

In one example a computer implemented method for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks may include 1 searching a plurality of websites for a plurality of user profiles belonging to a plurality of users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization 2 retrieving from the plurality of user profiles personal information describing the plurality of users 3 determining based on the personal information that a portion of the plurality of user profiles belongs to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource controlled by the organization 4 identifying at least one phishing attack risk factor in the portion of the plurality of user profiles that belongs to the individual user and 5 assessing based at least in part on the phishing attack risk factor a risk of a phishing attack targeting the individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource.

Once the phishing attack risk factor has been determined the organization may employ a variety of automatic and or manual countermeasures. In some embodiments the computer implemented method may further include performing a security action based on the risk of the phishing attack targeting the individual user. In some examples the computer implemented method may further include defining the security action by selecting the security action from a set of potential security actions for addressing phishing attacks based on the phishing attack risk factor and or configuring the security action with a parameter based on the phishing attack risk factor. For example the security action may include 1 adding an email filter for the individual user with at least one keyword derived from the phishing attack risk factor 2 adjusting a privilege of the individual user to access the privileged computing resource and or 3 warning the individual user about the phishing attack risk factor.

In many scenarios phishing attack risk factors may be present on websites external to the organization. In one example the plurality of websites may include at least one third party website not controlled by the organization. For example at least one of the websites may include a social networking platform.

Users of a variety of types may have access to sensitive organizational resources. The plurality of users who are affiliated with the organization may include 1 employees of the organization 2 former employees of the organization and or 3 contractors hired by the organization.

In one embodiment determining based on the personal information that the portion of the user profiles belong to the individual user may include determining that a first profile within the user profiles belongs to the individual user and then determining that a second profile within the user profiles also belongs to the individual user by 1 identifying a hyperlink from the first profile to the second profile 2 identifying a unique identifier for the individual user that appears within both the first profile and the second profile and or 3 identifying a plurality of non unique identifiers that each appear within the first profile and the second profile.

In some examples assessing the risk of the phishing attack targeting the individual users may include 1 identifying a set of training data that includes user profiles of users within organizations previously targeted by phishing attacks where the set of training data indicates which users were targeted by the phishing attacks 2 using the set of training data to build a machine learning classifier that classifies users based on user profile data according to a likelihood that each user will be targeted in phishing attacks and 3 assessing the risk of the phishing attack targeting the individual user with the machine learning classifier by providing the phishing attack risk factor as input to the machine learning classifier.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 a search module stored in memory that searches a plurality of websites for a plurality of user profiles belonging to a plurality of users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization 2 a retrieval module stored in memory that retrieves from the plurality of user profiles personal information describing the plurality of users 3 a determination module stored in memory that determines based on the personal information that a portion of the plurality of user profiles belongs to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource controlled by the organization 4 an identification module stored in memory that identifies at least one phishing attack risk factor in the portion of the plurality of user profiles that belongs to the individual user 5 an assessment module stored in memory that assesses based at least in part on the phishing attack risk factor a risk of a phishing attack targeting the individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource and 6 at least one processor configured to execute the search module the retrieval module the determination module the identification module and the assessment module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium. For example a computer readable medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 search a plurality of websites for a plurality of user profiles belonging to a plurality of users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization 2 retrieve from the plurality of user profiles personal information describing the plurality of users 3 determine based on the personal information that a portion of the plurality of user profiles belongs to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource controlled by the organization 4 identify at least one phishing attack risk factor in the portion of the plurality of user profiles that belongs to the individual user and 5 assess based at least in part on the phishing attack risk factor a risk of a phishing attack targeting the individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks. As will be explained in greater detail below by searching publicly available Internet profiles of organization employees systems described herein can assess which employees are most vulnerable to spear phishing attacks in a similar manner to attackers. By determining which employees are the most likely targets organizations can focus their phishing prevention efforts on those employees and their individual phishing risk factors increasing the chances that the phishing prevention efforts will be successful.

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . Detailed descriptions of an exemplary set of data that may be retrieved by systems described herein will be provided in connection with . Detailed descriptions of an exemplary decision tree for determining which users within an organization may be targeted by phishing attacks will be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device and or servers and or computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in communication with servers and or via a network . In one example computing device may be programmed with one or more of modules . Additionally or alternatively servers and or may be programmed with one or more of modules .

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of computing device server and or server enable computing device server and or server to protect organizations against spear phishing attacks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause computing device server and or server to protect organizations against spear phishing attacks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below search module may search websites and or for user profiles and or belonging to users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization. Next retrieval module may retrieve from user profiles and or personal information describing the users. After personal information has been retrieved determination module may determine based on personal information that user profiles and or belong to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource controlled by the organization. Once the profiles have been correlated identification module may identify at least one phishing attack risk factor in user profiles and or that belong to individual user . Finally assessment module may assess based at least in part on phishing attack risk factor a risk of a phishing attack targeting individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource.

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems wearable devices e.g. smart watches smart glasses etc. gaming consoles combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Servers and generally represent any type or form of computing device that is capable of hosting websites. Examples of servers and include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN a Personal Area Network PAN the Internet Power Line Communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between computing device server and or server .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may search a plurality of websites for a plurality of user profiles belonging to a plurality of users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization. For example at step search module may as part of computing device in search websites and or for user profiles and or belonging to users who are affiliated with an organization and who have access to at least one privileged computing resource controlled by the organization.

The term website as used herein generally refers to any resource or set of resources hosted on one or more servers and available via the Internet. For example a website may include an Internet resource that may host and or provide access to one or more user profiles. In some examples the plurality of websites may include at least one third party website not controlled by the organization. For example the websites may include social media platforms such as LINKEDIN TWITTER FACEBOOK and or GOOGLE . Additionally or alternatively the websites may include people search websites such as PEEKYOU and or SPOKEO.

The phrase user profiles as used herein generally refers to any data that includes personal information about a user. The contents of a user profile may be partially or entirely controlled by the user other users of the website and or one or more website administrators. Examples of user profiles may include without limitation an entry in a staff directory a social media profile and or a gaming account profile. In some examples user profiles may include information useful for crafting an individualized phishing attack targeting the user in order to gain access to a sensitive resource controlled by the user s organization.

The term organization as used herein generally refers to any group including both individuals and resources. An organization may include members and or employees as well as computing financial physical and or other resources. In some examples an organization may include a corporation a sports team a social club a religious club and or an academic institution. In some examples an organization may be a portion of a larger organization such as a department within a corporation.

Users who are affiliated with an organization may include employees of the organization former employees of the organization and or contractors hired by the organization. In some examples an organization may control sensitive computing resources to which only some members of the organization may be granted access. In these examples the members of the organization with access to the sensitive resources may be the targets of phishing attacks attempting to gain access to the sensitive resources.

Search module may search the websites for profiles belonging to users affiliated with the organization in a variety of ways. Search module may use a manually determined list of websites and or may generate a list of websites that may include user profiles by crawling the Internet. Search module may use external search engines such as GOOGLE to search the websites and or may use the internal search features of the websites including search features made available via application programming interfaces. In some examples search module may discover user profiles via links from other user profiles such as a link from a FACEBOOK page to a TWITTER account.

In one example search module may search several social media platforms for keywords associated with the organization. The keywords may be part of user profiles and or may be a part of a page for the organization that may be connected to user profiles. In one example search module may search FACEBOOK for SYMANTEC and then search the resulting profiles for phrases such as Symantec Engineer and or working at Symantec. In another example search module may search LINKEDIN for users listing SYMANTEC as their current employer. Additionally or alternatively search module may search TWITTER for users who follow the official SYMANTEC account.

In some examples the websites may have daily limits throttling limited search results and or some other form of access control. In these examples search module may use multiple accounts on the websites may make requests from multiple Internet protocol addresses may use a combination of application programming interface and browser requests may cache previous results and or may continuously make requests just below the throttling limit. For example search module may use multiple LINKEDIN accounts to avoid a employee limit that LINKEDIN may impose on searches. In some embodiments search module may include multiple instances running in parallel to improve performance.

The phrase privileged computing resources as used herein generally refers to any computing resources to which access may be restricted based on the privilege level of the user. Privileged computing resources may include sensitive data may have high level permissions and or may run privileged software. For example a privileged resource may include a computing device storing the organization s internal financial data that may only be accessed by members of the accounting department. In another example a privileged computing resource may include a profile on an internal network that has administrative permissions over all other profiles and may only be accessed by the Information Technology manager.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may retrieve from the plurality of user profiles personal information describing the plurality of users. For example at step retrieval module may as part of computing device in retrieve from user profiles and or personal information describing the plurality of users.

The phrase personal information as used herein generally refers to any information that may be used to identify and or characterize an individual user. Personal information may include contact information such as a home address phone number and or email address and or descriptive information such as name age location images hobbies job history and or current job title. Personal information may also include links to external resources such as web pages for organizations the user is affiliated with articles about the user and or additional profiles of the user.

Retrieval module may retrieve the personal information in a variety of ways and contexts. For example retrieval module may download the contents of the user profiles from the social media platforms searched in step . In one example retrieval module may download the profile image and the contents of the About tab from the user s FACEBOOK profile.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may determine based on the personal information that a portion of the plurality of user profiles belongs to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource controlled by the organization. For example at step determination module may as part of computing device in determine based on personal information that a portion of user profiles and or belongs to an individual user with access to the privileged computing resource controlled by the organization.

Determination module may determine that the profiles belong to the individual user in a variety of ways. For example determination module may analyze the profiles and determine that a portion of the profiles include personal information that uniquely identifies the individual user.

Determination module may store the user profiles in a variety of ways. In some embodiments determination module may store the user profiles in text files and or databases. For example determination module may store the user profiles as JSON objects in a MONGODB database.

In one embodiment determination module may determine based on the personal information that the portion of the plurality of user profiles belongs to the individual user by determining that a first profile within the portion of the plurality of the user profiles belongs to the individual user and determining that a second profile within the portion of the plurality of user profiles also belongs to the individual user. Determination module may make this determination in a number of ways including 1 identifying a hyperlink from the first profile to the second profile 2 identifying a unique identifier for the individual user that appears within both the first profile and the second profile and or 3 identifying a plurality of non unique identifiers that each appear within the first profile and the second profile. Examples of unique identifiers may include full names email addresses phone numbers home addresses and or instant messaging usernames. Examples of non unique identifiers may include partial names locations job titles profile images and or keyword strings. In some examples a user may have several profiles that include overlapping information.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify at least one phishing attack risk factor in the portion of the plurality of user profiles that belongs to the individual user. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify at least one phishing attack risk factor in user profiles and or that belong to individual user .

The phrase phishing attack as used herein generally refers to any attempt by a malicious entity to appear trustworthy e.g. by impersonating another entity for the purposes of gaining information. The phrase spear phishing attack as used herein generally refers to any phishing attack that is targeted at a particular user e.g. a phishing attack that targets a particular user because of a known characteristic of that user and or that is designed to trick that user based on known characteristic of that user . In various instances as used herein the phrase phishing attack may refer specifically to a spear phishing attack. For example an attacker may impersonate a representative of a legitimate organization and or a trusted colleague in an attempt to gain sensitive information from a user. In some examples gaining sensitive information from the user may be accomplished by convincing the user to download malicious software that may relay information from the user s computing device to the attacker. In one example an attacker may send the user an email impersonating a fellow attendee of a technical conference in an attempt to get the user to download an email attachment containing a Trojan.

The phrase phishing attack risk factor as used herein generally refers to any characteristic of a user or publicly available information about a user that may make an attacker more likely to target the user with a phishing attack. In some examples the phishing attack risk factor may include a characteristic that has been determined to statistically correlate with being targeted for phishing attacks. For example a user s job title may indicate that the user likely has access to sensitive resources making the user an attractive target for attackers. In another example a user may post a large amount of information about their job history travel conference attendance external collaboration personal hobbies and or other activities on social media platforms creating many opportunities for attackers to craft a convincing impersonation. Additionally or alternatively a user s profile e.g. keywords and or phrases within the user s profile may indicate that they are less technically savvy a temporary employee a disgruntled employee and or well connected internally within the organization and or externally to the organization.

Identification module may identify the phishing attack risk factors in a variety of ways. For example identification module may scan the personal information for key words and phrases associated with phishing risks. In one example identification module may locate the phrases technology conference engineer at Symantec and or interview with TechCrunch in a user s profile and identify the phrases as phishing attack risk factors.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may assess based at least in part on the phishing attack risk factor a risk of a phishing attack targeting the individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource. For example at step assessment module may as part of computing device in assess based at least in part on phishing attack risk factor a risk of a phishing attack targeting individual user to illegitimately gain access to the privileged computing resource.

Assessment module may assess the risk of the phishing attack in a variety of ways. For example assessment module may categorize users to determine their individual risks of being targeted by phishing attacks. In one example assessment module may use a machine learning classifier to categorize users in order to calculate the risk of the phishing attack.

In some examples assessment module may assesses the risk of the phishing attack targeting the individual users in several steps. First assessment module may identify a set of training data that includes user profiles of users within organizations previously targeted by phishing attacks where the set of training data indicates which users were targeted by the phishing attacks . Next assessment module may use the set of training data to build a machine learning classifier that classifies users based on user profile data according to likelihood that each user will be targeted in phishing attacks. Finally assessment module may assess the risk of the phishing attack targeting the individual user with the machine learning classifier by providing the phishing attack risk factor as input to the machine learning classifier. In one example assessment module may use a database of victim data from previous phishing attacks as training data for the classifier. In this example assessment module may normalize the user profile data against the victim data and or use a na ve Bayes classifier to classify the user profiles. In some examples the victim data may be collected in the same manner that the user profile data was collected as described above and or may include a list of users not known to have been targeted by phishing attacks.

In one example assessment module may categorize users based on job level and or job type to determine their likely access to sensitive computing resources. Examples of job level may include director intern support contractor individual contributor manager and or executive. Examples of job type may include research quality assurance operations legal engineering sales marketing finance human resources information technology and or technical. In one example a user categorized as an information technology manager may be at a much higher risk for a phishing attack than a user categorized as a human resources contractor due to the former user s higher level of access to sensitive computing resources.

In some examples assessment module may also categorize users based on location. For example assessment module may categorize users based on their country. In some embodiments assessment module may search the Internet to determine a user s country based on other location data in the user s profile such as city region state and or province.

Additionally or alternatively assessment module may categorize users based on the way the users interact with the websites. For example assessment module may calculate activity and or privacy scores for a user based on the amount of the user s activity on social media platforms and or the amount of information the user reveals on social media platforms. Examples of activity may include group membership forum posts wall posts likes shares status updates connections with other users and or comments. In some embodiments a weighted average of the user s job type job level location places visited activity score and or privacy store may be used to determine the user s phishing attack risk. In some examples website specific features such as PEEKSCORE FACEBOOK feeds and or TWEETS may be used to calculate the weighted average.

In some embodiments a machine learning classifier may use a decision tree to calculate the likelihood that a user will be targeted by a phishing attack. is a block diagram of an exemplary computing system for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks by analyzing decision trees.

In one example as illustrated in the machine learning classifier being generated with the set of training data may indicate that being mentioned in media articles about the organization having an at least minimally filled out profile displaying a job title and referencing conference attendance on social media may all be phishing attack risk factors. In this example the machine learning classifier may analyze the user s profile for links to websites where the user is mentioned in media articles about the organization as shown at step . If this is the case the user s risk of phishing attack may be 9 . If not the classifier may then determine whether there are at least 50 words of information in the user s profile at step . If not there is no risk of phishing attack if there are at least 50 words the classifier may progress to step and determine whether the user s job title is visible on social media sites.

If the outcome of the decision at step is no the classifier may move to step and analyze the personal information retrieves from social media platforms to determine if the user mentioned attending any conferences. If there is no such mention of conference attendance the user may have no phishing attack risk. If there is a mention of conference attendance the phishing attack risk may be 3 . If the outcome of the decision at step is yes the classifier may also check for conference attendance mentions at step but the final risk calculation may be different than the results at step . If the user has mentioned conference attendance at step the phishing attack risk may be 9 if not the phishing attack risk may be 5 .

In some embodiments assessment module may use an odds ratio to normalize profiles before performing the analysis. For example the assessment module may discard any feature with an odds ratio of less than one. In some examples assessment module may discard features with similar histograms between previous phishing attack victims and non victims in the training data. Additionally or alternatively assessment module may discard features with similar means for both victims and non victims in the training data.

In some embodiments systems described herein may perform a security action based on the risk of the phishing attack targeting the individual user. The security action may be based on the level of risk based on one or more characteristics of the expected phishing attack and or may be the same for any phishing attack risk.

In some examples systems described herein may define the security action by selecting the security action from a set of potential security actions for addressing phishing attacks based on the phishing attack risk factor and or by configuring the security action with a parameter based on the phishing attack risk factor. In some examples the security action may include 1 adding an email filter for the individual user with at least one keyword derived from the phishing attack risk factor 2 adjusting a privilege of the individual user to access the privileged computing resource and or 3 warning the individual user about the phishing attack risk factor. For example a user whose high phishing attack risk is based on the high volume of information disclosed in their social media profiles may be advised to remove some of the information while a user whose high phishing attack risk is based on their job title may be provided with additional security systems for their computing devices. In another example a user whose high phishing attack risk is based on their conference attendance may be provided with email filters configured to flag keywords such as conference PowerPoint and or workshop. Additionally or alternatively the security action may include increasing the aggressiveness of anti phishing engines for the user generating recommendations for user profile information to hide and or remove altering public profiles of the user educating the user about potential phishing attack risks and or enhancing organizational information security policies for social media. In some embodiments the security action may include performing forensic analysis after a phishing attack has occurred in order to improve future phishing prevention efforts.

As explained above in connection with method in systems described herein may search websites for user profiles of users linked to the organization. In many cases the websites may be social media platforms and or the user profiles may be identified by keywords suggesting employment with the organization. Systems described herein may then retrieve personal information such as names job titles email addresses profile images and or hyperlinks from the user profiles.

Next systems described herein may identify and merge profiles belonging to the same user. The simplest ways of identifying matching profiles are by following hyperlinks between the profiles and or by using unique identifiers such as full names and or email addresses. Absent this information multiple partial identifiers such as partial names profile images job titles and or locations may be used. Once the profiles are merged they may be analyzed for phishing attack risk factors.

Analyzing the merged profiles for phishing attack risk factors may include scanning the profiles for key words and phrases that indicate the user s job title and or activities. Assessing the risk of the spear phishing attack may include categorizing the user by their level of perceived access to sensitive resources due to their job level and or job type. Systems described herein may then perform a security action based on the user s level of risk and or the factors that contributed the risk.

By gathering and analyzing data in a similar manner to the methods used by potential attackers organizations may identify both users in need of additional protection from spear phishing attacks and the forms which these attacks may take. This information may allow organizations to put security measures in place to better educate and protect their users thus reducing the risk of successful spear phishing attacks and preventing the damage such attacks may do to the organization.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of physical processing unit e.g. a hardware implemented central processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an Industry Standard Architecture ISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation Small Computer System Interface SCSI host adapters Universal Serial Bus USB host adapters Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 host adapters Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Parallel ATA PATA Serial ATA SATA and External SATA eSATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable medium. The phrase computer readable medium as used herein generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives tape drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. Compact Disks CDs Digital Video Disks DVDs and BLU RAY disks electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent Network Attached Storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as Network File System NFS Server Message Block SMB or Common Internet File System CIFS .

Servers and may also be connected to a Storage Area Network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for protecting organizations against spear phishing attacks.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

In various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may facilitate multi tenancy within a cloud based computing environment. In other words the software modules described herein may configure a computing system e.g. a server to facilitate multi tenancy for one or more of the functions described herein. For example one or more of the software modules described herein may program a server to enable two or more clients e.g. customers to share an application that is running on the server. A server programmed in this manner may share an application operating system processing system and or storage system among multiple customers i.e. tenants . One or more of the modules described herein may also partition data and or configuration information of a multi tenant application for each customer such that one customer cannot access data and or configuration information of another customer.

According to various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may be implemented within a virtual environment. For example the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtual machine. As used herein the phrase virtual machine generally refers to any operating system environment that is abstracted from computing hardware by a virtual machine manager e.g. a hypervisor . Additionally or alternatively the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtualization layer. As used herein the phrase virtualization layer generally refers to any data layer and or application layer that overlays and or is abstracted from an operating system environment. A virtualization layer may be managed by a software virtualization solution e.g. a file system filter that presents the virtualization layer as though it were part of an underlying base operating system. For example a software virtualization solution may redirect calls that are initially directed to locations within a base file system and or registry to locations within a virtualization layer.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a mobile computing environment. Mobile computing environments may be implemented by a wide range of mobile computing devices including mobile phones tablet computers e book readers personal digital assistants wearable computing devices e.g. computing devices with a head mounted display smartwatches etc. and the like. In some examples mobile computing environments may have one or more distinct features including for example reliance on battery power presenting only one foreground application at any given time remote management features touchscreen features location and movement data e.g. provided by Global Positioning Systems gyroscopes accelerometers etc. restricted platforms that restrict modifications to system level configurations and or that limit the ability of third party software to inspect the behavior of other applications controls to restrict the installation of applications e.g. to only originate from approved application stores etc. Various functions described herein may be provided for a mobile computing environment and or may interact with a mobile computing environment.

In addition all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of interact with consume data produced by and or produce data consumed by one or more systems for information management. As used herein the phrase information management may refer to the protection organization and or storage of data. Examples of systems for information management may include without limitation storage systems backup systems archival systems replication systems high availability systems data search systems virtualization systems and the like.

In some embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of produce data protected by and or communicate with one or more systems for information security. As used herein the phrase information security may refer to the control of access to protected data. Examples of systems for information security may include without limitation systems providing managed security services data loss prevention systems identity authentication systems access control systems encryption systems policy compliance systems intrusion detection and prevention systems electronic discovery systems and the like.

According to some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of communicate with and or receive protection from one or more systems for endpoint security. As used herein the phrase endpoint security may refer to the protection of endpoint systems from unauthorized and or illegitimate use access and or control. Examples of systems for endpoint protection may include without limitation anti malware systems user authentication systems encryption systems privacy systems spam filtering services and the like.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may receive user profile data to be transformed transform the user profile data output a result of the transformation to a machine learning program use the result of the transformation to assess phishing risk factors and store the result of the transformation to a database. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a processor volatile memory non volatile memory and or any other portion of a physical computing device from one form to another by executing on the computing device storing data on the computing device and or otherwise interacting with the computing device.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms connected to and coupled to and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as permitting both direct and indirect i.e. via other elements or components connection. In addition the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. Finally for ease of use the terms including and having and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

