---

title: Methods and apparatus for inserting content into conversations in on-line and digital environments
abstract: Content is inserted into conversations hosted on a takeoff site using creatives that provide lures and links to other material that users engaged in the conversation might find helpful and relevant. Such insertions are made in a contextually meaningful fashion through the use of a matching and decision process that determines best candidate creatives and an appropriate time and place for their insertion into the conversation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621624&OS=09621624&RS=09621624
owner: GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09621624
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140624
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 261 filed on Aug. 29 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 092 filed on Mar. 3 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 583 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 851 489 filed on Aug. 5 2010 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 921 156 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for inserting appropriate links into an ongoing conversation which links point to other material or people that users engaged in the conversation might find helpful and relevant to the conversation.

The World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web is the well known collection of interlinked hypertext documents hosted at a vast number of computer resources hosts communicatively coupled to one another over networks of computer networks known as the Internet. These documents which may include text multimedia files and images are typically viewed as web pages with the aid of a web browser a software application running on a user s computer system. Collections of related web pages that can be addressed relative to a common uniform resource locator URL are known as websites and are typically hosted on one or more web servers accessible via the Internet.

In recent years websites featuring user generated content UGC that is content created and posted to websites by end users have become increasingly popular. UGC accounts for a wide variety of content including news gossip audio video productions photography and social commentary to name but a few. Content of this sort may be presented in any of a variety of forms including web logs blogs comments regarding website editor created content e.g. user reviews of products being offered for sale at a website status updates on social networking sites and question and answer databases commonly known as forums.

Advertisers were quick to recognize the potential power of the Web as it concerns access to potential consumers of goods and services. Models for capitalizing on the insertion of advertisements into websites quickly sprang up. Such advertisements came in various forms including banner ads which appear across portions of a web page and sponsored links which typically appear in designated sections of search result pages. However many Web users find such advertisements to be annoying in that they are often placed in locations of a web page that interrupt the user s reading or interaction with content on the page contextually irrelevant and or otherwise disruptive of the web browsing experience. The situation is compounded when dealing with websites featuring UGC because contributors to such sites often have a low tolerance for advertisements on the sites that are perceived as not relevant to the content. At the same time advertising is one of the primary ways in which website operators offset the cost of producing content and otherwise maintaining websites.

In various embodiments the present invention provides methods and systems for inserting content into a takeoff page hosted on a takeoff site. The content referred to as creatives provide links deemed to be appropriate contextually and or otherwise for insertion in conjunction with a message hosted at the takeoff page. The message may be a constituent of a broader conversation hosted at the takeoff page and the links included in the creatives may point to material that users engaged in the conversation might hopefully will find helpful and or relevant to the conversation.

The present process may make use of a matching engine typically hosted on a server other than that hosting the takeoff site. The matching engine is configured to construct a set of candidate creatives. That is for each of a plurality of landing sites and templates consisting of some combination of text audio and or visual elements and on the basis of similarities between content on the takeoff page content on respective landing pages of the landing sites and content of each respective one of the templates the matching engine creates a pool of candidate landing pages and candidate templates for the takeoff page. Then a set of candidate creatives are created by combining URLs of the candidate landing pages with the candidate templates. These candidate creatives may be ranked in the context of the message on the takeoff page and from the ranked list of the candidate creatives a set of these creatives may be selected for display in conjunction with the conversation at the takeoff page. One or more or in some cases none of the selected creatives may then be delivered to the takeoff site and displayed in conjunction with the conversation at the takeoff page.

Determining which if any of the creatives to be displayed may include incorporating information concerning user interaction with previous instances of the candidate creatives when inserted into takeoff pages information concerning experience with previous instances of the candidate templates or portions thereof each candidate template can be regarded as including one or more slots including such elements as an introduction a call to action and or a photo and or information concerning statistics relating to the conversation on the takeoff site. Determining which if any of the creatives to be displayed may include accounting for campaign management requirements. Further determining which if any of the creatives to be displayed may include information about the devices on which the creative may be displayed. For example screen size limit or text string length limit.

Hence the present invention provides means for creating links between content of different modes for example a takeoff page made up of UGC and a landing page comprised of curated content or a takeoff page made up of curated content and a landing page comprised one of UGC or any combination of the foregoing. These and other examples of the features and use of the present invention are described further below.

In view of the above described shortcomings of current Web based advertising models the present inventors have recognized a need for a new paradigm for inserting advertising and or other content into websites or other venues at which UGC and more generally conversational content is hosted. Accordingly in various embodiments the present invention provides methods and systems to insert advertisements or other content usually in the form of sounds pictures text and or hyperlinks links or other direction aiding materials into an ongoing conversation often instantiated in the form of UGC hosted on a social media or other website but may also include other forms of conversations such as instant message IM or similar conversations Twitter tweets social network page commentary e mail threads forum hosted discussion boards etc. some of which may be instantiated within the confines of a particular software application instead of or in addition to being posted at one or more websites which point to other material e.g. material accessible via a URL that users e.g. participants in the ongoing conversation or others that are monitoring the conversation might find helpful and relevant to the subject conversation. The paradigm is thus one of a conversational aid rather than a mere mechanism for inserting advertising.

By analyzing the contents of sites such as web pages forums and other forms of social media systems configured in accordance with the present invention are able to insert links and associated text at appropriate points directing users to other online material that may be helpful to them. To maximize the relevance of these suggestions to users these systems are preferably designed to detect and respond to important conversational indicators such as particular types of speech act expressed within an online posting. The systems envisage the ability to detect speech acts at a general level incorporating a taxonomy of utterances that can be categorized according to factors such as their purpose their expressed psychological state sentiment and their propositional content. Typical taxonomies include categories such as assertives The Sky is Blue directives Can you tell me the way to San Jose and expressives I m feeling very badly about that. By matching the type of speech act presented by an author against the content from a set of potential recommended links the present systems can select and display those whose tenor tone and meaning are most relevant to the authored utterance. For example a query directive could be linked to content that provides either a direct answer to the question being asked or to other material that may be helpful. An expression of sadness could be linked to content that acknowledges the author s emotion.

In one example of a system configured in accordance with the present invention the system includes a component that focuses on the detection of queries within a stream of textual content. There are broadly speaking two types of queries 

The first task of this system is to assess which textual features are important for distinguishing between queries and non queries. This is accomplished by first analyzing the training corpus mentioned above and extracting every unigram bi gram and tri gram. Tokens used in the n gram analysis include all words and all punctuation in the corpus utterances. Next the system calculates the mutual information between the occurrence of a selected n gram within an utterance and whether the utterance is a query or a non query. The mutual information is a standard measure of the correlation between two variables.

We also define p x y as the probability across all utterances in the training corpus that the selected n gram occurs in an utterance and that the utterance is a query. Similarly we define p1 x and p1 y as the respective marginal distributions of p x y . These distributions are all straightforward to compute from the training corpus. The Mutual Information is then given by MI Sum  log 1 1 

Having computed the mutual information for each possible n gram across the training corpus the system now ranks each n gram according to its mutual information measure. Table 1 below shows an example of such a ranking from a fictitious corpus.

After selecting a set of important n gram features the system is trained by presenting the known training exemplars of query and non query utterances to a binary support vector machine. The resulting predictive classifier is then used as necessary to predict the classification of any previously unseen utterance as either query or non query. A variant of the above approach in which groups of selected tokens are collapsed and treated as a single mega token e.g. pronoun tokens I we anyone you he she they all counted as a single mega token pronoun subject may also be used.

In discussing the features of the present invention we will use the term creative to designate that portion of the content being inserted into the conversation which is intended for presentation to the conversation participants and or others i.e. intended to be viewed by them but this should not be read as restricting the present invention solely to means for inserting commercial content. By creatives we mean a broader construct which includes some combination of the above mentioned links or other direction aiding materials and any text audio and or visual elements.

As discussed below creatives may be defined by templates which may include positions for introductory words or phrases themes calls to action URLs of landing pages etc. In effect these templates define a sort of slot grammar for the creatives. This allows for variants of creatives where one or more items of the creative are fixed and the other components are iterated to form different combinations. Such sets of creatives may be referred to as a variation set.

The location s at which the creatives are presented which is generally also the location at which the conversation is taking place is referred to as a takeoff site and the location s to which users are directed when they click on one of the links or follow the direction aiding materials is referred to as a landing site but this should not be read as restricting the present invention solely to websites. In the context of takeoff and landing sites the term site is intended to encompass respectively any environment where conversations may occur and any environment to which the conversation participants or others reading the conversation might be directed.

Takeoff sites include takeoff pages at which individual conversations or portions thereof may be displayed instantiated or presented. Landing sites include landing pages at which the content deemed to be of interest to the conversation participants or others reading the conversation may be hosted or otherwise made accessible. Thus while a takeoff site is typically a social media site at which users are engaged in some sort of network enabled social conversation with one or more other users this need not necessarily be the case and the term may also encompass software applications in which conversations are hosted as well as IM threads etc. Likewise landing sites can consist of either other on line conversations on social media sites including but not limited to the same site as the takeoff site or sites containing curated content but may also be software applications IM threads etc. The aim is to enrich a user s social media experience and also enhance the value of curated content and existing conversational threads by providing users with natural entry points to new conversations that key off important elements of a conversation which they are already viewing or engaging in.

Creatives may be portions of larger constructs which we refer to as payloads . A payload may include content in addition to a creative which other content is not itself intended for display to conversation participants or others but which may be used to direct placement of the creative within a takeoff page to gather statistics from the takeoff page or provide for or perform another function. For example a payload may include computer readable instructions or computer interpretable tags or other information. In some instances a creative will be the sole constituent of a payload but this is not necessarily so.

To better understand the context in which the present methods and systems operate consider the network illustrated in . Included in this network are various servers each hosting one or more takeoff sites . Each takeoff site may include one or more takeoff pages . As mentioned above the takeoff sites may be social media sites in which users are engaged in some sort of on line social conversation with other users but may be any sites at which UGC is posted e.g. in the form of an on line conversation . Hence the takeoff pages may be forum pages blogs social network sites chat windows product or other review pages etc.

Also part of network are a number of servers hosting landing sites any or each of which may be made up of a plurality of landing pages . Notice that a server hosting a takeoff site with one or more takeoff pages may also host one or more landing sites any or each of which may include one ore more landing pages . That is any server may host any combination of takeoff and or landing sites. When we refer to content on a takeoff site or landing site we mean to include content that is located on a particular takeoff page of a takeoff site or landing page of a landing site as appropriate.

The takeoff and landing sites are accessed by users via client systems . The client systems may in some cases be computer systems such as personal computers or the like but more generally may be any computer based or processor based device that executes application software which allows the content of the takeoff landing site to be rendered for display to the user on a display device. For example client systems may include computer systems mobile devices such as iPads smart phones mobile phones etc. and the application software may be web browser software such as Microsoft Corporation s Internet Explorer Apple Inc. s Safari or Google Inc. s Chrome or instant messaging software such as Apple Inc. s iChat America Online Inc. s AIM etc. Such applications are typically stored in one or more computer readable storage devices accessible to one or more processors of the subject client system and when executed cause the processor s to perform the operations necessary to render the subject sites pages for display at the subject system e.g. via a display device communicatively coupled to the processor . The various constituents of network are communicatively coupled to one another via one or more computer data networks which may include the Internet and other networks coupled thereto. The precise nature of network is not critical to the present invention.

Of course network also includes server which hosts a matching engine and a decision engine . The matching and decision engines together implement an embodiment of the present invention however in other embodiments the functions of these two engines may be combined in a single computer implemented entity or in multiple distributed entities. Accordingly the embodiment illustrated in should be regarded as merely a convenient example for purposes of the following discussion and not as a limitation of the present invention.

Matching engine is configured for the automatic detection of various features within a subject takeoff site landing site and creatives respectively that enable the creatives when inserted into the on line conversation present on the takeoff site to act as attractive lures inducing users e.g. users associated with client systems to explore via selection of the links included in the creatives material present on the landing site s that is relevant to the conversation on the takeoff site. In some cases the creatives including their associated links to the landing sites are the advertisements or ads referred to above.

Creatives may be fashioned using templates and in one embodiment of the invention a library of templates is stored in and obtained from a templates database which is communicatively coupled to the matching engine. This templates database may be hosted at the same or a different server than the matching engine. A separate or common database of landing page URLs is also maintained either at server or another server and is likewise communicatively coupled and accessible to the matching engine .

Among the features which the matching engine may be configured to detect is textual similarity between text found on the takeoff site the landing site and the templates. Of course there are other important signals that can trigger associations in a user s mind such as the detection of particular speech acts in the takeoff site as noted above. For example the detection of implicit or explicit queries can be used to trigger the presentation of a link to a landing site that either addresses the query directly or provides some helpful information to the questioner. The present system thus provides a framework for blending together multiple features in the creative selection process.

As noted above the term speech act is intended to refer to a specific utterance on a takeoff site. The canonical example is a question . A user can communicate that an utterance is a question by the use of a question mark. Hence the matching engine is configured to monitor takeoff sites takeoff pages looking for question marks e.g. identified by ASCII code or other means and then examine the preceding text to determine what question is being posed. Of course there are many other ways that users express need for information in conversations. For example in a help forum the statement of a problem may be an implicit question e.g. My monitor has wavy lines. This can be regarded as a request for an explanation and help with the problem. Accordingly the matching engine is configured to monitor and parse the content of takeoff sites looking for such problem statements. Other speech acts which the matching engine may be configured to interpret include assertions complaints requests for action and so on.

Thus creatives may be regarded as the combination of a template and a link to a landing site page. Creatives are not however purely arbitrary sentences they are designed to have a structure tailored to the context of the conversation in which they are to be inserted. As illustrated in a creative may be thought of as consisting of slots including a slot for a template and another slot for a URL or other direction aiding material to the landing site page. The templates may be made up of an introduction which is indented to identify the reason and source of message e.g. for more information about x y z . . . or We at company x believe that you can get valuable sources of help at . . . and a call to action which invites the user to do something. The minimal form of such an invitation may be to click on a link i.e. to select a link to the landing site by executing a mouse click while the screen cursor displayed on a client system is indicating the URL portion of the creative but the call to action can go beyond this to some form of cognitive action like learn study understand see etc.

The entries or content for each slot of a creative may be derived from background knowledge or experience of an operator or administrator of an ad insertion service that operates server e.g. an advertising professional who might have developed certain kinds of preferred introductions for different situations as well as content gleaned automatically from the takeoff and landing sites or related domain content e.g. Wikipedia content regarding a particular subject or content from similar conversations . Concepts or themes are sets of words that express some fundamental meaning of the domain e.g. when discussing automobiles the term sports utility vehicle has a certain connotation and such concepts can be entities or properties of entities such as SSRI side effects or user intentions like great value deal . The introduction will tend to be the template component that contains references to such concepts e.g. for information about SSRI side effects . . . while the call to action will tend to reference the user cognitive action to be taken and a landing page address. Of course template slots other than just introductions and calls to action may also be present in the templates and if present these too would be populated when creating the templates database. For example a slot called conversational reference which can contain references to content or properties of the conversation may be employed. Or some templates may have two possible calls to action e.g. do x OR do y . The full set of creatives is therefore the set of all possible compositions of the elements from each of the slots.

In accordance with the present invention the template and landing page databases may be populated on an on going basis and used to formulate the creative s . In the case of the templates database this involves populating each of the introduction and call to action slots with candidates and storing the results. That is server e.g. the matching engine or a separate template creation engine not shown in detail may automatically create all possible combinations of introductions and calls to action the product of the two and store these combinations in template database . For the landing page database a crawl an API call or other content gathering means may be employed to populate database . The full inventory of possible creatives may then be created by appending all possible landing page URLs from the landing page database to each template from the template database and storing the results in a creative database . Creatives may be created in advance and or real time or quasi real time for example in response to a trigger.

Once the various databases have been populated assuming they are used the essence of the matching process is the detection of similarities e.g. textual similarities between three elements 1 content on a specific takeoff page 2 content on a specific candidate landing page and 3 the contents of the candidate creative presented to be presented to the user on the takeoff page and pointing to the landing page.

In order to better make this point an example may be helpful. Consider the textual content of a conversation on a takeoff site such as a forum. A single conversation generally consists of a series of individual messages contributed by a set of authors the initial message is usually termed a post and is typically followed by some number of replies . The initial post that seeds the conversation typically consists of two parts a title usually a single sentence or question and a body a narrative that follows the post title. The replies typically only consist of narrative entries with no title.

The matching engine fetches and stores in a message store the contents of a given message M either the initial post or one of its replies upon encountering it for the first time. It then analyses the contents of the message and stores it again e.g. in a designated section of the message store which may be a computer readable storage medium such as a non volatile memory hard disk or the like in vector representation form denoted V M . In one example we use a bag of words representation model whereby each position in the vector is associated with a word token and the value at a given position in the vector represents the importance of the associated token within the message M. Importance can be measured in several different ways including 

In addition to analysing and storing the contents of new takeoff pages the matching engine analyses and stores the contents of the pool of candidate templates and the pool of candidate landing pages. As mentioned the candidate landing pages are typically obtained by either receiving a content feed making an API call or performing a crawl of one or more landing sites and the candidate creatives are typically generated either by hand or by a set of heuristics based on textual analysis of the respective takeoff and landing sites. The candidate templates and candidate landing pages are like the messages on takeoff pages represented in vector form based on a bag of words model V T denoting the vector representation of template T and V L denoting the vector representation of landing page L.

Given a particular message or group of messages M candidate template T and candidate landing page L the matching engine may in one embodiment of the invention calculate a textual similarity score as follows Score textual     The dot operator above denotes a simple pairwise dot product between the respective vector arguments. The weights W T and W L are adjustable weights defined by the service provider which weights allow for emphasizing the relative importance of matching template text to a given takeoff page message over that of the landing page content by selecting W T to be greater than W L for example.

With this scoring function in mind an example of a process for determining the best creatives to provide on a given takeoff site is illustrated in .

Initially at a pool of N L candidate landing pages L is specified. This pool may include some or all of the landing page URLs from landing page database . In the event fewer than all of the landing page URLs from the database are included in the pool the subset of candidates may be stored separately or otherwise indicated through the use of appropriate flags in the database records.

At a pool of N T of candidate templates T that are relevant in some way to the landing pages is determined. This may be done by manual or computational analysis of the landing and or takeoff pages as specified above. This pool may include some or all of the candidates from templates database . In the event fewer than all of the templates from the database are included in the pool the subset of candidates may be stored separately or otherwise indicated through the use of appropriate flags in the database records.

Next the matching engine or a separate creative formation engine constructs a set of N T N L candidate creatives . Each creative consists of the text for template T and the URL for landing page L i.e. the information to be displayed on a takeoff page.

For any given takeoff message M obtained by the matching engine the set of N T N L creatives are ranked against message M using the Score textual formula described above . The matching engine discards all but the top p creatives in the ranking where p is an operator defined threshold e.g. m 20 etc. . These p creatives are passed to a decision engine .

From the top p creatives the decision engine selects q creatives to be displayed at the takeoff site where q may be a service provider defined parameter. e.g. 1 or more or may be determined dynamically by the decision engine. The decision about how many creatives to display may be based on a number of criteria and may result in no creatives being displayed for a given takeoff message M. For example in making such determinations the decision engine may be configured to take into account factors such as information delivered from the landing page payload constituents other than the creative and or conversational statistics regarding the takeoff page etc. Conversational statistics of this nature may include information regarding how frequently the conversation is being updated the last time the conversation was updated the results attributable to previously displayed creatives and so on.

If creatives are to be provided for display the decision engine passes the q creatives or links to same to the subject takeoff site where the q creatives are displayed near i.e. in a contextually relevant location for takeoff message M . For example the creatives may be displayed next in order in the conversation thread or may be displayed alongside the conversation thread so as not to be disruptive thereto. This may be accomplished through the use of instructions included with the creative in the payload code injected into the takeoff page or by code in a software application which code or instructions direct the placement of the creatives from server . The process continues for further takeoff page messages or quits according to service provider instruction number of iterations per takeoff site or other indicator.

The present invention thus determines for a given message or group of messages in a conversation e.g. an on line conversation presented at a takeoff page a best available combination of a template and suitable landing page whose contents taken together match or are most contextually relevant for the contents of that message or group of messages . If there is a sufficiently strong match that template and the URL of the landing page or links to same are provided for display on the takeoff page e.g. in a contextually relevant location with respect to the takeoff message thereby providing a recommendation to the people engaged in or monitoring the conversation of additional content that can enhance their conversational experience.

The matching procedure described above provides a method for selecting relevant creatives based on textual data available from the takeoff page s templates and landing page s . This process may be enhanced to take into account other information for example feedback available from usage logs that track user interaction with the creatives such as mouseovers or clicks and or subsequent user actions such as product purchases or page visits within a landing site. That is an adaptive component which takes into account user behavior can be added to the above described matching procedure by for example altering the score of a given landing page depending on the clickthrough response a creative has received in the past user behavior at the landing site or other user behavior of interest.

Further the process of building templates may lead to pools of templates that are strongly related by a common thematic element. Consider for example the following templates 

In addition to the similarity measures and click based measures discussed above other criteria can also be used to provide augmented rules for triggering the presentation of one or more creatives against a given takeoff message. These include the overall sentiment of the message and the type of speech act that it represents e.g. a questions vs. a statement etc. .

The foregoing discussion highlights the ability of the present system to provide system operators with conversational strategies that is strategies for content insertions in conversations. For example recall that in the construction of a creative there are a number of slots that can be filled. If we regard the theme as one such slot then for a fixed theme the content of the other creative slots can be permitted to vary and the set of results will be thematically invariant but otherwise distinct creatives. Different ones of these creatives can then be used within one or more conversational contexts and the results monitored to determine which is the best set of creative content for the defined theme. Stated differently the present infrastructure allows a determination of a solution to the question which creative content is best for a given theme.

Other problem constructs may involve determining the best time to insert a creative into a conversation. For example analysis of the results of inserting creatives into conversations of varying conversational velocity or into one conversation under conditions of different conversational velocity may reveal information that allows service providers to chose optimum or near optimum times to insert future creatives so as to maximize the likelihood that URLs associated with those creatives will be selected by participants in the conversation.

The sum of the results from these kinds of learning instances facilitated by the above described infrastructure gives rise to conversational strategies. Stated differently the present invention provides means for determining what theme to match with what creative content when best to insert creatives in a conversation and a host of other information relative to deciding which content to insert in which conversations and when. Such decision means are embodied in the two step process that matches creatives and the content from takeoff pages and then creatives plus takeoff pages with appropriate landing pages.

As is apparent from the foregoing discussion aspects of the present invention involve the use of various computer systems and computer readable storage media having computer readable instructions stored thereon. provides an example of a computer system that is representative of any of the servers or client systems discussed herein. Note not all of the various computer systems may have all of the features of computer system . For example certain of the servers discussed above may not include a display inasmuch as the display function may be provided by a client computer communicatively coupled to the server. Such details are not critical to the present invention. Computer systems such as computer system may be referred to by other names for example as hand held devices mobile devices smart phones multiprocessor systems microprocessor based electronic devices digital signal processor based devices networked computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers servers laptop computers tablet computers and the like. Such labels are not critical to the present invention.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with the bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A storage device which may be one or more of a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk flash memory based storage medium magnetic tape or other magnetic storage medium a compact disk CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD ROM or other optical storage medium or any other storage medium from which processor can read is provided and coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions e.g. operating systems applications programs and the like .

Computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a flat panel display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display . Other user interface devices such as microphones speakers etc. are not shown in detail but may be involved with the receipt of user input and or presentation of output.

The processes referred to herein may be implemented by processor executing appropriate sequences of computer readable instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device and execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the associated actions. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry or firmware controlled processing units e.g. field programmable gate arrays may be used in place of or in combination with processor and its associated computer software instructions to implement the invention. The computer readable instructions may be rendered in any computer language including without limitation C C C Fortran COBOL PASCAL assembly language markup languages e.g. HTML SGML XML VoXML and the like as well as object oriented environments such as the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Java and the like. In general all of the aforementioned terms are meant to encompass any series of logical steps performed in a sequence to accomplish a given purpose which is the hallmark of any computer executable application. Unless specifically stated otherwise it should be appreciated that throughout the description of the present invention use of terms such as processing computing calculating determining displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of an appropriately programmed computer system such as computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within its registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within its memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to the bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication channel with a computer network such as network in which provides connectivity to and among the various servers discussed above. For example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN which itself is communicatively coupled to the Internet through one or more Internet service provider networks. The precise details of such communication paths are not critical to the present invention. What is important is that computer system can send and receive messages and data through the communication interface and in that way communication with hosts accessible via the Internet.

The various databases described herein are computer based record keeping systems. Stated differently these databases are each a combination of computer hardware and software that acts together to allow for the storage and retrieval of information data . Accordingly they may resemble computer system and are often characterized by having storage mediums capable of accommodating significant amounts of information.

The various hardware components of computer system are represented as a hardware layer . An operating system abstracts the hardware layer and acts as a host for various applications that run on computer system . In the case of server the operating system acts as a host for a matching engine and decision engine which are configured to perform the processes described above to provide ad insertions. For a server and or the operating system may host a web server application which provides access from the client computers via web browsers. Such a web server may also be hosted on server to provide an interface by which the host servers and may communicate with server . In the case of a client system the operating system acts as a host for a Web browser application but not a matching engine decision engine or typically a web server .

As alluded to above network may include the Internet and the various servers and client computers communicatively coupled thereto may include computer systems such as computer system that are made up of one or more processors associated memory typically volatile and non volatile and other storage devices and peripherals that allow for connection to the Internet or other networks. The precise hardware configuration of the hosting and client resources is generally not critical to the present invention nor are the precise algorithms used to implement the services and methods described herein. Instead the focus is on the nature of the services provided by the present invention.

Insofar as the foregoing discussion concerns domains URLs links and the like it should help to understand that in order to facilitate communications between hosts on the Internet each host has a numerical Internet protocol IP address and a unique fully qualified domain name. In the case of the hypothetical host with an IP address of 123.456.78.91 the fully qualified domain name might be computer.domain.com . In its most generic form a fully qualified domain name consists of three elements a hostname computer a domain name domain and a top level domain com . A given host looks up the IP addresses of other hosts on the Internet through a system known as domain name service. If an Internet user desires to establish a connection with a Web page hosted at computer.domain.com the Internet user might enter into a Web browser program a URL that includes the domain name and domain of the host e.g. http www.domain.com where the first element of the URL is a transfer protocol most commonly http standing for hypertext transfer protocol www standing for the World Wide Web and domain.com collectively these elements other than the transfer protocol are an alias for the fully qualified domain name of the host computer.domain.com . Once a URL is entered into the browser the domain name service matches it to and provides the corresponding IP address 123.456.78.91 allowing the browser to contact the desired host. Hyperlinks or links are then specially encoded portions of a web page often a name or other text that include a reference to a host by way of such aliases or IP addresses.

Thus methods and systems for inserting appropriate links into an ongoing conversation which links point to other material that users engaged in the conversation might find helpful and relevant to the conversation have been described. The matching function provided by the present invention uses as inputs models of content from a landing page a creative the message to be inserted into a takeoff page and content from the takeoff page. The models of these components can be words or other labels derived by other means including but not limited to speech act labels entities or other special words or contributor properties. The resulting match can be regarded as a two part match involving a match between the creative and the content from the takeoff page and then the creative plus the takeoff page and the landing page. Weights control which match is emphasized in the final score. The matching process outputs a scored list of possible creatives for insertion in the takeoff page and a separate decision mechanism makes the final selection from that scored list. This decision process can take into account various factors such as campaign management requirements e.g. creative exposure limits and conversational statistics to decide whether to place a creative or which creative to deliver. Further determining which if any of the creatives to be displayed may include information about the devices on which the creative may be displayed. For example screen size limit or text string length limit.

In various embodiments of the invention the decision process may also incorporate learning based on past experiences with the creatives. For example user interaction with previous instances of the creatives when inserted into takeoff pages may be tracked and used when deciding which if any creatives to provide for insertion. Moreover such experience may be used in the matching process when deciding which introductions calls to action and other components to combine with one another to form a creative. Likewise past experience with creative placement within a takeoff page may be monitored by server and used to aid the decision about when to insert a creative in a takeoff page. Further features or metrics regarding the conversation such as conversational velocity may be monitored and used as a guide for deciding whether and when to insert creatives. Such functions may be incorporated in either the decision engine or matching engine as appropriate.

In the foregoing discussion the focus has been on creating links to guide users from conversational content to curated content but in general the present methods and systems may be employed to create and insert links between any content of different modes. So for example the present methods and systems can be used to deliver curated content to sites hosting conversational content. In this regard curated content can be regarded broadly as any content under editorial control of a site operator or even profiles of individuals e.g. Web based biographies or profiles commonly associated with social networking sites or service provider sites . For example links to such profiles may be used to suggest certain people e.g. a subject matter expert to join a conversation or answer a question or even the reverse i.e. suggest that a person join a particular conversation because he she would provide information of value to that conversation. Thus the referral process afforded by the present invention operates in a direction from conversation to curated a takeoff page hosting conversational content to a landing page hosting curated content or vice versa. Indeed one could use the present methods for mapping conversations to conversations for example across on line communities.

Given the various instances in which the present systems and methods find application it should be recognized that the examples presented in the foregoing description were provided merely for purposes of illustration and should not be read as unduly limiting the present invention.

