---

title: Method and system for continuous atomic layer deposition
abstract: A system and method for continuous atomic layer deposition. The system and method includes a housing, a moving bed which passes through the housing, a plurality of precursor gases and associated input ports and the amount of precursor gases, position of the input ports, and relative velocity of the moving bed and carrier gases enabling exhaustion of the precursor gases at available reaction sites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09598769&OS=09598769&RS=09598769
owner: UCHICAGO ARGONNE, LLC
number: 09598769
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140723
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 857 798 filed Jul. 24 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The U.S. Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Government and the University of Chicago and or pursuant to DE AC 02 06 CH11357 between the U.S. Government and the UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This invention relates in general to an improved system and method for atomic layer deposition ALD hereafter . In particular the invention relates to a new method and system for ALD deposition processing and manufacture of end product by using self limiting reaction condition to avoid need of enclosures and purge areas for separation of two or more reacting gases. Consequently there is no need for dosing valves since precursor flows continuously and there is 100 material utilization as part of the subject ALD method. Further a low vapor pressure precursor can be used with a fast moving conveyance system and there is no need for isolation of different reaction zones nor for use of system components having strict tolerance features either chemically or mechanically.

Among the techniques used to deposit thin films chemical vapor deposition CVD hereinafter is a method that exposes substrates to one or more reacting gases. The non volatile decomposition product is a solid material that accumulates on the substrate in the form of a thin film.

A variant of CVD is atomic layer deposition ALD as previously noted . In this technique surfaces are exposed to gaseous species that exhibit limited reactivity that is that the reaction and therefore the growth shuts itself down after all surface reacting sites are consumed. Conventional ALD is carried out by sequentially exposing surfaces to two or more different gaseous species. The growth during each exposure is self limited and this leads to homogeneous films.

In a more recent innovation of the ALD method these sequential exposures mentioned above are separated not in time but in space. In one configuration a surface is moved across different enclosures each of them containing a different gaseous species. In a second configuration the surface is at rest and a movable head containing two or more different enclosures is moved over the surface resulting in alternate exposures to the reacting gases. Combinations of these two configurations also form part of the prior art.

All these prior art designs share a common feature the need to physically isolate one gas from the other to avoid gas phase reactions between the two species and this feature would effectively kill the self limited nature of ALD. Since there must be relative motion between the surface and the enclosure wherein the gas is dosed it is not possible to have an airtight sealing of the gaseous species. Instead a fraction of the species will diffuse out of the enclosure through the space between the moving substrate and the enclosure walls. Moreover both the excess gas that does not react with the surface and the gas that escapes from the enclosure need to be removed from the system. This methodology requires the implementation of different purge strategies including purge regions separating enclosures with two different kinds of gases to quickly remove the gas before it leads to undesired gas phase reactions or the use of high pressure gas to act as effective barriers between the different enclosures. Therefore such prior art systems and methods require construction of complicated structures and highly demanding chemical processing conditions which make difficult and impractical the use of ALD for most commercial applications.

The method and system of the invention most preferably includes use of a fixed precursor gas being injected over a moving bed or conveyance coordinated such that the amount of precursor molecules released is less than the available reaction sites presented on a reaction surface by the moving bed web incident to the flow. This methodology leads to the complete exhaustion of precursor gas with no need for removal ports no precursor waste and no purge stages being needed. The spacing of these injection ports is sufficient such that all precursor is adsorbed onto the moving bed web surface before the next precursor injection port is encountered and thus no purge stage is required. For multiple ALD layers the bed web can be made long enough to accommodate multiple precursor injection ports with sufficient spacing between them or the bed web can move back and forth under the fixed or even adjustable position injection ports.

Fixed saturation ALD will lead to about 99 coverage dependent on dwell time while this invention based on precursor exhaustion will result in 95 coverage with only random holes in the coverage . However since operational ALD requires at least several passes these coverage differences will be likely filled in or washed out. Since this invention s approach is so much simpler than present spatial ALD solutions the method and system will result in much cheaper equipment to be used no gas bearings no purge system no pump out zones no complicated injector timing etc. . In addition there will be much less need for precision tolerances for system set up and maintenance increased equipment up time lower equipment maintenance higher throughput elimination of expensive wasted precursor elimination of waste precursor separation or disposal requirements much tighter coverage distribution and thus much higher quality product with a much more easily controlled process.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

While the inputs and can include any valves and dosing mechanisms known in the prior art including the ability to pulse the reactants the embodiment of works without having to pulse the insertion of reactants that is it can work under constant dose of the precursors A and or B. The system and method avoids the presence of gas phase reaction under self limiting conditions by controlling the amount of the precursor dosed through system and in such a way that 1 the rate of consumption is faster than the rate of precursor insertion and 2 precursor A is completely consumed before reaching the input . This aspect of the invention can be estimated in ways that will be explained hereinafter. In the case of the design of the dimensions of the system the distance between the inputs and velocity of the substrate or the web and average flow velocity are all important parameters determining the amount of precursor dosed. In addition to this the reactivity of the precursors will also condition the amount of the precursors A and B that can be inserted in the system without negatively affecting the quality of the product material.

4. Reasonable reactor sizes no small tolerances robust against web vibration and other perturbations of a moving wall system.

5. Reactor size decreases with higher reaction probabilities suitable for large surface area substrates.

A variety of operating regimes can exist for the system illustrated in and variations on this embodiment can function in a pure ALD mode with self limited chemistry which can be deduced from models of precursor reactor and transport under ALD conditions. These models described hereinafter can produce good agreement under conventional ALD operations.

Considering the steady state equations of a precursor flowing into the system with moving walls and where the surface chemistry is given by a first order irreversible Langmuir kinetics two regimes can be distinguished. These two regimes depend on an excess number defined as the number of molecules per surface site and the ratio of the flow and web velocity 

Where Sis the average area of a surface site nis the precursor density at the entrance of the inputs and V and S are the volume and the surface of the system u is the average flow velocity and is the surface or web velocity.

These regions of reaction are shown substantially in . When u 1 complete saturation is achieved and the remaining precursor keeps flowing downstream. This region requires the isolation of the two precursors and it is unsuitable for the one embodiment given in . This region correspond to the operating conditions of the prior art. However when u 

Note that while in conventional CVD methods complete consumption of the precursor is expected after a long enough distance of travel in a reactor the existence of such region is not guaranteed under ALD conditions. Only when the precursor flows are carefully chosen to ensure the self extinguishing condition it is then possible to run the system such as that depicted in to carry out the highly desirable form of ALD described herein. Also note that two different operating conditions are possible one in which the flow and the reactor surface of the web move in the same direction and another one in which they move in opposite directions.

The separation between the inputs and depends on the velocity of the web the vertical dimension of the reactor zone of the system the mean thermal velocity the reaction probability the coverage and the tolerance that is required for the process. Characteristic values are shown in showing how separations of the order of ten centimeters can be achieved under selected optimal conditions.

This formula above can further be used to estimate the distance between the inputs and . Also from the results obtained it is clear that one critical parameter in the design feature is the bare reaction probability of the precursor. Therefore it is important to understand the chemistry of the precursor in order to adapt the experimental setup to a particular one of the system . Likewise the design of the system also can affect the distance between injectors. In is shown the influence of width d on the characteristic length of precursor consumption under preferred ALD conditions.

The distances shown in have to be understood as upper boundaries with respect to a real system since they are calculated using a one dimensional model which is equivalent to assuming an injection slit. If the system uses point inputs and the distance is reduced due to the influence of diffusion perpendicular to the direction of the flow.

While more complex simulations can be used to simulate the interaction between the flow and the moving walls of the web the formula as presented above captures the main features of the system and the ratio u can be chosen from more accurate and well known computational fluid dynamic simulations.

The results show that a high reaction probability affects positively the distance between the inputs and . This makes the method ideal to coat high surface area materials since the effective reaction probability on high surface area materials is larger than that on planar substrates. In is shown how the method and the system can be adapted to the coating of high surface area materials for instance a catalyst support . In we have the system being similar to that presented in except that prior to its treatment in the ALD system particles are deposited onto the moving surface of the web . Therefore the moving surface acts as a conveyor belt for the particles allowing their treatment in a continuous operation. Examples of this method can include methods to synthesize catalyst in a continuous operation by the ALD or to modify electrode materials for energy storage applications such as batteries.

In another embodiment since the results above show a correlation between the dosing and the velocity of the surface of the web in an embodiment is shown which is similar to that of with an enclosure body or housing in which a moving surface is fed and coated by one or more inputs and connecting the housing to a precursor reservoir or feed system . In this embodiment there is included a flow controller that establishes a feedback between the velocity of the web and the amount of precursor dosed. Through use of the flow controller the precursor flow is controlled as a function of the velocity of the web and the velocity of the web is controlled as a function of the flow. Therefore a bi directional feedback between velocity and reactant flow is established. Through the use of the controller the system ensures its operation under the self extinguishing regime as described hereinafter. One possible mode of operation of this embodiment of the system is shown schematically in through which the system periodically measures the velocity of the web and adjusts the pressure to ensure that the system works under self extinguishing conditions.

In yet another embodiment shown in the system is similar to that described in the previous figures and includes a plasma discharge generated downstream of the input . This plasma discharge can be used to activate precursor A or otherwise incorporate a treatment process to the moving surface of the web is added downstream of the precursor dose. As an example of an application of this embodiment one could carry out a plasma etching process can be done under conditions in which the precursor is unreactive to a particular gas that is fed into the housing of the system but that when activated through a plasma discharge generates localized species that alter a deposition surface inducing for instance the etching of organic substances.

In a further embodiment shown in the system includes the moving surface for the web fed at a certain velocity. Over the moving surface there is a rotating head . This head contains inputs and that feed reactants into a chamber directly over the moving surface . The inputs and can be single point injectors or slides. The dosing is controlled through an axle either by feeding a signal that opens a reservoir inside the head or by directly feeding the gases into the inputs and . Conventional prior art mechanisms can be included in the spinning form of the head to purge the gases from the system and to control the gap between the surface and the rotating head through the use of a high flow of gas a gas bearing . In the embodiment the rotating head has no mechanisms for purging the excess gas or otherwise to maintain a gap or isolate the chambers based on the use of large flows. Instead the system described in relies on the control of the flow to achieve advantageous self extinguishing ALD conditions described above.

In additional embodiments reasonable generalizations of the systems described above include but are not limited to the use of more than two channels of the system the variation of the spacing between the different channels the use of more than one moving surfaces of the web and the adaptation of the reactor geometry to curved surfaces that could be used to treat surfaces directly on a roll.

The method and system adaptation described herein can be applied to any method or arrangement able to operate in an ALD mode thermal plasma and radical assisted and UV assisted and can be used for applications such as catalysis photovoltaics transparent electronics energy storage barrier coatings for organic photovoltaics and organic light emitting diodes and transparent conducting oxide materials. This method is particularly well suited for the coating of high surface area materials for instance catalyst supports and the coating of high cost precursors where achieving a 100 materials utilization offers significant advantages in terms of the cost of the process.

The methodology of the invention therefore eliminates the stringent tight tolerances required in many existing spatial ALD approaches to avoid the cross talk between different precursors in the ALD process. Instead the method herein relies on the self extinguishing nature of the pulse to eliminate the cross talk.

In another aspect of the methodology ALD can be used under continuous deposition of particles. The fact that the effective reaction or sticking probability becomes much larger in the presence of particles is extremely convenient for the instant invention since the speed of the continuous process relative to the size of the chamber is determined by the sticking probability.

However the fact that the instant method does not require tight tolerances at the points where the web or belt crosses through the reaction embodiment means that the coating of the particles as a form of the substrate in the ALD process is enabled in the presence of mechanical agitation. This agitation greatly impacts the speed of the process by reducing the time required to achieve saturation and ensures that the particles are coated homogenously. Examples of methods for increasing the mixing of the particles would include including a device see for vibration and or periodic oscillations in the web to fluidize the particles in the gas phase inside the chamber or they could be applied to the external operation of the moving substrate like vibrations intrinsic from the operation of the belt . The mechanical agitation allows for much improved mixing of the particles on the conveyor belt and the ALD process is characterized by an effective sticking probability can be determined from the size packing density and total volume of the particles beforehand and these can be used to determine the throughput of the process and tune it to the particle loading.

The present invention has been described herein with reference to the preferred embodiments and accompanying drawings. These embodiments and drawings do not serve to limit the invention but are set forth for illustrative purposes. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims that follow. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications additions and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as disclosed in the accompanying claims.

