---

title: Restraint system pretensioners
abstract: Various embodiments of restraint system pretensioning devices for use in land, air, and sea vehicles are described herein. In one embodiment, a seat unit for use in a military land vehicle or helicopter includes a stroking device that enables the seat to move downwardly in response to sudden movement. The seat unit also includes a seat belt or harness that extends around the occupant in the seat. Sudden movement of the seat in response to an explosion or hard landing causes a pretensioning assembly to automatically pretension the seat harness.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09463771&OS=09463771&RS=09463771
owner: AmSafe, Inc.
number: 09463771
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141231
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 922 700 filed Dec. 31 2013 and entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM PRETENSIONERS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The following disclosure is directed generally to the field of personal restraints for use in vehicles and more particularly to the field of restraint system pretensioners for use in military land vehicles air vehicles and other vehicles.

Military land vehicles generally have a three four or five point seat shoulder belt or harness in one or more of the vehicle seats. Civilian vehicles generally have a three point shoulder belt lap belt harness. To minimize or reduce injury during a collision or rollover both military and civilian vehicles have used seat harness pretensioners. In a typical pretensioner sensors on the vehicle detect the acceleration and or deceleration forces of a collision or rollover causing the pretensioners to actuate. The pretensioners then tighten up the seat harness around the seated passenger or driver milliseconds before the actual full impact or rollover. The tightened harness holds the passenger securely into the seat reducing impact and rebound injuries. These existing pretensioners can be relatively complicated designs because they rely on pyrotechnic devices or electric motors operating a belt retractor each controlled by an electronic trigger.

Many military land vehicles are designed to resist the destructive forces of mines and improvised explosive devices IEDs . These explosive devices create unique risks for military land vehicles. Detonation of a large explosive device can generate forces on the vehicle exceeding 100 g causing the vehicle to accelerate violently upwardly. To reduce the forces on the vehicle crew during a detonation some military vehicles such as the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle JLTV Bradley Fighting Vehicle and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle MRAP have blast attenuating seats. Blast attenuating seats are often supported on shock absorbing materials or are mounted on a shock absorbing structure such as a stroking device that allows the seat to move downwardly during a blast.

Conventional harness pretensioning techniques are generally impractical with these types of blast attenuating seats because the seats move relative to the vehicle body during the blast and the acceleration is largely vertical rather than horizontal. In addition conventional harness pretensioning systems typically use pyrotechnic devices electric retractor motors or electronic sensors which can be complicated and costly.

In addition to land vehicles passengers in helicopters are subjected to similar types of extreme forces during crashes or hard landings. Some helicopters also have seats mounted on a stroking device. The challenges presented in harness pretensioning with blast attenuation seats are also present in helicopter seats mounted on stroking devices.

The present disclosure describes various embodiments of restraint system pretensioners for use with personal restraint systems in land air and sea vehicles. In one embodiment for example a seat unit for use in a land vehicle or helicopter includes a stroking device that enables the seat to move relative to the vehicle in response to an explosion or hard landing. The seat unit also includes a tensioning web or belt that is integral with a harness that extends around the seat occupant. Movement of the seat relative to the vehicle in response to sudden movement of the vehicle caused by an explosion or hard landing causes the tensioning belt to automatically pretension the seat harness. The various embodiments described herein can include devices components or features that are at least generally similar to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 469 401 entitled SEAT HARNESS PRETENSIONER filed May 17 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 8 649 400 entitled SEAT HARNESS PRETENSIONER filed Feb. 23 2010 and U.S. Patent Application No. 61 154 731 entitled SEAT HARNESS PRETENSIONER filed Feb. 23 2009 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Certain details are set forth in the following description and in to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Other details describing well known structures and systems often associated with vehicle seats seat stroking devices web retractors seat harnesses and other personal restraint devices. have not been set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Many of the details dimensions angles and other features shown in the Figures are merely illustrative of particular embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments can add other details dimensions angles and features without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that further embodiments of the invention can be practiced without several of the details described below. In the Figures identical reference numbers identify identical or at least generally similar elements.

As discussed above stroking devices generally allow a seat to move downwardly during an impact. In some embodiments however stroking devices such as the stroking mechanism can be configured to permit the seat to be movable in other directions such as fore and aft side to side or any combination thereof. The stroking mechanism accordingly may be attached to the back the bottom or even the sides of the seat . In addition some blast resistant seats configured in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure can be suspended within the vehicle . The pretensioners shown in the drawings and described herein may be used with virtually any such type of blast resistant seat.

The pretensioner assembly can include a loading mechanism and locking retractors identified individually as a first locking retractor and a second locking retractor all of which can be mounted to the seat . Although referred to herein as the locking retractors as further described below the locking retractors can provide for pretensioning and or locking. The assembly can also include a restraint harness having shoulder straps . The restraint harness can be mounted to the seat and operably coupled to the retractors . The harness extends upward from the retractors and the shoulder straps pass over a top of the seat . In several embodiments the shoulder straps can be integrated with other portions of the harness . For example in some embodiments the shoulder straps can be coupled to a lap belt portion of the harness .

The assembly can also include pretensioning cable assemblies and locking cable assemblies that can operably couple the loading mechanism to the retractors . The pretensioning cable assemblies and the locking cable assemblies can be constructed in a variety of suitable manners to transmit motion from the loading mechanism to the retractors . In the illustrated embodiment for example the pretensioning cable assemblies and the locking cable assemblies are Bowden cable assemblies that each include an outer cable guide or housing and an internal cable. The loading mechanism includes a pivotable arm having a first end portion and a second end portion . The arm rotates about a pivot having an axis B that is generally parallel with a base of the seat and perpendicular to the stroking motion of the seat . The first end portion is positioned to contact a fixed portion of the vehicle and the second end portion is coupled to a pulley that is in operable engagement with the pretensioning cable assemblies . The fixed portion does not move relative to the vehicle when the seat moves up and down via the stroking mechanism .

As described in greater detail below when the seat moves downward relative to the vehicle the fixed portion urges the first end portion to pivot upwardly and the second end portion moves downwardly with the pulley . The downward motion of the pulley pulls on the pretensioning cable assemblies causing retraction of the shoulder straps into the retractors . The downward motion of the second end portion transmits a pushing force on the locking cable assemblies locking the retractors and preventing outward extension of the shoulder straps .

The pretensioning portion can include a hub that can be rotatably positioned on the shaft . A plurality of ratchets having pins are positioned at least partially within the hub and can releasably engage with teeth of a gear on the shaft as described in more detail below. The pretensioning cable assemblies can include an internal pretensioning cable a portion of which wraps around the hub . The shaft extends through a locking plate having a tab . A portion of the internal cable can extend downward through a cable opening in the tab and into the external guide of the pretensioning cable assembly . In response to downward motion of the pulley a portion of the internal cable is pulled downward through the cable opening unwinding at least a portion of the internal cable from the hub and thereby rotating the hub and the associated ratchets about the axis E in the direction of arrow G. The rotation of the ratchets around the shaft in the direction of arrow G causes the ratchets to engage with the shaft resulting in corresponding rotation of the shaft in the direction of arrow G to retract the shoulder straps as described in more detail below. A cover can be positioned to at least partially enclose several of the components of the pretensioning portion .

In some embodiments configured in accordance with the present technology the pretensioner assembly can be reset to allow for pretensioning in a second event that follows a first or initial pretensioning event. For example after a first event that pretensions the restraint harness and when the retractor is no longer locked via the locking cable assemblies the shoulder straps can be paid out via rotation of the shaft in the direction of arrow F. In particular when the ratchet teeth are engaged with the gear teeth as shown in rotation of the shaft in the direction of arrow F can push the gear teeth against the ratchet teeth . The exertion of the gear teeth includes a component of force that pushes the ratchets outwardly pushing the pins against the sidewalls of the opening . While the pins are in between the recesses the pins are maintained in the track by the sidewalls of the opening . When the pins advance to a position adjacent to the recesses the pins move outwardly and are caught by the catch portions . The catch portions engage the pins as shown in rotating the ratchets within the ratchet pockets to disengage the teeth from the gear . These and or other steps may be performed to prepare the pretensioner assembly and the seat for a subsequent or second pretensioning event.

Although the components and features of the embodiments illustrated in are shown in various arrangements and positions other configurations of the components and features of the present technology are within the scope of the disclosure. For example although particular embodiments described herein include three ratchets arranged around a shaft alternative embodiments may include more or fewer ratchets. Similarly the shapes and sizes of the ratchets the ratchet pockets and or other components can be altered and still fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Additionally the positioning of components described with respect to particular embodiments herein may be altered in alternative embodiments. For example locking retractors in accordance with the present technology may have gears that are positioned internal to a shaft. Moreover the gears may be integral with a shaft or they may be operably coupled to a shaft. While the pretensioner assemblies described herein include ratchets hubs and various other components pretensioner assemblies in accordance with the present technology can include additional and or fewer components arranged in a variety of suitable configurations.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the invention. Additionally aspects of the invention described in the context of particular embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other embodiments. Furthermore while various advantages associated with certain embodiments of the invention have been described above in the context of those embodiments other embodiments may also exhibit such advantages and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

