---

title: Potent poxvirus inhibitor
abstract: This invention provides compounds of formulas (I), (II), (III), and (IV) as defined in the specification, and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the same, and methods of inhibiting, treating, or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject using the compounds or compositions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09233921&OS=09233921&RS=09233921
owner: THE TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
number: 09233921
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140310
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 61 774 781 filed on Mar. 8 2014 which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Number 1U01AI082211 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to compounds or compositions for and methods of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection.

Smallpox can be considered the most deadly of all human infectious diseases having killed hundreds of millions over the course of history. In 1980 smallpox became the only known human infectious disease to have been completely eradicated through a vaccination campaign conducted by the World Health Organization. However illicit and surreptitious stocks of the virus pose a bioterrorism threat to the current population Longini et al. 2007 11 98 108 the vast majority of whom have never been vaccinated due to its general discontinuance since 1980. In addition the vaccine is contraindicated for the immune compromised segment of the population that has expanded in more recent times with the advent of AIDS and transplant recipients. In the event of a smallpox outbreak the timing required to develop immunity by vaccination might not be sufficient for a large portion of the population. Therefore effective therapeutics are needed to safeguard the largely immunologically na ve human population by providing immediate protection.

R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group and

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula I in which variables R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula II in which variables R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula BI in which variables R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula IV in which variables R R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject the method comprising administering to said subject a compound of formula II 

R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group and

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject the method comprising administering to said subject a compound of formula III 

in which variables R R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a composition thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject the method comprising administering to said subject a compound of formula IV 

in which variables R R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a composition thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group and

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo C Chaloalkyl OR NRR NRCOR and SOR.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo C Chaloalkyl OR and NRR.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo CF OH OCH and NH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo CF OH OCH and NH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo CF and OCH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H CH halo and OCH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H CH and chloro.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl and 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R each independently are H C Calkyl or halo. In other embodiments R R R R R R R R and R each independently are H C Calkyl or chloro.

In some embodiments R R R and Reach independently are H or CH. In other embodiments one of R R R and Ris CH. In certain embodiments Ris CH. In other embodiments two of R R R and Rare CH. In certain embodiments Rand Rare CH. In other embodiments R R R and Rall are CH.

In some embodiments R R R and Reach independently are H or OR. In other embodiments one of R R R and Ris OCH. In certain embodiments Ris OCH. In other embodiments two of R R R and Rare OCH. In certain embodiments Rand Rare

In some embodiments R R R and Reach independently are H or halo. In other embodiments one of R R R and Ris halo for example fluoro chloro or bromo. In certain embodiments Ris halo. In some embodiments Ris chloro. In other embodiments two of R R R and Rare halo for example fluoro. In some embodiments two of R R R and Rare chloro. In certain embodiments Rand Rcan both be halo for example fluoro. In other embodiments Rand Rcan both be chloro.

In some embodiments three of R R R and Rare halo. In certain embodiments three of R R R and Rare chloro. In other embodiments R R R and Rall are halo. In certain embodiments R R R and Rall are chloro.

In some embodiments R R R R and Reach independently are H or halo. In other embodiments R R R R and R each independently are H or chloro. In some embodiments two of R R R R and R each independently are chloro. In some embodiments three of R R R R and R are halo. In certain embodiments three of R R R R and R are chloro. In other embodiments four of R R R R and R are halo. In certain embodiments four of R R R R and R are chloro. In some embodiments R R R R and R all are halo. In certain embodiments R R R R and R all are chloro.

In some embodiments R R and R are H and R and R are halo. In certain embodiments R R and R are H and R and R are chloro.

In some embodiments R R R and R are H and R is halo. In certain embodiments R R R and R are H and R are chloro.

In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanamide 2 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl acetamide or 4 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl butanamide.

In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanamide. In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl acetamide. In other embodiments the compound is 4 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl butanamide

In some embodiments the compound is 2 6 methyl 3 phenylthio 1H indol 2 yl acetamide 3 6 methyl 3 phenylthio 1H indol 2 yl propanamide or 4 6 methyl 3 phenylthio 1H indol 2 yl butanamide.

In some embodiments the compound is 2 3 4 chlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl acetamide 3 3 4 chlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanamide or 4 3 4 chlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl butanamide

R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group and

R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Ris C Calkyl cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group 

In some embodiments Ris C Calkyl for example methyl. In other embodiments Ris C O OR for example C O OCH or C O OCHCH.

In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 3 5 Dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl N hexylpropanamide.

R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Ris C Calkyl cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group 

In some embodiments Ris C Calkyl for example methyl. In other embodiments Ris C O OR for example C O OCH or C O OCHCH.

At various places in the present specification substituents of compounds of the invention are disclosed in groups or in ranges. It is specifically intended that the invention include each and every individual subcombination of the members of such groups and ranges. For example the term C Calkyl is specifically intended to individually disclose methyl ethyl Calkyl Calkyl Calkyl and Calkyl.

In some embodiments the term alkyl is meant to refer to a saturated hydrocarbon group which is straight chained or branched. Example alkyl groups include methyl Me ethyl Et propyl e.g. n propyl and isopropyl butyl e.g. n butyl isobutyl t butyl pentyl e.g. n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl and the like.

In some embodiments alkenyl refers to an alkyl group having one or more double carbon carbon bonds. Example alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyl and the like.

In some embodiments alkynyl refers to an alkyl group having one or more triple carbon carbon bonds. Example alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl and the like.

In some embodiments cycloalkyl refers to non aromatic carbocycles including cyclized alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups. Cycloalkyl groups can include mono or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings ring systems including spirocycles. In some embodiments cycloalkyl groups can have from 3 to about 20 carbon atoms 3 to about 14 carbon atoms 3 to about 10 carbon atoms or 3 to 7 carbon atoms. Cycloalkyl groups can further have 0 1 2 or 3 double bonds and or 0 1 or 2 triple bonds. Also included in the definition of cycloalkyl are moieties that have one or more aromatic rings fused i.e. having a bond in common with to the cycloalkyl ring for example benzo derivatives of cyclopentane cyclopentene cyclohexane and the like. A cycloalkyl group having one or more fused aromatic rings are attached through either the aromatic or non aromatic portion. One or more ring forming carbon atoms of a cycloalkyl group can be oxidized for example having an oxo or sulfido substituent. Example cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptatrienyl norbornyl norpinyl norcarnyl adamantyl and the like.

In some embodiments cycloalkylalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl group. Example cycloalkylalkyl groups include cyclopropylalkyl cyclohexylalkyl and the like.

In some embodiments heterocycloalkyl refers to a non aromatic heterocycle where one or more of the ring forming atoms can be a heteroatom such as an O N or S atom. Heterocycloalkyl groups can include mono or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings ring systems as well as spirocycles. Example heterocycloalkyl groups include morpholino thiomorpholino piperazinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl 2 3 dihydrobenzofuryl 1 3 benzodioxole benzo 1 4 dioxane piperidinyl pyrrolidinyl isoxazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl oxazolidinyl thiazolidinyl imidazolidinyl and the like. Also included in the definition of heterocycloalkyl can be moieties that have one or more aromatic rings fused i.e. having a bond in common with to the nonaromatic heterocyclic ring for example phthalimidyl naphthalimidyl and benzo derivatives of heterocycles. A heterocycloalkyl group having one or more fused aromatic rings are attached though either the aromatic or non aromatic portion. Also included in the definition of heterocycloalkyl can be moieties where one or more ring forming atoms can be substituted by 1 or 2 oxo or sulfido groups. In some embodiments the to heterocycloalkyl group has from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms and in further embodiments from about 3 to about 20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group contains 3 to about 20 3 to about 14 3 to about 7 or 5 to 6 ring forming atoms. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group has 1 to about 4 1 to about 3 or 1 to 2 heteroatoms. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group contains 0 to 3 double bonds. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group contains 0 to 2 triple bonds.

In some embodiments heterocycloalkylalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by a heterocycloalkyl group. Example heterocycloalkylalkyl groups include morpholinoalkyl and piperazinylalkyl and the like.

In some embodiments aryl refers to monocyclic or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings aromatic hydrocarbons such as for example phenyl naphthyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and the like. In some embodiments an aryl group has from 6 to about 20 carbon atoms.

In some embodiments arylalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by an aryl group. Example arylalkyl groups include benzyl and phenylethyl.

In some embodiments a heteroaryl group refers to an aromatic heterocycle having at least one heteroatom ring member such as sulfur oxygen or nitrogen. Heteroaryl groups include monocyclic and polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings systems. Any ring forming N atom in a heteroaryl group can also be oxidized to form an N oxo moiety. Examples of heteroaryl groups include without limitation pyridyl N oxopyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl furyl quinolyl isoquinolyl thienyl imidazolyl thiazolyl indolyl pyrryl oxazolyl benzofuryl benzothienyl benzthiazolyl isoxazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl indazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl isothiazolyl benzothienyl purinyl carbazolyl benzimidazolyl indolinyl and the like. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group has from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms and in further embodiments from about 3 to about 20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group contains 3 to about 14 3 to about 7 or 5 to 6 ring forming atoms. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group has 1 to about 4 1 to about 3 or 1 to 2 heteroatoms.

In some embodiments a heteroarylalkyl group refers to an alkyl group substituted by a heteroaryl group. An example of a heteroarylalkyl group is pyridylmethyl.

In some embodiments haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by one or more halogen atoms. Examples of haloalkyl groups include CFCF CHF CCl CHCl CCl and the like.

The present invention also includes pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds described herein. In some embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by converting an existing acid or base moiety to its salt form. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention include the conventional non toxic salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention are synthesized from the parent compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two generally nonaqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of suitable salts can be found in 17ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1985 p. 1418 and 66 2 1977 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments examples of suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid or hydrobromic acid while examples of suitable organic acids can include carboxylic acid sulpho acid or sulphonic acid such as acetic acid tartaric acid lactic acid propionic acid glycolic acid malonic acid maleic acid fumaric acid tannic acid succinic acid alginic acid benzoic acid 2 phenoxybenzoic acid 2 acetoxybenzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid citric acid maleic acid salicylic acid 3 aminosalicylic acid ascorbic acid embonic acid nicotinic acid isonicotinic acid oxalic acid gluconic acid amino acids methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulphonic acid ethane 1 2 disulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid 4 methylbenzenesulphonic acid or naphthalene 2 sulphonic acid. Examples of suitable inorganic bases can include sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide and ammonia while examples of suitable organic bases are amines e.g. tertiary amines such as trimethylamine triethylamine pyridine N N dimethylaniline quinoline isoquinoline picoline picoline picoline quinaldine or pyrimidine.

In some embodiments the phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which can be within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention for example a compound of formula I a compound of formula II a compound of formula III or a compound of formula IV can be linked to a lipid or a derivative or analog thereof. The presence of a lipid or a derivative or analog thereof may promote disruption of biological membranes to facilitate intracellular delivery of the compound of the invention. The lipid includes but is not limited to 1 uncharged lipid components for example cholesterol ceramide diacylglycerol acyl poly ethers or alkylpoly ethers 2 neutral phospholipids for example diacylphosphatidylcholines sphingomyelins and diacylphosphatidylethanolamines 3 anionic lipids for example diacylphosphatidylserine diacylphosphatidylglycerol diacylphosphatidate cardiolipin diacylphosphatidylinositol diacylglycerolhemisuccinate diaclyglycerolhemigluratate cholesterylhemisuccinate cholesterylhemiglutarate and the like 4 polymer conjugated lipids for example N methoxy poly ethylene glycol diacylphosphatidylethanolamine poly ethylene glycol diacylglycerol poly ethylene glycol ceramide and 5 cationic lipids for example 1 2 diacyl 3 trimethylammonium propane DOTAP dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide DDAB and 1 2 diacyl sn glycero 3 ethylphosphocholine.

It is an important aspect that the compounds of the present invention can be used to inhibit treat or abrogate a poxvirus infection in a subject.

The present invention provides a method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject the method comprising administering to said subject a compound of formula II 

R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group and

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo C Chaloalkyl OR NRR NRCOR and SOR.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo C Chaloalkyl OR and NRR.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo CF OH OCH and NH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo CF OH OCH and NH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo CF and OCH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H CH halo and OCH.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H CH and chloro.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl and 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl.

In some embodiments R R R R R R R R and R each independently are H C Calkyl or halo. In other embodiments R R R R R R R R and R each independently are H C Calkyl or chloro.

In some embodiments R R R and Reach independently are H or CH. In other embodiments one of R R R and Ris CH. In certain embodiments Ris CH. In other embodiments two of R R R and Rare CH. In certain embodiments Rand Rare CH. In other embodiments R R R and Rall are CH.

In some embodiments R R R and Reach independently are H or OR. In other embodiments one of R R R and Ris OCH. In certain embodiments Ris OCH. In other embodiments two of R R R and Rare OCH. In certain embodiments Rand Rare OCH. In other embodiments R R R and Rall are OCH.

In some embodiments R R R and Reach independently are H or halo. In other embodiments one of R R R and Ris halo for example fluoro chloro or bromo. In certain embodiments Ris halo. In some embodiments Ris chloro. In other embodiments two of R R R and Rare halo for example fluoro. In some embodiments two of R R R and Rare chloro. In certain embodiments Rand Rboth are halo for example fluoro. In other embodiments Rand Rboth are chloro.

In some embodiments three of R R R and Rare halo. In certain embodiments three of R R R and Rare chloro. In other embodiments R R R and Rall are halo. In certain embodiments R R R and Rall are chloro.

In some embodiments R R R R and R each independently are H or halo. In other embodiments R R R R and R each independently are H or chloro. In some embodiments two of R R R R and R each independently are chloro. In some embodiments three of R R R R and R are halo. In certain embodiments three of R R R R and R are chloro. In other embodiments four of R R R R and R are halo. In certain embodiments four of R R R R and R are chloro. In some embodiments R R R R and R all are halo. In certain embodiments R R R R and R all are chloro.

In some embodiments R R and R are H and R and R are halo. In certain embodiments R R and R are H and R and R are chloro.

In some embodiments R R R and R are H and R is halo. In certain embodiments R R R and R are H and R is chloro.

In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanamide 2 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl acetamide or 4 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl butanamide.

In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanamide. In some embodiments the compound is 2 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl acetamide. In other embodiments the compound is 4 3 3 5 dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl butanamide

In some embodiments the compound is 2 6 methyl 3 phenylthio 1H indol 2 yl acetamide 3 6 methyl 3 phenylthio 1H indol 2 yl propanamide or 4 6 methyl 3 phenylthio 1H indol 2 yl butanamide.

In some embodiments the compound is 2 3 4 chlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl acetamide 3 3 4 chlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanamide or 4 3 4 chlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl butanamide.

In some embodiments the poxvirus is a vaccinia virus. In other embodiments the poxvirus is a variola virus. In certain embodiments the poxvirus is a molluscum contagiosum virus.

In some embodiments the step of inhibiting a poxvirus infection in a subject can include the step of inhibiting DNA synthesis of said poxvirus.

In some embodiments the DNA polymerase is an E9 DNA polymerase or a homologue thereof from a different species.

In some embodiments the compound can reduce inhibit or abrogate interaction of said DNA polymerase with a processivity factor. In some embodiments the processivity factor is an A20 or D4R processivity factor or a homologue thereof from a different species.

The method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject comprises the step of administering to said subject an effective amount compound of the present invention. The term an effective amount refers to the amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal response that is being sought in a tissue system animal individual or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject the method comprising administering to said subject a compound of formula III 

in which variables R R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a composition thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject the method comprising administering to said to subject a compound of formula IV 

R R R R R R R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl halo cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Ris C Calkyl cyano nitro C Chaloalkyl OR SR NRR NRCOR SOR SOR COR COOR aryl heteroaryl C Ccycloalkyl 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Chaloalkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C Calkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl heterocycloalkylalkyl arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 3 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group 

In some embodiments Ris OH or OC Calkyl. In other embodiments Ris OH. In certain embodiments Ris OCH. In some embodiments Ris OCH.

In some embodiments Ris C Calkyl or OR. In other embodiments Ris CHor OCH. In certain embodiments Ris CH.

In some embodiments the compound is 3 3 3 5 Dichlorophenyl thio 6 methyl 1H indol 2 yl propanoic acid.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can be used for inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject.

In some embodiments the poxvirus is a vaccinia virus. In other embodiments the poxvirus is a variola virus. In certain embodiments the poxvirus is a molluscum contagiosum virus.

In some embodiments the step of inhibiting a poxvirus infection in a subject can include the step of inhibiting DNA synthesis of said poxvirus.

In some embodiments the DNA polymerase is an E9 DNA polymerase or a homologue thereof from a different species.

In some embodiments the compound can reduce inhibit or abrogate interaction of said DNA polymerase with a processivity factor. In some embodiments the processivity factor is an A20 or D4R processivity factor or a homologue thereof from a different species.

In certain embodiments the poxvirus as described herein infects vertebrates. In certain embodiments the poxvirus as described herein infects invertebrates. In certain embodiments the poxvirus of the present causes a variety of diseases of veterinary and medical importance. In certain embodiments the poxvirus as described herein belongs to the chordopoxyirinae subfamily. In another embodiment the poxvirus as described herein is variola virus smallpox virus . In another embodiment the poxvirus is vaccinia virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is molluscum contagiosum virus. In other embodiments the poxvirus is selected from an orthopoxvirus parapoxvirus and yatapoxvirus.

In another embodiment the poxvirus is a cowpox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a monkeypox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a raccoonpox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a camelpox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a skunkpox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a volepox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is an ectromelia virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a taterapox virus.

In another embodiment the poxvirus is a parapoxvirus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is an orf virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a pseudocowpox virus

In another embodiment the poxvirus is an avipoxvirus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a canarypox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a fowlpox virus.

In another embodiment the poxvirus is a capripoxvirus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a goatpox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a lumpy skin disease virus.

In another embodiment the poxvirus is a leporipoxvirus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a myxoma virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a fibroma virus.

In another embodiment the poxvirus is a molluscipoxvirus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a molluscum contagiosum virus.

In another embodiment the poxvirus is a yatapoxvirus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a tanapox virus. In another embodiment the poxvirus is a Yaba monkey tumor virus.

In certain embodiments methods of inhibiting replication of a poxvirus comprise methods of inhibiting the DNA thereof. In certain embodiments inhibiting the DNA replication is achieved by inhibiting activity of a DNA polymerase protein. In certain embodiments inhibiting a DNA polymerase protein activity comprises reducing the processivity of a DNA polymerase.

In another embodiment the DNA polymerase that is inhibited is an E9 protein. In another embodiment the DNA polymerase is a variola DNA polymerase. In another embodiment the DNA polymerase has a sequence set forth in 1 of the following GenBank Accession Numbers DQ437580 DQ437581 DQ437582 DQ437583 92 inclusive DQ441416 48 inclusive.

In certain embodiments DNA polymerase protein processive activity is inhibited in the presence of an accessory protein. In another embodiment interaction of a DNA polymerase with an accessory protein is inhibited or reduced. In another embodiment interaction of a DNA polymerase with a processivity factor is inhibited or reduced. In another embodiment an E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein or processivity factor is a stoichiometric component of the processive form of poxvirus DNA polymerase. In another embodiment the accessory protein is an A20 protein. In another embodiment the accessory protein is a D4R D4 UDG . In another embodiment the accessory protein is a D5 gene product. In another embodiment the accessory protein is an H5 gene product. In another embodiment the accessory protein is a homologue of A20 from another species. In another embodiment the accessory protein is a homologue of D4 from another species. In another embodiment the accessory protein is a homologue of D5 from another species. In another embodiment the accessory protein is a homologue of H5 from another species.

In certain embodiments the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase protein is at least 70 homologous to a vaccinia virus E9 DNA polymerase protein sequence. In another embodiment the homology is at least 75 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 80 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 85 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 88 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 90 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 92 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 95 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 97 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 98 .

In another embodiment the E9 DNA polymerase protein is a variola virus E9 DNA polymerase protein. In another embodiment the E9 DNA polymerase protein is at least 80 homologous to variola virus E9 DNA polymerase protein. In another embodiment the homology is at least 85 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 88 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 90 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 92 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 95 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 97 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 98 .

In certain embodiments the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein is at least 70 homologous to vaccinia virus A20 protein sequence. In another embodiment the homology is at least 75 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 80 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 85 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 88 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 90 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 92 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 95 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 97 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 98 .

In another embodiment the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein is an A20 variola virus processivity accessory protein. In another embodiment the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein is at least 80 homologous to variola virus A20 protein sequence. In another embodiment the homology is at least 85 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 88 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 90 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 92 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 95 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 97 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 98 .

In certain embodiments the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein is at least 70 homologous to vaccinia virus D4R protein sequence. In another embodiment the homology is at least 75 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 80 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 85 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 88 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 90 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 92 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 95 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 97 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 98 .

In another embodiment the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein is a D4R variola virus processivity accessory protein. In another embodiment the poxvirus E9 DNA polymerase processivity accessory protein is at least 80 homologous to a variola virus D4R protein sequence. In another embodiment the homology is at least 85 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 88 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 90 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 92 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 95 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 97 . In another embodiment the homology is at least 98 .

In certain embodiments contacting a poxvirus with a compound as described herein comprises the step of adding the compound to a petri dish comprising cells infected with a poxvirus. In certain embodiments contacting a poxvirus with a compound as described herein comprises adding the compound to a petri dish comprising an organ culture infected with a poxvirus. In certain embodiments contacting a poxvirus with a compound as described herein comprises administering the compound to an animal and or subject infected with a poxvirus.

In certain embodiments a compound as described herein is solubilized in a buffer compatible with the media comprising cells or a tissue culture. In another embodiment a compound as described herein is solubilized in the media comprising cells or a tissue culture. In certain embodiments a compound as described herein is suspended or otherwise emulsified by methods known to one skilled in the art.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods of inhibiting a poxvirus infection in an animal and or subject comprising administering to an animal and or subject a compound of the present invention. In certain embodiments the term inhibiting comprises restraining holding back repressing or preventing.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of about 30 nM. In some embodiments the ICare about 100 nM. In other embodiments the ICare about 200 nM.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of about 10 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 5 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 1 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 750 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 500 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 250 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 200 nM or less. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 175 nM or less. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof 150 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 125 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 100 nM or less. In certain embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 75 nM or less. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 50 nM or less. In certain embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 30 nM or less. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 20 nM or less.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of about 40 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of about 50 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of about 200 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of about 250 nM.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention utilized in methods as described herein can have an ICfor a poxvirus of from about 100 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 75 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an antiviral ICof about 50 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 25 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 10 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 7 500 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 5 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 2 500 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 1 000 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 750 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 500 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 250 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 225 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 200 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 150 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 125 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 100 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 75 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 50 nM or less. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof about 40 nM or less.

In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICfor a poxvirus of from about 20 nM to about 1 000 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 750 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 500 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have ICof from about 20 nM to about 250 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 225 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 200 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 150 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 125 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 100 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 75 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 20 nM to about 50 nM.

In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICfor a poxvirus of from about 30 nM to about 1 000 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 750 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 500 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 250 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 225 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 200 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 150 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 125 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 100 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 75 nM. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have an ICof from about 30 nM to about 50 nM.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 120. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 150. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 370. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 570.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 10 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 50 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 100 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 150 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 200 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 250 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 300 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 350 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 400 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 450 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 500 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 600 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 700 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 800 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of about 900 or more.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 50 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 100 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 150 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 200 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 250 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 300 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 350 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 400 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 450 to about 600. In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a selectivity index SI of from about 500 to about 600.

In some embodiments the compound of the present invention can have a binding efficiency index BEI of about 15. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 17. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 18. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 19. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 20.

In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 10 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 12 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 14 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 15 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 16 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 17 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 18 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can to have a binding efficiency index of about 19 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 20 or more. In other embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 21 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 22 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 23 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 24 or more. In some embodiments the compound of the invention can have a binding efficiency index of about 25 or more.

The present invention provides methods of inhibiting treating or abrogating a poxvirus infection in a subject inhibiting replication of a poxvirus inhibiting activity of a poxvirus DNA polymerase and decreasing processivity of a poxvirus DNA polymerase comprising contacting a poxvirus with a compound of the present invention.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods of treating a poxvirus infection in an animal and or subject comprising administering to an animal and or subject a compound of the present invention.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods of abrogating a poxvirus infection in an animal and or subject comprising administering to an animal and or subject a compound of the present invention. In certain embodiments the term abrogating comprises abolishing or terminating.

The present invention in some embodiments provides a composition that includes a compound of formula I in which variables R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula II in which variables R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula BI in which variables R R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of formula IV in which variables R R R R R R R R R R R and n are as defined anywhere herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In some embodiments the compounds of this invention are formulated into a pharmaceutical dosage form. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical dosage form further comprises pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients emollients stabilizers etc. as are known in the pharmaceutical industry. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical dosage will include other active agents such immune system modifiers. In another embodiment other compounds for stabilizing preserving the formulation and the like but are not involved directly in the therapeutic effect of the indicated active ingredient are included.

In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions containing the compounds as described herein are administered to a subject by any method known to a person skilled in the art such as parenterally paracancerally transmucosally transdermally intramuscularly intravenously intradermally subcutaneously intraperitonealy intraventricularly intracranially intravaginally or intratumorally.

Various embodiments of dosage ranges are contemplated by this invention. In one embodiment the dosage of the compounds as described herein is in the range of 0.1 100 mg day. In another embodiment the dosage is in the range of 0.1 50 mg day. In another embodiment the dosage is in the range of 0.1 20 mg day. In another embodiment the dosage is in the range of 0.1 10 mg day. In another embodiment the dosage is in the range of 0.1 5 mg day. In another embodiment the dosage is in the range of 0.5 5 mg day.

If the preferred mode is administered orally in another embodiment a unit dosage form comprises tablets capsules lozenges chewable tablets suspensions emulsions and the like. In certain embodiments such unit dosage forms comprise a safe and effective amount of the desired compound or compounds each of which is in another embodiment from about 0.5 or 10 mg to about 300 mg 70 kg or in another embodiment about 0.5 or 10 mg to about 210 mg 70 kg. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier suitable for the preparation of unit dosage forms for peroral administration is well known in the art. In certain embodiments tablets typically comprise conventional pharmaceutically compatible adjuvants as inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate mannitol lactose and cellulose binders such as starch gelatin and sucrose disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and croscarmellose lubricants such as magnesium stearate stearic acid and talc. In certain embodiments glidants such as silicon dioxide are used to improve flow characteristics of the powder mixture. In certain embodiments coloring agents such as the FD C dyes are added for appearance. In certain embodiments sweeteners and flavoring agents such as aspartame saccharin menthol peppermint and fruit flavors are useful adjuvants for chewable tablets. In certain embodiments capsules typically comprise one or more solid diluents disclosed above. In certain embodiments the selection of carrier components depends on secondary considerations like taste cost and shelf stability which are not critical for the purposes of this invention and are readily made by a person skilled in the art.

In certain embodiments peroral compositions comprise liquid solutions emulsions suspensions and the like. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers suitable for preparation of such compositions are well known in the art. In certain embodiments liquid oral compositions comprise in certain embodiments from about 0.012 to about 0.933 of the desired compound or compounds or in another embodiment from about 0.033 to about 0.7 .

In another embodiment the dosage is 10 20 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 20 30 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 20 40 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 30 60 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 40 80 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 50 100 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 50 150 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 100 200 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 200 300 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 300 400 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 400 600 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 500 800 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 800 1000 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 1000 1500 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 1500 2000 g tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 3 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 5 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 10 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 20 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 30 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 50 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 80 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 2 100 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 3 10 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 3 20 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 3 30 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 3 50 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 3 80 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 3 100 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 5 10 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 5 20 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 5 30 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 5 50 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 5 80 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 5 100 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 10 20 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 10 30 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 10 50 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 10 80 mg tablet. In another embodiment the dosage is 10 100 mg tablet.

In some embodiments compositions for use in the methods of this invention comprise solutions or emulsions which in another embodiment are aqueous solutions or emulsions comprising a safe and effective amount of a compound as described herein and in yet another embodiment other compounds. In one embodiment such compositions comprise from about 0.01 to about 10.0 w v of a subject compound more preferably from about 0.1 to about 5.0 which in another embodiment is used for the systemic delivery of compounds by a route known to one skilled in the art.

In certain embodiments the compositions comprise dry powders. In certain embodiments compositions are formulated for atomization and or inhalation administration. In certain embodiments such compositions are contained in a container with attached atomizing means.

Further in another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered by intravenous intra arterial or intramuscular injection of a liquid preparation. In certain embodiments suitable liquid formulations include solutions suspensions dispersions emulsions oils and the like. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered intravenously and are thus formulated in a form suitable for intravenous administration. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered intra arterially and are thus formulated in a form suitable for intra arterial administration. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered intramuscularly and are thus formulated in a form suitable for intramuscular administration.

In another embodiment the active compound is delivered in a vesicle in particular a liposome see Langer 249 1527 1533 1990 Treat et al. in Liposomes in the Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer Lopez Berestein and Fidler eds. Liss New York pp. 353 365 1989 Lopez Berestein ibid. pp. 317 327 .

In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition delivered in a controlled release system is formulated for intravenous infusion implantable osmotic pump transdermal patch liposomes or other modes of administration. In another embodiment a pump may be used see Langer supra Sefton CRC Crit. Ref. 14 201 1987 Buchwald et al. Surgery 88 507 1980 Saudek et al. 321 574 1989 . In another embodiment polymeric materials are used. In yet one embodiment a controlled release system are placed in proximity to the therapeutic target i.e. the brain thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in supra vol. 2 pp. 115 138 1984 . Other controlled release systems are discussed in the review by Langer 249 1527 1533 1990 .

In certain embodiments the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions which contain active components is well understood in the art for example by mixing granulating or tablet forming processes. In certain embodiments the active therapeutic ingredients are mixed with excipients which are pharmaceutically acceptable and compatible with the active ingredient. In certain embodiments for oral administration the compounds as described herein or their physiologically tolerated derivatives such as salts esters N oxides and the like and additional therapeutic agent or agents are mixed with additives customary for this purpose such as vehicles stabilizers or inert diluents and converted by customary methods into suitable forms for administration such as tablets coated tablets hard or soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions.

In certain embodiments an active component as described herein is formulated into the composition as neutralized pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms. In certain embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts formed with the free amino groups of the polypeptide or antibody molecule which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric mandelic and the like. In certain embodiments salts formed from the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine and the like.

In certain embodiments for use in medicine the salts of the compounds as described herein will be pharmaceutically acceptable salts. In certain embodiments other salts may however be useful in the preparation of the compounds used in the methods described herein or of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. In certain embodiments suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this invention include acid addition salts which may for example be formed by mixing a solution of the compound according to the invention with a solution of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid such as hydrochloric acid sulphuric acid methanesulphonic acid fumaric acid maleic acid succinic acid acetic acid benzoic acid oxalic acid citric acid tartaric acid carbonic acid or phosphoric acid.

In certain embodiments the compositions also comprise preservatives such as benzalkonium chloride and thimerosal and the like chelating agents such as edetate sodium and others buffers such as phosphate citrate and acetate tonicity agents such as sodium chloride potassium chloride glycerin mannitol and others antioxidants such as ascorbic acid acetylcystine sodium metabisulfote and others aromatic agents viscosity adjustors such as polymers including cellulose and derivatives thereof and polyvinyl alcohol and acids and bases to adjust the pH of these aqueous compositions as needed. In certain embodiments the compositions may also comprise local anesthetics or other actives. In certain embodiments the compositions are used as sprays mists drops and the like.

In certain embodiments substances which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or components thereof are sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and methyl cellulose powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc solid lubricants such as stearic acid and magnesium stearate calcium sulfate vegetable oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and oil of theobroma polyols such as propylene glycol glycerine sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol alginic acid emulsifiers such as the Tween brand emulsifiers wetting agents such sodium lauryl sulfate coloring agents flavoring agents tableting agents stabilizers antioxidants preservatives pyrogen free water isotonic saline and phosphate buffer solutions. In certain embodiments the choice of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to be used in conjunction with the compound is basically determined by the way the compound is to be administered. In certain embodiments wherein the subject compound is to be injected the preferred pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is sterile physiological saline with a blood compatible suspending agent the pH of which has been adjusted to about 7.4.

In certain embodiments the compositions further comprise binders e.g. acacia cornstarch gelatin carbomer ethyl cellulose guar gum hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose povidone disintegrating agents e.g. cornstarch potato starch alginic acid silicon dioxide croscarmellose sodium crospovidone guar gum sodium starch glycolate buffers e.g. Tris HCl acetate phosphate of various pH and ionic strength additives such as albumin or gelatin to prevent absorption to surfaces detergents e.g. Tween 20 Tween 80 Pluronic F68 bile acid salts protease inhibitors surfactants e.g. sodium lauryl sulfate permeation enhancers solubilizing agents e.g. glycerol polyethylene glycerol anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite butylated hydroxyanisole stabilizers e.g. hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose viscosity increasing agents e.g. carbomer colloidal silicon dioxide ethyl cellulose guar gum sweeteners e.g. aspartame citric acid preservatives e.g. Thimerosal benzyl alcohol parabens lubricants e.g. stearic acid magnesium stearate polyethylene glycol sodium lauryl sulfate flow aids e.g. colloidal silicon dioxide plasticizers e.g. diethyl phthalate triethyl citrate emulsifiers e.g. carbomer hydroxypropyl cellulose sodium lauryl sulfate polymer coatings e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines coating and film forming agents e.g. ethyl cellulose acrylates polymethacrylates and or adjuvants.

In certain embodiments typical components of carriers for syrups elixirs emulsions and suspensions include ethanol glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol liquid sucrose sorbitol and water. For a suspension typical suspending agents include methyl cellulose sodium carboxymethyl cellulose cellulose e.g. AVICEL RC 591 tragacanth and sodium alginate typical wetting agents include lecithin and polyethylene oxide sorbitan e.g. polysorbate 80 . In certain embodiments typical preservatives include methyl paraben and sodium benzoate. In certain embodiments peroral liquid compositions also contain one or more components such as sweeteners flavoring agents and colorants disclosed above.

In certain embodiments dry powder compositions may comprise propellants such as chlorofluorocarbons 12 11 and 12 114 or in another embodiment other fluorocarbons nontoxic volatiles solvents such as water glycerol and ethanol these include co solvents as needed to solvate or suspend the active stabilizers such as ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite preservatives such as cetylpyridinium chloride and benzalkonium chloride tonicity adjustors such as sodium chloride buffers and flavoring agents such as sodium saccharin.

In certain embodiments the compositions also include incorporation of the active material into or onto particulate preparations of polymeric compounds such as polylactic acid polyglycolic acid hydrogels etc or onto liposomes microemulsions micelles unilamellar or multilamellar vesicles erythrocyte ghosts or spheroplasts. Such compositions will influence the physical state solubility stability rate of in vivo release and rate of in vivo clearance.

In certain embodiments also comprehended by the invention are particulate compositions coated with polymers e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines and the compound coupled to antibodies directed against tissue specific receptors ligands or antigens or coupled to ligands of tissue specific receptors.

In certain embodiments compounds modified by the covalent attachment of water soluble polymers such as polyethylene glycol copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol carboxymethyl cellulose dextran polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone or polyproline. The modified compounds are known to exhibit substantially longer half lives in blood following intravenous injection than do the corresponding unmodified compounds Abuchowski et al. 1981 Newmark et al. 1982 and Katre et al. 1987 . In certain embodiments such modifications may also increase the compounds solubility in aqueous solution eliminate aggregation enhance the physical and chemical stability of the compound and greatly reduce the immunogenicity and reactivity of the compound. In certain embodiments the desired in vivo biological activity may be achieved by the administration of such polymer compound abducts less frequently or in lower doses than with the unmodified compound.

In certain embodiments the compounds of the invention are administered as the sole active pharmaceutical agent they can also be used in combination with one or more other compound as described herein and or in combination with other agents used in the treatment and or prevention of diseases disorders and or conditions associated with a poxvirus infection as will be understood by one skilled in the art. In another embodiment the compounds as described herein are administered sequentially with one or more such agents to provide sustained therapeutic and prophylactic effects. In another embodiment the compounds may be administered via different routes at different times or a combination thereof. It is to be understood that any means of administering combined therapies which include the compounds of this invention are to be considered as part of this invention.

In another embodiment the additional active agents are generally employed in therapeutic amounts as indicated in the PHYSICIANS DESK REFERENCE PDR 53rd Edition 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference or such therapeutically useful amounts as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention and the other therapeutically active agents are administered at the recommended maximum clinical dosage or at lower doses. In certain embodiments dosage levels of the active compounds in the compositions of the invention may be varied to obtain a desired therapeutic response depending on the route of administration severity of the disease and the response of the patient. In another embodiment the combination is administered as separate compositions or in other embodiments as a single dosage form containing both agents. In certain embodiments when administered as a combination the therapeutic agents is formulated in another embodiment as separate compositions that are given at the same time or different times or in other embodiments the therapeutic agents are given as a single composition.

In certain embodiments the compositions and methods described herein are employed in the treatment of domesticated mammals which are maintained as human companions e.g. dogs cats horses which have significant commercial value e.g. dairy cows. beef cattle sporting animals which have significant scientific value e.g. captive or free specimens of endangered species or which otherwise have value.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention.

The compounds of the present invention that are used to inhibit treat or abrogate a poxvirus infection in a subject are prepared as shown in the following examples.

All compound syntheses were carried out at Organix Inc. Woburn Mass. . All solvents and reagents were used as obtained. Air and moisture sensitive reactions were carried out in oven dried glassware sealed with rubber septa under a positive pressure of dry N. Reactions were stirred using Teflon coated magnetic stir bars. Elevated temperatures were maintained using Thermostat controlled silicone oil baths. Organic solutions were concentrated using a rotary evaporator with a diaphragm vacuum pump. Melting points were obtained on a MeI Temp apparatus and are uncorrected. Proton NMR spectra were recorded on a Jeol Eclipse 300 and expressed in ppm with TMS as an internal standard. HPLC and MS data were obtained on an Agilent 1100 Series LC MS system. Thin layer chromatography TLC was carried out on Baker Si 250 F plates. Flash chromatography was carried out on Baker Silica Gel 40 M or ISCO columns packed with 230 400 mesh and pore size 60 silica gel. Purity in two solvent systems HO CHCN or HO MeOH was determined using an Agilent 1100 HPLC instrument and all final compounds were 95 pure. Elemental analyses were carried out by Atlantic Microlab Norcross Ga. .

A solution of 2 mercaptopyridine 41 20.0 g 180.0 mmol in 140 mL of conc. HCl and 20 mL of water was cooled to 0 C. Clwas bubbled through this solution for 2 h. A stream of Nwas then used to remove excess Cl. The mixture was poured onto ice water and dichloromethane was added. The reaction mixture was neutralized with solid NaHCOwhile maintaining the temperature at 0 C. by addition of ice. Two phases were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with cold dichloromethane. The organics were dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to provide 27.2 g 85 of product 43 as a colorless oil which was used immediately. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.68 7.70 m 1H 8.05 8.10 m 2H 8.82 8.83 m 3H .

6 Methylindole 42 7.34 g 56.0 mmol was added in portions to a mixture of sodium hydride 3.36 g 84.0 mmol in THF 80 mL at 0 C. After 15 min pyridine 2 sulfonyl chloride 43 10.0 g 56.0 mmol was added and the reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred overnight under N. The reaction mixture was then quenched with ice water and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 40 EtOAc hexanes to provide 8.8 g 57 of product 44 as a brown gum. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.44 s 3H 6.62 dd J 1 4 Hz 1H 7.03 7.06 m 1H 7.41 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.41 7.45 m 1H 7.59 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.79 7.81 m 1H 7.84 7.90 m 1H 8.10 dt J 1 8 Hz 1H 8.58 8.60 m 1H . LC MS CI m z 273.0 M H CHNOS requires 272.06 .

In a sealed tube 44 9.60 g 35.2 mmol copper II acetate monohydrate 14.05 g 70.4 mmol and PdCl CHCN 0.91 g 3.5 mmol were placed under a nitrogen atmosphere. Acetonitrile 60 mL was added followed by methyl acrylate 9.52 mL 105.6 mmol . The mixture was heated at 110 C. for 20 h allowed to reach rt diluted with EtOAc and washed with water and brine. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 20 EtOAc hexanes to provide 3.86 g 30 of product 45 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.46 s 3H 3.81 s 3H 6.39 d J 16 Hz 1H 6.97 s 1H 7.06 7.08 m 1H 7.39 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.40 7.45 m 1H 7.84 7.90 m 1H 7.94 7.96 m 1H 8.06 dt J 1 8 Hz 1H 8.42 d J 16 Hz 1H 8.52 8.54 m 1H . LC MS CI m z 357.1 M H CHNOS requires 356.08 .

A suspension of 45 1.86 g 5.22 mmol and Mg 2.54 g 104.4 mmol in MeOH 40 mL was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was washed with a sat. NaHCOsolution brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 10 EtOAc hexanes to provide 0.69 g 60 of product 46 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.43 s 3H 2.74 t J 7 Hz 2H 3.06 t J 7 Hz 2H 3.71 s 3H 6.17 m 1H 6.90 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.10 s 1H 7.40 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.36 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 218.1 M H CHNOrequires 217.11 .

To a solution of 46 0.69 g 3.17 mmol in THF MeOH HO 1 1 1 9 mL was added LiOH.HO 0.25 g 5.96 mmol . The reaction was stirred at rt for 16 h diluted with water acidified to pH 3 with 1 N HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with water brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to provide 0.58 g 90 of product 47 as an off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.35 s 3H 2.65 t J 8 Hz 2H 2.93 t J 8 Hz 2H 6.05 s 1H 6.75 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.04 s 1H 7.27 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.74 brs 1H 12.19 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 202.0 M H CHNOrequires 203.09 .

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 47 0.58 g 2.85 mmol and 54 1.52 g 4.27 mmol provided 0.50 g 46 of product 24d as a pale yellow solid mp 162 164 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.45 s 3H 2.75 t J 6 Hz 2H 3.18 t J 6 Hz 2H 6.84 s 1H 6.83 s 1H 6.97 7.01 m 2H 7.18 s 1H 7.38 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.90 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 377.9 379.9 M H CHClNOS requires 379.02 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.07CH C 57.27 H 4.17 N 3.63 S 8.30 Cl 18.35. Found C 57.26 H 4.05 N 3.69 S 7.96 Cl 18.04.

To a 0 C. solution of 24d 200 mg 0.52 mmol in CHCl 4 mL was added oxalyl chloride 66 L 0.79 mmol followed by a drop of DMF. The mixture was stirred for 2 h at 0 C. under N. The solvent was removed in vacuo and CHCl 1 mL was added. The solvent was again removed and dried in vacuo to provide the intermediate acid chloride as a brown gum. To a 0 C. solution of this acid chloride in dioxane 1 mL was added aqueous ammonia 2 mL . The reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred for 2 h and then was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 100 EtOAc hexanes to provide 83 mg 43 of product 24a as an off white solid mp 152 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.46 s 3H 2.53 2.57 m 2H 3.15 3.19 m 2H 5.41 brs 2H 6.83 6.84 m 2H 6.99 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.00 7.02 m 1H 7.19 s 1H 7.38 d J 8 Hz 1H 9.61 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 379.0 381.0 M H CHClNOS requires 378.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 57.00 H 4.25 N 7.39 S 8.45 Cl 18.69. Found C 56.77 H 4.46 N 7.22 S 8.65 Cl 18.88.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 24d 0.22 g 0.59 mmol and oxalyl chloride 100 L 1.18 mmol followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with n hexylamine 0.15 mL 1.18 mmol in presence of EtN 0.16 mL 1.18 mmol provided 70 mg 26 of product 24e as a yellow gum. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.86 t J 7 Hz 3H 1.20 1.31 m 6H 1.40 1.51 m 2H 2.45 s 3H 2.43 2.49 m 2H 3.14 3.18 m 2H 3.22 3.29 m 2H 5.45 brs 1H 6.82 6.84 m 2H 6.97 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.98 7.01 m 1H 7.18 brs 1H 7.38 d J 8 Hz 1H 9.91 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 463.1 465.1 M H CHClNOS requires 463.13 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.06CH C 62.43 H 6.20 N 5.98 Cl 15.13. Found C 62.72 H 6.01 N 6.01 Cl 15.17.

A round bottom flask was charged with 42 1.76 g 13.4 mmol norbornene 2.53 g 26.9 mmol KCO 3.71 g 26.9 mmol and PdCl CHCN 0.35 g 1.34 mmol . A solution of water in DMA 0.5 M 10 mL was then added. The reaction mixture was evacuated back filled with argon three times and then added with methyl 4 bromobutyrate 4.7 mL 26.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was placed in a preheated oil bath at 70 C. and the mixture was stirred vigorously for 16 h under N. The reaction was cooled to rt diluted with ether and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo at 60 C. to remove ether and most of DMA. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 40 EtOAc hexanes to provide 0.72 g 23 of product 48 as an off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.98 2.07 m 2H 2.40 t J 7 Hz 2H 2.43 s 3H 2.80 t J 7 Hz 1H 3.66 s 3H 6.18 6.19 m 1H 6.91 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.09 s 1H 7.40 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.90 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 232.1 M H CHNOrequires 231.13 .

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 48 0.71 g 3.07 mmol provided 0.52 g 78 of product 49 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.99 2.08 m 2H 2.40 2.45 m 2H 2.43 s 3H 2.83 t J 7 Hz 2H 6.20 s 1H 6.91 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.09 s 1H 7.41 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.82 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 216.1 M H CHNOrequires 217.11 .

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 49 0.50 g 2.30 mmol and 54 1.23 g 3.45 mmol yielded a crude product that was purified by flash column chromatography by elution with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 100 EtOAc hexanes to provide 0.48 g 53 of product 50 as a brown foam. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.93 2.02 m 2H 2.36 t J 7 Hz 2H 2.45 s 3H 2.87 2.93 m 2H 6.83 6.84 m 2H 6.95 6.99 m 2H 7.18 s 1H 7.37 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.97 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 392.0 393.9 M H CHClNOS requires 394.04 .

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 50 135 mg 0.34 mmol and oxalyl chloride 43 L 0.51 mmol followed by reacting the intermediate acid chloride with aqueous ammonia 2 mL provided 23 mg 17 of product 24c as a pale yellow solid mp 163 164 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.92 2.01 q J 7 Hz 2H 2.25 t J 7 Hz 2H 2.46 s 3H 2.96 t J 7 Hz 2H 5.42 brs 2H 6.84 d J 2 Hz 2H 6.96 7.00 m 2H 7.21 s 1H 7.38 d J 8 Hz 1H 9.34 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 393.0 395.0 M H CHClNOS requires 392.05 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 58.02 H 4.61 N 7.12 S 8.15 Cl 18.03. Found C 58.06 H 4.79 N 6.88 S 7.90 Cl 17.75. The low yield for amide preparation in this case was due to the significant formation of a six membered lactam via cyclization of the intermediate acid chloride.

Following the method used to prepare 48 the use of 42 2.5 g 19.0 mmol and methyl bromoacetate at 40 C. for 16 h provided 0.79 g 20 of product 51 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.36 s 3H 3.64 s 3H 3.81 s 2H 6.19 s 1H 6.79 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.10 s 1H 7.32 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.86 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 204.1 M H CHNOrequires 203.09 .

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 51 0.76 g 3.74 mmol provided 0.63 g 89 of product 52 as a pale brown solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.35 s 3H 3.68 s 2H 6.16 s 1H 6.78 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.09 s 1H 7.31 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.81 brs 1H 12.46 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 188.0 M H CHNOrequires 189.08 .

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 52 0.56 g 2.96 mmol and 54 1.05 g 2.95 mmol at rt for 1d provided 0.75 g 69 of product 53 as a light brown solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.47 s 3H 4.02 s 2H 6.86 d J 2 Hz 2H 7.91 7.03 m 2H 7.22 brs 1H 7.42 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.95 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 363.8 365.8 M H CHClNOS requires 365.0 .

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 53 0.35 g 0.96 mmol and oxalyl chloride 120 L 1.44 mmol followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with ammonia in dioxane provided 0.28 g 80 of product 24b as an off white solid mp 197 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 3.70 s 2H 6.90 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.99 7.01 m 2H 7.08 brs 1H 7.20 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.25 7.28 m 2H 7.54 brs 1H 11.65 brs 1H . LC MS CI m z 365.0 367.0 M H CHClNOS requires 364.0 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 55.90 H 3.86 N 7.67 S 8.78 Cl 19.41. Found C 55.61 H 3.90 N 7.68 S 8.59 Cl 19.67.

6 Methyl 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 0.30 g 1.71 mmol was dissolved in DMF 5 mL and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 0.20 g 5.13 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 15 min Bis 4 chlorophenyl disulfide 26 0.59 g 2.05 mmol to was added to this solution and the reaction was heated at 50 C. for 1d under N. The reaction was allowed to cool to rt quenched with ice water acidified to pH 3 with 1 N HCl and extracted into EtOAc. The organic layers were combined washed with water and brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 10 MeOH CHClto provide 0.28 g 52 of product 1 as an off white solid mp 228 229 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.39 s 3H 6.95 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.03 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.27 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.24 7.29 m 2H 12.20 s 1H 13.30 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 316.0 M H CHClNOS requires 317.03 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 60.47 H 3.81 N 4.41 S 10.09 Cl 11.16. Found C 60.49 H 3.84 N 4.38 S 10.36 Cl 11.05.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 4 methyl 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 27 0.5 g 2.85 mmol and 26 0.86 g 2.99 mmol provided 0.39 g of product 1a 43 as an off white solid mp 223 224 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.56 s 3H 6.85 d J 7 Hz 1H 6.92 6.97 m 2H 7.18 t J 7 Hz 1H 7.24 7.30 m 2H 7.40 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.40 s 1H 13.35 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 316.0 M H CHCl NOS requires 317.03 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHCl NOS C 60.47 H 3.81 N 4.41 S 10.09 Cl 11.16. Found C 60.30 H 3.68 N 4.37 S 10.28 Cl 11.43.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 5 methyl 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 28 1.0 g 5.70 mmol and 26 1.72 g 6.0 mmol provided 0.96 g of product 1b 53 as an off white solid mp 226 227 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.39 s 3H 7.00 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.16 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.21 7.28 m 3H 7.43 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.27 s 1H 13.32 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 316.0 M H CHCl NOS requires 317.03 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHCl NOS C 60.47 H 3.81 N 4.41 S 10.09 Cl 11.16. Found C 60.22 H 3.66 N 4.35 S 10.00 Cl 11.34.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 7 methyl 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 29 0.3 g 1.71 mmol and 26 0.59 g 2.05 mmol provided 0.28 g of product 1c 51 as an off white solid mp 225 229 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.55 s 3H 6.99 7.03 m 3H 7.11 d J 7 Hz 1H 7.23 7.28 m 3H 12.17 s 1H 13.40 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 316.0 M H CHClNOS requires 317.03 . Purity 98 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.2HO C 59.79 H 3.89 N 4.36 S 9.98 Cl 11.03. Found C 59.89 H 3.77 N 4.56 S 9.92 Cl 10.83.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of indole 2 carboxylic acid 30 0.15 g 0.93 mmol and 26 0.32 g 1.11 mmol provided 0.21 g of product 1d 74 as a white solid mp 225 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 7.03 7.13 m 3H 7.24 7.34 m 3H 7.43 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.53 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.36 s 1H 13.40 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 302.0 M H CHClNOS requires 303.02 . Purity 98 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 59.31 H 3.32 N 4.61 S 10.56 Cl 11.67. Found C 59.40 H 3.21 N 4.54 S 10.38 Cl 11.54.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 6 chloro 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 31 0.12 g 0.61 mmol and 26 0.21 g 0.74 mmol provided 0.12 g of product 1e 58 as a brown solid mp 232 233 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 7.06 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.12 7.15 m 1H 7.25 7.29 m 2H 7.42 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.52 s 1H 12.48 s 1H 13.58 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 335.9 M H CHClNOS requires 336.97 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.3HO C 52.43 H 2.82 N 4.08 S 9.33 Cl 20.64. Found C 52.58 H 2.58 N 4.11 S 9.69 Cl 20.34.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 6 bromo 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 32 0.15 g 0.62 mmol and 26 0.21 g 0.74 mmol provided 0.075 g of 7 31 as a brown solid mp 248 249 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 7.01 7.07 m 2H 7.22 7.30 m 3H 7.33 7.35 m 1H 7.67 s 1H 12.48 s 1H 13.58 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 381.9 M H CHBrClNOS requires 380.92 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHBrClNOS C 47.08 H 2.37 N 3.66 S 8.38 Cl 9.26 Br 20.88. Found C 47.02 H 2.26 N 3.75 S 8.41 Cl 9.15 Br 20.72.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 6 fluoro 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 33 0.3 g 1.67 mmol and 26 0.57 g 2.0 mmol provided 0.19 g of product 1g 34 as an impure off white solid that could not be readily purified. It was therefore converted to the corresponding methyl ester 34 as described below. Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 34 145 mg 0.43 mmol provided 109 mg 80 of product 1g as an off white solid mp 230 232 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 6.96 7.09 m 3H 7.20 7.30 m 3H 7.43 dd J 5 9 Hz 1H 12.40 s 1H 13.48 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 320.0 M H CHClFNOS requires 321.0 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClFNOS C 55.99 H 2.82 N 4.35 S 9.97 Cl 11.02 F 5.90. Found C 56.17 H 3.05 N 4.16 S 9.62 Cl 10.73 F 5.58.

To a solution of freshly made sodium methoxide prepared by dissolving Na 0.92 g 40 mmol in methanol 12 mL was added to a solution of methyl 2 azidoacetate 4.5 g 39 mmol and 4 ethyl benzaldehyde 35 1.30 g 9.7 mmol in methanol 10 mL at 10 C. The mixture was stirred for 2 h maintaining the temperature below 5 C. and then was poured onto ice extracted with dichloromethane dried over MgSO and concentrated by passing a stream of nitrogen to provide 1.05 g 46 of product 1 h as a yellow gum. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.20 1.25 m 3H 2.64 2.66 m 2H 3.88 s 3H 6.91 s 1H 7.18 7.21 m 2H 7.71 7.73 m 2H .

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 37 0.52 g 2.56 mmol provided 0.45 g 92 of product 38 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.20 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.66 q J 7 Hz 2H 6.94 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.01 7.03 m 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.54 d J 8 Hz 1H 11.61 s 1H 12.83 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 188.0 M H CHNOrequires 189.08 .

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 38 125 mg 0.66 mmol and 26 227 mg 0.79 mmol provided 126 mg of 1 h 57 as an off white solid mp 210 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.20 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.70 q J 7 Hz 2H 6.96 7.06 m 3H 7.24 7.32 m 4H 12.21 s 1H 13.32 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 330.0 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.2H0.01HCl C 60.81 H 4.33 N 4.17 S 9.55 Cl 10.66. Found C 60.67 H 4.22 N 4.10 S 9.28 Cl 11.01.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 38 0.3 g 1.57 mmol and 26 0.51 g 1.77 mmol provided 0.27 g of 1i 51 as a white foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 3.58 s 3H 6.52 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.01 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.09 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.19 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.25 d J 8 Hz 2H 12.26 s 1H 13.28 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 332.0 M H CHClNOS requires 333.02 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 57.57 H 3.62 N 4.20 S 9.61 Found C 57.54 H 3.53 N 4.17 S 9.88.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 4 7 dimethyl 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 40 150 mg 0.79 mmol and 26 280 mg 0.97 mmol provided 106 mg of 1j 40 as an off white solid mp 228 230 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 2.50 s 3H 2.57 s 3H 6.75 d J 7 Hz 1H 6.80 6.97 m 3H 7.15 d J 8 Hz 2H . LC MS CI m z 330.1 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd CHClNOS.0.2HO C 60.87 H 4.33 N 4.18 S 9.56 Cl 10.57. Found C 60.50 H 4.06 N 4.18 S 9.73 Cl 10.80.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1b 0.51 g 1.60 mmol and oxalyl chloride 0.32 mL 3.65 mmol followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with MeOH 5 mL provided 0.95 g 90 of product 7 as a white solid mp 230 233 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.34 s 3H 3.84 s 3H 7.05 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.16 7.20 m 1H 7.25 7.28 m 3H 7.45 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.41 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 332.1 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.2HO C 60.87 H 4.33 N 4.18 S 9.56 Cl 10.57. Found C 60.89 H 4.08 N 4.14 S 9.81 Cl 10.77.

Compound 7 200 mg 0.6 mmol was added in portions to a mixture of sodium hydride 60 mg 1.2 mmol in DMF 5 mL at 0 C. After 15 min methyl iodide 50 L 0.9 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. The reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred overnight under N. The reaction mixture was then quenched with ice water and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 50 EtOAc hexanes to provide 166 mg 63 of product 4 as an off white solid mp 110 111 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.35 s 3H 3.83 s 3H 4.00 s 3H 7.06 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.23 7.29 m 4H 7.63 d J 9 Hz 1H . LC MS CI m z 346.1 M H CHClNOS requires 345.06 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 62.51 H 4.66 N 4.05 S 9.27 Cl 10.25. Found C 62.79 H 4.64 N 3.98 S 9.05 Cl 10.03.

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 4 166 mg 0.48 mmol provided 158 mg 75 of product 2 as a brown solid mp 205 206 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.35 s 3H 4.04 s 3H 6.99 7.03 m 2H 7.21 7.28 m 4H 7.60 d J 9 Hz 1H 13.58 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 330.0 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 61.53 H 4.25 N 4.22 S 9.66 Cl 10.68. Found C 61.52 H 4.32 N 4.19 S 9.82 Cl 10.63.

Following the method used to prepare 4 the use of 7 0.27 g 0.81 mmol and ethyl iodide 0.1 mL 1.25 mmol provided 0.27 g 51 of product 4 as an off white gum. The compound contains 7 of the corresponding ethyl ester. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.35 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.34 s 3H 3.83 s 3H 4.57 q J 7 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.22 7.30 m 4H 7.64 d J 9 Hz 1H . LC MS CI m z 360.1 M H CHClNOS requires 359.07 . Purity 99 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 63.41 H 5.04 N 3.89 S 8.91 Cl 9.85. Found C 63.48 H 5.14 N 3.85 S 9.02 Cl 9.70.

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 5 106 mg 0.29 mmol provided 96 mg 94 of product 3 as an off white solid mp 229 231 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.35 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.34 s 3H 4.58 q J 7 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.20 7.28 m 4H 7.62 d J 9 Hz 1H 13.58 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 344.0 M H CHClNOS requires 345.06 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.05CHCl C 61.93 H 4.64 N 4.00 S 9.16 Cl 11.14. Found C 61.73 H 4.59 N 3.88 S 9.29 Cl 11.19.

Following the method used to prepare 34 the use of 1 100 mg 0.32 mmol and TMSCHN 2.0 M solution in diethyl ether 0.32 mL 0.64 mmol provided 79 mg of product 6 75 as a white solid mp 147 149 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 3.85 s 3H 6.96 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.25 7.31 m 4H 12.35 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 330.0 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 61.53 H 4.25 N 4.22 S 9.66 Cl 10.68. Found C 61.48 H 4.27 N 4.13 S 9.79 Cl 10.64.

Following the method used to prepare 34 the use of 1c 80 mg 0.25 mmol and TMSCHN 2.0 M solution in diethyl ether 0.29 mL 0.58 mmol provided 80 mg of product 8 95 as a white solid mp 170 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.56 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 7.00 7.06 m 3H 7.14 d J 7 Hz 1H 7.24 7.28 m 3H 12.30 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 332.1 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.3HO C 60.55 H 4.36 N 4.15 S 9.51 Cl 10.51. Found C 60.79 H 4.05 N 4.15 S 9.51 Cl 10.87.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1b 0.23 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with EtOH 5 mL provided 61 mg 76 of product 10 as a white solid mp 158 160 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.24 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.34 s 3H 4.30 q J 7 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.16 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.26 7.29 m 3H 7.46 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.38 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 346.1 M H CHClNOS requires 345.06 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 62.51 H 4.66 N 4.05 S 9.27 Cl 10.25. Found C 62.37 H 4.60 N 3.95 S 9.21 Cl 10.30.

Following the method used to prepare 24a 1b 0.21 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with 2 propanol 2 mL provided 44 mg 58 of product 12 as a white solid mp 172 174 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.18 1.24 m 6H 2.35 s 3H 5.09 5.12 m 1H 7.04 dd J 2 9 Hz 2H 7.19 d J 8 1H 7.25 7.30 m 3H 7.46 dd J 2 9 Hz 1H 12.34 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 360.0 M H CHClNOS requires 359.07 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 63.41 H 5.04 N 3.89 S 8.91 Cl 9.85. Found C 63.59 H 4.97 N 3.90 S 9.04 Cl 9.85.

Following the method used to prepare 24a 1b 0.18 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with phenol 33 mg 0.36 mmol in the presence of EtN 95 L 0.72 mmol provided 35 mg 50 of product 14 as a white foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.37 s 3H 7.12 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.18 7.34 m 7H 7.43 7.52 m 3H 12.67 s 1H . Purity 98 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 67.08 H 4.09 N 3.56 S 8.14 Cl 9.00. Found C 67.15 H 3.92 N 3.59 S 8.07 Cl 8.93.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1b 0.23 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with benzyl alcohol 35 L 0.34 mmol in presence of pyridine 54 L 0.68 mmol provided 35 mg 37 of product 16 as a pale yellow foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.34 s 3H 5.35 s 2H 7.00 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.20 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.26 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.29 7.38 m 6H 7.47 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.44 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 408.1 M H CHClNOS requires 407.6 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 67.72 H 4.45 N 3.43 S 7.86 Cl 8.69. Found C 67.53 H 4.55 N 3.42 S 8.09 Cl 8.45.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1a 0.19 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with MeOH 3 mL provided 52 mg 81 of product 9 as a white solid mp 192 193 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.57 s 3H 3.84 s 3H 6.88 d J 7 Hz 1H 6.95 6.98 m 2H 7.24 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.26 7.29 m 2H 7.41 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.52 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 332.1 M H CHClNOS requires 331.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 61.53 H 4.25 N 4.22 S 9.66 Cl 10.68. Found C 61.25 H 4.24 N 4.14 S 9.56 Cl 10.64.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1a 0.19 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with EtOH 3 mL provided 41 mg 62 of product 11 as a white solid mp 186 188 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.25 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.59 s 3H 4.31 q J 7 Hz 2H 6.88 d J 7 Hz 1H 6.94 6.98 m 2H 7.23 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.25 7.30 m 2H 7.42 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.48 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 346.1 M H CHClNOS requires 345.06 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 62.51 H 4.66 N 4.05 S 9.27 Cl 10.25. Found C 62.53 H 4.59 N 4.08 S 9.27 Cl 10.35.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1a 0.21 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with 2 propanol 2 mL provided 40 mg 53 of product 13 as a white solid mp 190 192 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.22 d J 6 Hz 6H 2.60 s 3H 5.05 5.14 m 1H 6.88 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.98 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.23 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.30 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.45 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 360.1 M H CHClNOS requires 359.07 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.07CHCl C 62.61 H 5.00 N 3.83 S 8.77 Cl 11.05. Found C 62.32 H 5.01 N 3.77 S 9.08 Cl 10.93.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1a 0.24 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with phenol 33 mg 0.36 mmol in presence of pyridine 100 L provided 42 mg 45 of product 15 as a white foam. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.74 s 3H 6.95 7.03 m 3H 7.08 7.16 m 4H 7.23 7.41 m 5H 9.43 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 394.1 M H CHClNOS requires 393.06 . Purity 98 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 67.08 H 4.09 N 3.56 S 8.14 Cl 9.00. Found C 67.09 H 3.98 N 3.64 S 8.34 Cl 9.14.

Following the method used to prepare 24a the use of 1a 0.21 mmol and oxalyl chloride in THF followed by allowing the intermediate acid chloride to react with benzyl alcohol 33 L 0.32 mmol in the presence of pyridine 54 L 0.68 mmol provided 17 mg 20 of product 17 as a pale yellow foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.59 s 3H 5.36 s 2H 6.89 d J 7 Hz 1H 6.95 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.22 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.24 7.27 m 2H 7.31 7.39 m 5H 7.43 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.45 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 408.1 M H CHClNOS requires 407.6 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 67.72 H 4.45 N 3.43 S 7.86 Cl 8.69. Found C 67.48 H 4.43 N 3.42 S 7.85 Cl 8.98.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.4 g 2.30 mmol and diphenyldisulfide 0.55 g 2.52 mmol provided 0.18 g of product 18 27 as an off white solid mp 169 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.39 s 3H 6.92 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.04 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.17 7.29 m 4H 12.14 s 1H 13.27 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 282.0 M H CHNOS requires 283.07 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS C 67.82 H 4.62 N 4.94 S 11.32. Found C 67.93 H 4.64 N 4.97 S 11.49.

Following the method used to prepare 34 the use of 18 50 mg 0.18 mmol and TMSCHN 2.0 M solution in diethyl ether 0.20 mL 0.40 mmol provided 37 mg of product 29 71 as a white solid mp 164 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 3.85 s 3H 6.94 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.04 7.12 m 3H 7.17 7.29 m 4H 12.29 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 298.1 M H CHNOS requires 297.08 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS C 68.66 H 5.08 N 4.71 S 10.78. Found C 68.51 H 5.14 N 4.62 S 10.66.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 150 mg 0.86 mmol and bis 3 chlorophenyl disulfide 55 287 mg 1.0 mmol provided 135 g of product 18a 50 as an off white solid mp 193 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 6.46 6.49 m 1H 6.96 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.04 7.10 m 2H 7.28 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.32 s 1H 7.04 7.10 m 1H 12.30 s 1H 13.31 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 316.0 M H CHClNOS requires 317.03 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 60.47 H 3.81 N 4.41 S 10.09 Cl 11.16. Found C 60.83 H 3.86 N 4.37 S 9.69 Cl 10.78.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.2 g 1.15 mmol and bis 3 fluorophenyl disulfide 57 0.35 g 1.38 mmol provided 0.14 g of product 18b 40 as an off white solid mp 160 162 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 6.74 6.77 m 1H 6.82 6.85 m 1H 6.86 6.96 m 2H 7.20 7.31 m 3H 12.24 s 1H 13.33 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 300.0 M H CHFNOS requires 301.06 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHFNOS C 63.77 H 4.01 N 4.65 S 10.64. Found C 63.81 H 3.91 N 4.69 S 10.38.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.15 g 0.86 mmol and bis 3 bromophenyl disulfide 57 0.38 g 1.02 mmol provided 0.1 g of product 18c 32 as an off white solid mp 224 225 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.39 s 3H 6.93 6.96 m 3H 7.29 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.39 d J 9 Hz 2H 12.21 s 1H 13.30 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 359.9 M H CHBrNOS requires 360.98 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHBrNOS C 53.05 H 3.34 N 3.87. Found C 53.10 H 3.21 N 3.74.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.3 g 1.71 mmol and bis p tolyl disulfide 58 0.5 g 2.03 mmol provided 0.12 g of 18d 24 as an off white solid mp 215 220 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.20 s 3H 2.38 s 3H 6.90 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.94 7.03 m 4H 7.24 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.27 s 1H 12.07 s 1H 13.21 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 296.0 M H CHNOS requires 297.08 . Purity 99 . Calcd for CHNOS C 68.66 H 5.08 N 4.71 S 10.78. Found C 68.60 H 4.97 N 4.70 S 10.67.

Following the method used to prepare 1 25 0.3 g 1.71 mmol and bis 4 methoxyphenyl disulfide 59 0.53 g 1.91 mmol provided 0.16 g of product 18e 29 as a brown solid mp 190 192 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.37 s 3H 3.68 s 3H 6.83 d J 8 Hz 2H 6.88 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.13 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.20 7.24 m 2H 11.98 s 1H 13.20 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 312.0 M H CHNOS requires 313.08 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS.0.1HO C 64.78 H 4.86 N 4.44 S 10.17. Found C 64.82 H 4.88 N 4.44 S 9.88.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 125 mg 0.71 mmol and 4 4 dithiobisbenzoic acid dimethyl ester 60 500 mg 1.45 mmol provided 85 mg of product 61 35 as a brown solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.38 s 3H 3.78 s 3H 6.92 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.07 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.25 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.75 d J 8 Hz 2H 12.11 s 1H 13.19 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 340.0 M H CHNOS requires 341.07 .

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 61 80 mg 0.23 mmol provided 46 mg 60 of product 18f as a white foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 6.96 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.06 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.29 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.31 s 1H 7.75 d J 8 Hz 2H 12.27 s 1H 13.01 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 326.1 M H CHNOS requires 327.06 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS C 62.37 H 4.00 N 4.28 S 9.80. Found C 62.24 H 3.94 N 4.19 S 9.72.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.15 g 0.86 mmol and bis 4 trifluoromethylphenyl disulfide 62 0.38 g 1.07 mmol provided 0.13 g of product 18g 43 as an off white solid mp 223 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.41 s 3H 6.98 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.15 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.30 7.33 m 2H 7.56 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.32 s 1H 13.37 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 350.1 M H CHFNOS requires 351.05 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHFNOS C 58.11 H 3.44 N 3.99 S 9.13 F 16.22. Found C 58.05 H 3.33 N 3.99 S 9.28 F 15.99.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 27 0.3 g 1.71 mmol and bis 4 methoxyphenyl disulfide 63 0.53 g 1.91 mmol provided 0.13 g of product 19 24 as a brown solid mp 185 186 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.60 s 3H 3.66 s 3H 6.78 6.83 m 3H 6.94 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.14 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.36 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.24 s 1H 13.28 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 312.0 M H CHNOS requires 313.08 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS.0.3HO C 64.05 H 4.93 N 4.39 S 10.06. Found C 64.09 H 4.77 N 4.34 S 9.98.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 27 0.3 g 1.71 mmol and bis p tolyl disulfide 58 0.51 g 2.07 mmol provided 0.09 g of product 19a 17 as an off white solid mp 202 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.19 s 3H 2.56 s 3H 6.89 6.79 m 3H 6.98 7.03 m 2H 7.18 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.29 s 1H 13.27 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 296.0 M H CHNOS requires 297.08 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS C 68.66 H 5.08 N 4.71 S 10.78. Found C 68.36 H 5.12 N 4.71 S 10.55.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 27 125 mg 0.71 mmol and 4 4 dithiobisbenzoic acid dimethyl ester 60 500 mg 1.45 mmol provided 85 mg of product 19b 35 as a brown solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.52 s 3H 3.78 s 3H 6.85 d J 7 Hz 1H 7.05 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.21 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.40 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.79 d J 8 Hz 2H 12.11 s 1H 13.19 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 340.0 M H CHNOS requires 341.07 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS C 63.33 H 4.43 N 4.10 S 9.39. Found C 63.44 H 4.40 N 4.06 S 9.27.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 27 0.3 1.71 mmol and 4 nitrophenyl disulfide 64 0.63 g 2.05 mmol provided 0.27 g of product 19c 48 as a yellow solid mp 242 244 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.53 s 3H 6.88 d J 7 Hz 1H 7.16 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.22 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.08 d J 9 Hz 2H 12.55 s 1H 13.47 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 327.0 M H CHNOS requires 328.05 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHNOS C 58.53 H 3.68 N 8.53 S 9.77. Found C 58.30 H 3.48 N 8.37 S 9.66.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.15 g 0.86 mmol and bis 2 4 dichlorophenyl disulfide 65 0.37 g 1.03 mmol provided 0.16 g of product 20 53 as an off white solid mp 250 252 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.41 s 3H 6.48 d J 9 Hz 1H 6.98 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.17 dd J 2 9 Hz 1H 7.30 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.33 s 1H 7.30 d J 2 Hz 1H 12.37 s 1H 13.44 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 350.0 352.0 M H CHClNOS requires 350.99 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 54.56 H 3.15 N 3.98 S 9.10 Cl 20.13. Found C 54.70 H 3.24 N 3.84 S 8.94 Cl 19.86.

Following the method used to prepare 1 product 1 0.15 g 0.85 mmol and bis 3 4 dichlorophenyl disulfide 66 0.37 g 1.03 mmol provided 0.13 g of product 21 43 as an off white solid mp 252 255 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.40 s 3H 6.95 dd J 2 9 Hz 1H 6.99 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.30 7.34 m 2H 7.46 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.30 s 1H 13.38 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 350.0 352.0 M H CHClNOS requires 350.99 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.04 CHCl C 54.17 H 3.14 N 3.94 S 9.02 Cl 20.74. Found C 54.00 H 2.95 N 3.93 S 9.02 Cl 20.74.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 29 150 mg 0.85 mmol and 66 370 g 1.03 mmol provided 157 mg of product 22 52 as a pale yellow solid mp 206 208 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.56 s 3H 6.95 dd J 2 9 Hz 1H 7.01 7.13 m 2H 7.24 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.28 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.45 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.28 s 1H 13.50 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 350.0 352.0 M H CHClNOS requires 350.99 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 54.56 H 3.15 N 3.98 S 9.10 Cl 20.13. Found C 54.73 H 3.21 N 4.00 S 9.19 Cl 19.86.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 38 125 mg 0.66 mmol and 66 266 mg 0.79 mmol provided 160 mg of product 23 66 as a pale yellow solid mp 220 222 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.23 t J 8 Hz 3H 2.73 q J 7 Hz 2H 6.95 dd J 2 9 Hz 1H 7.03 dd J 1 9 Hz 1H 7.25 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.33 s 1H 7.36 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 9 Hz 1H 12.31 s 1H 13.41 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 364.0 366.0 M H CHClNOS requires 365.0 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 55.75 H 3.58 N 3.82 S 8.75 Cl 19.36. Found C 55.66 H 3.52 N 3.77 S 8.65 Cl 19.14.

Following the method used to prepare 34 the use of 24 75 mg 0.21 mmol and TMSCHN 2.0 M solution in diethyl ether 0.22 mL 0.64 mmol provided 52 mg of product 27 72 as a white solid mp 214 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.42 s 3H 3.85 s 3H 6.98 7.04 m 3H 7.28 7.37 m 3H 12.50 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 364.0 366.0 M H CHClNOS requires 365.0 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 55.75 H 3.58 N 3.82 S 8.75 Cl 19.36. Found C 55.54 H 3.43 N 3.74 S 8.68 Cl 19.19.

To a solution of 24 120 mg 0.34 mmol in dry THF 4 mL under Nwere added EDCI 78 mg 0.40 mmol HOBt 54 mg 0.40 mmol and DIPEA 0.11 mL 0.68 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 15 min and MeNH 2.0 M solution in THF 0.34 mL 0.68 mmol was added. After stirring overnight the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with water and brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 10 MeOH CHClto provide 68 g 55 of product 28 as an off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.41 s 3H 2.85 d J 5 Hz 3H 6.96 7.02 m 3H 7.29 7.36 m 3H 8.12 8.19 m 1H 12.24 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 363.0 365.0 M H CHCNOS requires 364.0 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 55.90 H 3.86 N 7.67 S 8.78 Cl 19.41. Found C 55.87 H 3.82 N 3.49 S 8.80 Cl 19.18.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 30 0.3 g 1.86 mmol and 54 0.73 g 2.04 mmol provided 0.37 g of product 26 62 as an off white solid mp 181 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 6.99 s 1H 7.00 s 1H 7.19 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.31 7.38 m 2H 7.49 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.57 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.52 s 1H 13.54 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 335.9 337.9 M 11 CHClNOS requires 336.97 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 53.27 H 2.68 N 4.14 S 9.48 Cl 20.97. Found C 53.36 H 2.86 N 4.28 S 9.39 Cl 20.72.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.3 g 1.71 mmol and bis 2 4 5 trichlorophenyl disulfide 67 0.87 g 2.05 mmol provided 0.28 g of product 30 42 as an off white solid mp 240 243 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.42 s 3H 6.52 s 1H 7.02 d J 9 Hz 1H 7.29 7.37 m 2H 7.90 s 1H 12.45 s 1H 13.43 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 383.9 385.9 M H CHClNOS requires 384.95 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.5HO.0.1CHNO DMF C 48.58 H 2.93 N 3.82 S 7.96 Cl 26.39. Found C 48.93 H 2.58 N 3.61 S 7.92 Cl 26.04.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 29 0.15 g 0.86 mmol and 67 0.44 g 1.03 mmol provided 0.17 g of product 30a 50 as an off white foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.57 s 3H 6.55 s 1H 7.01 7.11 m 2H 7.25 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.86 s 1H 12.13 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 384.0 386.0 M H CHClNOS requires 384.95 . Purity 98 . Calcd for CHClNOS.0.2HO C 49.24 H 2.69 N 3.59 S 8.22 Cl 27.25. Found C 49.08 H 2.68 N 3.52 S 7.95 Cl 26.92.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 27 0.15 g 0.86 mmol and 67 0.44 g 1.03 mmol provided 0.26 g of product 30b 78 as an off white solid mp 260 261 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.51 s 3H 6.50 s 1H 6.90 d J 7 Hz 1H 7.23 t J 8 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.89 s 1H 12.60 s 1H 13.52 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 383.9 385.9 M H CHClNOS requires 384.95 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 49.70 H 2.61 N 3.62 S 8.29 Cl 27.51. Found C 49.49 H 2.47 N 3.61 S 8.56 Cl 27.29.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.15 g 0.86 mmol and 4 4 bis trifluoromethyl 2 2 dinitrodiphenyldisulfide 68 0.46 g 1.03 mmol provided 0.14 g of product 31 41 as a yellow solid mp 238 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.42 s 3H 6.96 7.00 m 2H 7.33 7.37 m 2H 7.80 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.51 s 1H 12.51 s 1H 13.50 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 395.0 M H CHFNOS requires 396.04 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHFNOS C 51.52 H 2.80 N 7.07 S 8.09 Cl 14.38. Found C 51.32 H 2.70 N 6.93 S 8.15 Cl 14.39.

To a solution of impure 1g product 0.19 g 0.59 mmol in a mixture of methanol and toluene 6 mL 1 2 was added TMSCHN 2.0 M solution in diethyl ether 0.6 mL 1.2 mmol dropwise under N. The reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 50 EtOAc hexanes to provide 0.15 g 75 of product 34 as an off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.93 s 3H 6.88 6.95 m 1H 7.06 7.16 m 5H 7.45 750 m 1H 9.22 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 336.0 M H CHClFNOS requires 335.02 .

Methyl 2 azido 3 4 ethylphenyl acrylate 36 1.0 g 4.33 mmol was dissolved in p xylene and heated at reflux for 3 h. After evaporation of the solvent the residue was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with a linear gradient ranging from 0 to 20 EtOAc hexanes to provide 0.52 g 59 of product 37 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.28 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.79 q J 7 Hz 2H 3.94 s 3H 7.03 dd J 2 8 Hz 1H 7.17 7.18 m 1H 7.21 7.23 m 1H 7.60 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.78 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 202.0 M H CHNOrequires 203.09 .

Following the method used to prepare 47 the use of 37 0.52 g 2.56 mmol provided 0.45 g 92 of product 38 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.20 t J 7 Hz 3H 2.66 q J 7 Hz 2H 6.94 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.01 7.03 m 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.54 d J 8 Hz 1H 11.61 s 1H 12.83 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 188.0 M H CHNOrequires 189.08 .

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 38 125 mg 0.66 mmol and 3 3 5 5 tetrachlorodiphenyl disulfide 54 266 mg 0.79 mmol provided 165 mg of product 25 68 as a brown solid mp 196 199 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.23 t J 8 Hz 3H 2.75 q J 7 Hz 2H 6.99 d J 2 Hz 2H 7.06 dd J 1 9 Hz 1H 7.31 7.34 m 2H 7.38 d J 8 Hz 1H 12.30 s 1H 13.46 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 364.0 366.0 M H CHClNOS requires 365.0 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 55.75 H 3.58 N 3.82 S 8.75 Cl 19.36. Found C 55.98 H 3.61 N 3.82 S 8.63 Cl 19.18.

Following the method used to prepare 1 the use of 25 0.15 g 0.85 mmol and 54 0.36 g 1.02 mmol provided 0.12 g of product 24 40 as a brown foam. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.42 s 3H 6.97 7.01 m 3H 7.29 7.35 m 3H 12.34 s 1H 13.46 s 1H . LC MS CI m z 350.0 352.0 M H CHClNOS requires 350.99 . Purity 100 . Calcd for CHClNOS C 54.56 H 3.15 N 3.98 S 9.10 Cl 20.13. Found C 54.70 H 3.24 N 3.84 S 8.94 Cl 19.86.

The synthetic scheme for many of the compounds describe herein are depicted in the following Schemes 3 7 

Reagents used were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. unless otherwise noted and used without further purification. African green monkey kidney epithelial cells BSC 1 were maintained in DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum growth medium 50 g mL gentamicin in a humidified incubator at 37 C. and 5 CO. Cells were not used beyond 10 passages. Vaccinia virus WR strain was a kind gift from G. H. Cohen and R. Eisenberg. Recombinant VACV vL1Ri was obtained from B. Moss.vL1Ri under the control of the T7 promoter and lac operator was propagated in growth medium containing 50 M isopropyl D thiogalactopyranoside IPTG . Compounds were prepared at 100 mM stocks in DMSO. actin mouse monoclonal antibody was purchased from Sigma Aldrich. A4 rabbit polyclonal antibody was a kind gift from G. H. Cohen and R. Eisenberg. E3 mouse monoclonal was generously given by S. N. Isaacs. Bromodeoxyuridine BrdU Alexa Fluor 488 conjugated anti mouse antibody and ProLong Gold antifade reagent with DAPI were purchased from Life Technologies Grand Island N.Y. . Mouse anti BrdU was purchased from Cell Signaling Technology Danvers Mass. .

A20NT100 was obtained through Rosetta de novo structure prediction Bonneau et al. 2002 322 65 78 . D4 was uploaded as a modified version of an X ray crystallographic structure PDB accession no. 2OWQ inserted with missing amino acids from R167 to P173 which corresponded to an unresolved loop Schormann et al. 2007 7 45 . This prevented a false pocket as the result of the missing residues in the crystal structure. PDB files of A20NT100 and D4 were uploaded to the ICM Pro software Molsoft LLC San Diego Calif. for protein protein molecular docking Abagyan et al. 1994 15 488 506 . The D4 structure was removed of ligands and cofactors while A20NT100 was subjected to regularization to ensure global energy minimization. Both structures were then converted to ICM objects and docked. The protein conformation of A20NT100 D4 dimer complex to be used as receptor for subsequent compound docking was chosen through the aid of FTMAP Brenke et al. 2009 25 621 627 . The probe set consisted of acetamide acetonitrile acetone acetaldehyde methylamine benzaldehyde benzene isobutanol cyclohexane N N dimethylformamide dimethyl ether ethanol ethane phenol isopropanol and urea. Through FTPMAP A20NT100 and D4 were individually identified of low molecular weight ligand binding sites Brenke et al. 2009 25 621 627 . The sites of ligand clustering therefore are identified as hot spots for protein protein interaction. The docked A20NT100 D4 conformation chosen thus contained hot spots within the protein protein interface to serve as targets for compound design. Compounds were drawn by Symyx Draw 4.0 Accelrys San Diego Calif. and uploaded to ICM Pro where they were parameterized for the docking procedure. Docking thoroughness was set at 10.

Experiments were performed as previously described Nuth et al. 2011 54 3260 7 in triplicates and independently repeated at least twice for the assessment of antiviral activity IC and cytotoxicity CC . Neutral Red was included for cytotoxicity measurements in addition to LDH.

BSC 1 cells were seeded at 1.6 10cells per well in a glass bottomed 24 well plate MatTek Corporation Ashland Mass. overnight in 1 mL of growth medium containing 50 M IPTG. One or 100 M compound 24a or CDV respectively was added to cells for 1 h at 37 C. followed by the addition of vL1Ri at 5 MOI for 1 h at 25 C. Cells were further incubated at 37 C. for an additional 8 h prior to microscopy. DMSO was maintained at 1 for all experiments. Live cells were imaged on a Nikon Eclipse TE2000 U fluorescence microscope Nikon Instruments Inc. Melville N.Y. . At least five random fields of view were imaged for each treatment and experiments were independently repeated. Of note the treatment with 24a post vL1Ri adsorption i.e. no compound pre incubation still showed appreciable EGFP expression while CDV showed comparable EGFP expression and CPE to DMSO vehicle .

BSC 1 cells were seeded overnight at 5 10cells well on glass coverslips in a 24 well plate. Cells were infected at 1 MOI and either treated with 1 DMSO or 1 M of compound 24a in the presence of BrdU. At 4 and 8 hpi cells were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde in PBS and permeabilized with 0.2 Triton X 100 in PBS. The coverslips were blocked with 3 BSA in PBS for 1 h and stained with mouse anti BrdU followed by Alexa Fluor 488 conjugated anti mouse antibody. The cells were then mounted in ProLong Gold antifade reagent containing DAPI and visualized with a Nikon Eclipse TE300 confocal microscope Nikon Instruments Inc. Melville N.Y. equipped with the LaserSharp2000 software Bio Rad Hercules Calif. . Three random fields of view were imaged for each treatment and experiments were independently repeated.

BSC 1 cells were seeded overnight in 6 well plates at 8 10cells well. Cells were then infected at 1 MOI in 800 L growth medium well by adsorbing at 25 C. for 1 h. Compounds were subsequently added to a final volume of 1 mL and the cells were moved to 37 C. for the indicated time of treatment. Cells were directly washed on the plate with PBS twice detached by sitting on ice collected by centrifugation at 1200 g for 10 mM at 4 C. and lysed in RIPA buffer on ice for 1 h. Proteins were resolved by 12 SDS PAGE transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane at 50 V for 1 h and blocked with 5 nonfat milk in Tris buffered saline containing 0.05 Tween 20 TBST . Blots were probed overnight at 4 C. with A4 E3 or actin antibody in 5 milk TBST. Blots were then rinsed thrice with TBST and incubated with to either goat anti mouse or anti rabbit IgG horseradish peroxidase conjugates for 1 h at rt in 5 milk TBST followed by rinsing five times with TBST once with water and visualized by enhanced chemiluminescence.

Half maximal ICand CC values were obtained by nonlinear regression by fitting to a variable slope four parameter dose response model using the Prism software GraphPad Software LaJolla Calif. .

Processive DNA synthesis was catalyzed by early expressed vaccinia proteins from cytoplasmic extracts of BS C 1 cells infected with the vaccinia virus strain WR. harvested 6 hours after infection. The cytoplasmic extracts were filtered twice through 0.2 mm and contained no infectious particle as shown by plaque assay.

Annealed Primer Biotinylated Template synthesized by Integrated DNA Technologies Pimer 20 nucleotides 5 GCGAATGAATGACCGCTGAC 3 SEQ ID No. 1 Template 100 nucleotides 5 end biotinylated 5 Biotin GCACTTATTGCATTCGCTAG TCCACCTTGG ATCTCAGGCT ATTCGTAGCG AGCTACGCGT ACGTTAGCTT CGGTCATCCC GTCAGCGGTC ATTCATTGGC 3 SEQ ID NO. 11 .

Annealing 15 nmoles 92 mg of primer and 15 nmoles 470 mg of template are mixed in 1.5 mL PBS pH 7.3 and annealed by heating to 90 C for 5 minutes then cooled to room temperature. The final P T concentration is 10 mM or 10 pmole mL.

SigmaScreen Streptavidin coated plates 384 well clear Sigma cat S8686 100EA Digoxigenin 11 2 deoxy uridine 5 triphosphate DIG 11 dUTP alkali stable 1 mM Roche cat 11 570 013 910 Deoxynucleotide Triphosphate Set PCR Grade Na Salt 100 mM Roche cat 11969064001 Anti Digoxigenin POD Fab fragments from sheep Roche cat 11 207 733 910 2 2 Azino bis 3 ethylbenzthiazoline 6 sulfonic acid diammonium salt ABTS Roche cat 10 102 946 001 dissolved in ABTS buffer Roche cat 11 112 597 001 at 1 mg mL Blocking reagent Roche Cat 11 096 176001 10 w v in maleic acid buffer 0.1 M maleic acid 0.15 M NaCl pH to 7.5 diluted 1 10 in PBS to 1 w v final. Stop 2 SDS 50 mM EDTA 10 mM Tris pH8

Throughout the study thymidine kinase TK deficient strain of vaccinia virus provided by Drs. G. Cohen and R. Eisenberg was used to infect BSC 1 cells 34 . Vaccinia virus infected cell lysate was prepared as previously described 16 . Briefly the cells were infected at a multiplicity of infection of 15. The vaccinia infected cells were incubated at 37 C. for 6 h in the presence of hydroxyurea then harvested by scraping and pelleted at 500 rpm. The pellet was washed with phosphate buffered saline PBS followed by hypotonic buffer 10 mM Hepes 1.5 mM MgCl2 10 mM KCl . The cells were then Dounce homogenized and centrifuged at 15 000 rpm for 30 mM The cell suspension was passed through a 2 micron filter to remove the viral cores and nuclear particles. At this point the vaccinia infected cytoplasmic lysate was stored in 80 C. in the presence of 20 glycerol. Vaccinia E9 A20 and D4 proteins were translated in vitro as previously described 34 . The proteins were expressed from pcDNA3.2 v5 Invitrogen in vitro using Promega TNT coupled transcription translation system. The translation reactions were labeled with 35S methionine fractionated on 10 SDS PAGE and visualized by autoradiography.

A rapid plate DNA synthesis assay 19 was performed using optimized conditions. Briefly a 1.2 1 ratio of a 20 mer oligonucleotide primer 5 GCGAATGAATGACCGCTGAC 3 SEQ ID No. 1 and a 5 end biotinylated 100 mer oligonucleotide template 5 Biotin AGCACTATTGACATTACAGAGTCGCCTTGGCTCTCTGGCTGTTCGTTGCGGGCTCCG CG TGCGTTGGCTTCGGTCGTCCCGTCAGCGGTCATTCATTGGC 3 SEQ ID No. 2 were annealed and loaded into a 96 well microtiter streptavidin coated plate Streptawell plates Roche Applied Science Indianapolis Ind. USA at 5 pmol well. The wells were incubated at 37 C. for 90 mM and washed with 100 L PBS. The reaction was conducted in low salt buffer 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 3 mM MgCl2 0.1 mM EDTA 0.5 mM DTT 2 glycerol 40 ug mL BSA 5 uM dNTPs 1 uM digoxigenin 11 2 deoxyuridine 5 triphosphate DIG dUTP Roche Applied Science with 1 L vaccinia infected cell lysate or 1 uL of in vitro translated E9 DNA polymerase. The reaction plates were incubated at 37 C. for 30 mM Total DNA synthesis activities were determined through incorporation of DIG dUTP using a DIG detection ELISA kit Roche Applied Science and its substrate 2 2 azino bis 3 ethylbenzthiazoline sulfonate ABTS . The plates were read at an absorbance of 405 nm on a microplate reader Tecan Genius Pro Tecan US .

African green monkey kidney BSC 1 cells were grown in Dulbecco s modified Eagle medium DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS Gibco BRL Life Technologies Gaithersburg Md. and 0.1 gentamicin antibiotic at 37 C. in a humidified 5 CO2 environment. Confluent BSC 1 cells were infected with vaccinia virus at an MOI of 0.005 in 48 well plate. The test compounds and control cidofovir were dissolved in DMSO and diluted with the medium. One hour post infection 400 L of the test compounds and control were added per well at concentrations ranging from 200 nM to 200 M and incubated at 37 C. for 16 hours. A 5 solution of formaldehyde in PBS was used to fix the cells. After washing twice with PBS the plate was stained with 0.2 crystal violet in 50 ethanol.

A cytotoxicity assay that measures the release of glyceraldehydes 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH was conducted using the aCella TOX bioluminescence cytotoxicity kit Cell Technology Inc. Mountainview Calif. following the manufacturer s protocol. Briefly BSC 1 cells were grown to confluency in white 96 well cell culture plates at 37 C. in DMEM containing 10 FBS and 0.1 gentamicin in the presence or absence of inhibitor 200 nM to 200 uM . A lysing agent that produces maximum release of GAPDH served as a positive control.

In determining the cellular therapeutic index no tests were conducted at concentrations greater than 200 M due to the limited availability of the compounds and solubility issues at higher stock concentrations. The concentration of inhibitor that causes half of the maximum cell cytotoxicity CC50 and the concentration that reduces 50 of the plaques IC50 were used to determine the therapeutics index as follows 

The cell viability at the plaque IC50 value was performed using two independent methods cell counting and MTT assay. For the cell counting method cells were incubated overnight at 37 C. to sub confluency in 48 well plates. The compounds dissolved in DMSO were further diluted in media to a final concentration required to achieve the plaque IC50 value. The cells were incubated with the compounds for 24 hrs. The media was removed the cells trypsinized and stained with tryphan blue and counted. The MTT assay was also used to confirm to cell viability at the plaque IC50. Cells were seeded at 1.5 104 cells well in a 96 well plate and incubated overnight at 37 C. at 5 CO2. Compounds dissolved in DMSO were mixed with media to obtain the concentration required to achieve the plaque IC50 value and incubated with the cells for 16 h. Each well received 20 L of the MTT solution 5 mg MTT mL PBS and the plate was rocked for 5 min. The plates were incubated for an additional 5 h to metabolize MTT after which the media was removed and the plates were air dried. To resuspend the formazan the end product of the MTT assay 200 L of DMSO was added to each well and the plates were rocked for 5 10 min Absorbance was read at 560 nm.

BSC 1 cells in 48 well plates were infected with vaccinia virus at an MOI of 30. The test compounds were added to a final concentration of 20 nM and incubated at 37 C. Infection time points were obtained by removing the media lysing and scraping the cells into pre cooled tubes. Total RNA from the samples were isolated using RNeasy mini RNA kit from Qiagen and quantified by measuring the absorbance on Nanodrop Nanodrop Technologies Wilmington Del. . Equal aliquot volumes of each sample were reverse transcribed according to Superscript first strand DNA synthesis system Invitrogen protocol. Quantitative RT PCR was performed using LightCycler DNA Master Sybr Green from Roche and primers designed to probe for early E3 late F9 viral genes and host GAPDH mRNA expression. The levels of expressed viral genes were normalized according to the level of GAPDH. The primer pairs used were F9L Fwd GGACAGTTTAAAAATTGCGCGCTCCG F9L SEQ ID No. 3 Rev CGTCTAGATCTATTC CTATTT CTTCAG CGATAGC SEQ ID No. 4 B5R Fwd CTTCGGATCCAAATGCTGTCTGCG SEQ ID No. 5 B5R Rev CGCCGTTGCAACTTAGTGT CATGGTG SEQ ID No. 6 E3L Fwd GGAATCGAA GGAGCTACTGCTGCAC E3L SEQ ID No. 7 Rev CTTATCCGCCTCCGTTG TCATAAACC SEQ ID No. 8 gapdh Fwd CCATGGTGAAGGTGAAGACTGC SEQ ID No. 9 GAPDH Rev CAGCCTTGAC AGTGC CATGG SEQ ID No. 10 . The thermal cycler conditions were 10 min at 95 C. 45 cycles of 5 s at 95 C. followed by 5 s at 60 C. and 5 s at 72 C. All of the samples were assayed in duplicate. A DNA standard calibration curve was plotted using known concentrations of standard cDNA and primers.

Methyl placement on the indolic benzene at the R R or Rposition yielded the constitution isomers 1a 1b and 1c respectively with comparable antiviral activities IC 46 86 M and binding efficiency indices BEI 12.8 13.0 to 1. The ethyl substituted 1h and the dimethyl product 1j showed similar profiles. Halide replacement at the Rmethyl did not afford significant activity improvement to the isosteres 1e 1f and 1g IC 40 51 M over the parent 1 Table 1 . In contrast the esterification of the Rmethyl or the complete removal of the methyl group yielded the loss of activity to 1i or 1d respectively. In sum these observations indicate while substitution at the indolic benzene is necessary for function none of the altered substitution was able to substantially increase inhibition over 1.

The potential contribution by the Rmodification on the indolic pyrrole was examined Table 1 . Since there appeared to be no preference for the site of methyl placement on the indolic benzene the Rmethyl substituted analogs for consistency were chosen to focus on. Test compounds 2 R Me and 3 R Et represent the acid forms at the pyrrolic Rposition while 4 R Me and 5 R Et are representative methyl esters Table 1 . The Rethyl analogs 3 and 5 showed a modest 1.5 and 4 fold improvement in activity IC 86 and 39 M over the corresponding Rmethyl analogs 2 and 4 IC 135 and 163 M respectively suggesting a potential contribution from the Rposition. However removal of the Rfunctional group led to a more active 6 R H R COMe IC 19 M implying the Ras a better design route than the Rposition. This is further supported by a modest 2 fold improvement in activity of 5 R Et R COMe over 3 R Et R COH Table 1 . To test whether further improvement could indeed be achieved through the Rmodification straight chain COMe and COEt branched COPr and aromatic COPh and COBn esters were generated. While 10 17 were no longer active the methyl esters 8 and 9 exhibited comparable activities IC 23 and 21 M respectively to 6 Table 1 and constitutional isomer of 6 8 and 9 compound 7 R Me failed to show activity. The observation shown for 6 8 and 9 nonetheless reinforces the Rposition as an important site for compound improvement.

Compound 1 consists of a single chloride at the thiophenyl R position. Removal of this chloride atom compound 18 abolished its antiviral activity Table 2 . The series consisting of 18d 18e 19 19a and 19b represent test compounds with introduced electron donating groups Me OMe and COMe at the R position Table 2 . All failed to show antiviral activities. In contrast activities were maintained with the electron withdrawing groups F and CFfor 18a 18b and 18g respectively IC 51 56 and 33 M . However the loss of activity to 18c R Br 18f R COH and 19c R NO may suggest atom type preference. Indeed the loss of activity by 31 lends credence since the difference between it and the CF containing 18g is the NOaddition at the R position Table 4 .

Although F and CFappear to be interchangeable with the parental Cl the chloro analogs exclusively was chosen to focus on largely due to the lack of improvement with either For CF. As such the potential to improve activity with increasing number of chloride atoms was interrogated by examining dichloro Table 3 and trichloro analogs Table 4 . The dichloro compounds 20 21 22 and 24 represent constitutional isomers containing the Rposition acid that differ in the indole methyl and thiophenyl chloride attachment while 30 30a and 30b are comparable trichloro constitutional isomers only differing in methyl placement on the indolic benzene. Analogs 30 30a and 30b shared similar potency IC 25 21 and 18 M respectively and cytotoxicity CC 78 93 and 65 M respectively profiles Table 4 . Alternatively the dichloro analogs 20 21 22 and 24 showed approximately 2 11 fold activity improvement IC 7 37 M over the parent 1 Table 3 thereby prompting to proceed optimization with the dichloro analogs instead of the trichloro substituents. Specifically chloro substitutions at the R and Rpositions appeared responsible for the improved activity of 24 IC 7 M over 20 22 IC 34 37 M which contain chlorides at the R and R positions Table 3 . Next the contribution from the Rposition of 24 to compound activity was examined. This was accomplished by the removal or ethyl replacement of the Rmethyl to yield 26 or 25 respectively. While 25 showed comparable activity IC 9 M to 24 6 fold decrease in activity IC 43 M was observed for 26 Table 3 thereby suggesting the contribution of activity from the Rposition. In comparison to 24 both 25 and 26 resulted in slightly lower BEI values 14.6 vs. 13.8 and 12.9 respectively indicating the Rmethyl to be the preferred route. Moreover since the requirement of the Rposition for compound function was observed it was tested whether modification at this position could lead to further improvement as based on the chemical scaffold of 24. To assess this the amide analog 28 R CONHMe was generated but resulted in the loss of activity Table 3 . Next a methyl ester 27 was generated that also led to the loss of activity Table 3 . This was surprising since 27 is the dichloro form of 6 which showed an IC 19 M Table 1 . Experimentally an increase in cytotoxicity was observed which may be responsible for the inability to determine an accurate ICvalue. To address whether the chlorides could indeed contribute to cytotoxicity both thiophenyl chlorides were removed from the scaffold of 24 to generate the methyl ester 29. Within experimental errors the potency IC 10 M and cytotoxicity CC 26 M profiles were observed to be comparable to 24 Table 3 . Taken together an internal amide at the Rposition does not appear to be tolerated while compound improvement is not supported by the additional chloride. In agreement the monochloro 6 and dichloro 24 showed similar BEI values 14.5 vs. 14.6 respectively . Moreover no increase in cytotoxicity is observed with the additional chloride. So with respect to the loss of activity observed for 27 there might be an imparting of electronic properties of the chlorides onto the Rester as to render the compound less active. In proceeding with compound design 29 BEI 16.8 along with 6 and 24 serve as desirable scaffolds.

In an attempt to select a compound amenable for further improvement the binding efficiency index BEI as a useful index was considered. Proposed by Abad Zapatero and Metz Abad Zapatero et al. 2005 10 464 469 the BEI pIC MW serves as a useful metric for compound optimization. With BEI values of 14.5 14.6 and 16.8 compounds 6 24 and 29 represent the highest ranked compounds respectively among the 57 analogs synthesized. Since the pICterm in the BEI calculation corresponds to antiviral activity these three compounds therefore reflect leads with high potency. Notably all three compounds exhibited comparable cytotoxicity profiles. In the current study compound 24 was chosen to develop mainly due to the apparent increase in compound solubility as the result of the introduced chlorides since many of these indole analogs tend to exhibit poor solubility as to become problematic for in vitro experiments.

While A20 has been recently shown to play a critical role in processive DNA synthesis of vaccinia virus Klemperer et al. 2001 75 12298 12307 Stanitsa et al. 2006 281 3439 3451 and Druck Shudofsky et al. 2010 84 12325 12335 there is a lack of biochemical and structural information. Moreover the problems associated with A20 protein expression remains elusive. Since standard sequence homology based structure design proved unsuccessful a de novo approach was undertaken by way of the Rosetta procedure which allows for the prediction of low energy global conformations built from energy minimized ensemble of local structure fragments Bonneau et al. 2002 322 65 78 Bonneau et al. 2001 43 1 11 and Simons et al. 1999 34 82 95 .

The increasing length of A20 starting from the N terminus was examined for protein fold. Peptides consisting of 25 50 and 100 amino acids were superimposable . The N terminal 100 amino acid peptide of A20 hereafter referred to as A20NT100 was chosen to focus on largely due to the inclusion of residues shown necessary for D4 binding Ishii et al. 2002 303 232 239 . In addition the protein fold consisting of three peripheral helices and a potential core made up of three O sheets appears contiguous and undisruptive . Increased chain length led to increasing loss of superimposition of structures as well as the failure of the prediction by the Rosetta procedure data not shown . A20NT100 was next docked with the crystallographic form of D4 Schormann et al. 2007 7 45 . The choice of docked pose was aided with the help of FTMAP a computational fragment based approach that uses a fast Fourier transform correlation technique to identify low molecular weight ligand binding sites Brenke et al. 2009 25 621 627. Thus hot spots represent regions where the ligands cluster and are potential druggable sites. A20NT100 and D4 were individually subjected to FTMAP and the conformation of the heterodimer chosen was the highest ranked pose identified by ICM Pro 40.3 kcal molbinding energy which bears two hot spots on the A20N100 surface and one on the D4 surface at the protein protein interface . The interface is brought about largely through contacts of the C terminal region of D4 encompassing residues 159 204 with the middle region of A20NT100 consisting mainly of residues of helix 2 and Table 6 . The docked protein complex served as receptor for subsequent interrogation of compound binding.

The docking of Compound 1 and analog 24 to the A20NT100 D4 heterodimer was localized to a newly formed pocket nearby the opening of the heterodimer interface with residues P68 of A20NT100 and R193 of D4 within proximity . Both compounds are superimposable with the thiophenyl ring seemingly solvent exposed and exhibiting favorable docking scores of 50.0 and 46.6 kcal mol for 1 and 24 respectively and Table 7 . Due to the importance of the pyrrolic Rposition for compound activity the Rposition formate of 24 was replaced with a propanamide producing 24a Scheme 1 . Significantly in a viral plaque reduction assay 24a exhibited a dramatic improvement in antiviral activity IC 42 nM Table 4 . The docking of 24a yielded a pose similar to 1 and 24 but with an improved score of 62.8 kcal mol. Since the docking procedure assumes a rigid body receptor it is unlikely the score reflects the ability of the propanamide extension to disrupt the protein protein interface. Nevertheless the pose suggests the proximity of the terminal amide to residues P68 of A20NT100 and R193 of D4.

Unlike early VACV genes expression of late genes is dependent upon viral DNA synthesis. Since A20 and D4 are critical components of the DNA replication machinery the ability of 24a to inhibit late viral gene expression was tested by using a recombinant VACV vL1Ri that encodes the EGFP marker under the control of a synthetic early late promoter. Indeed 24a at 1 M significantly reduced EGFP expression at 8 h post infection hpi a time at which the EGFP signal is normally amplified due to the increase in viral DNA replication . In comparison the chain terminator cidofovir CDV was equally effective at a higher dose 100 M . Notably a lowered cytophathic effect CPE was observed for 24a treatment compared to either vehicle or CDV treatments.

To further assess the inhibition of viral DNA synthesis by 24a the levels of actual early and late vaccinia virus marker proteins were compared. First the response to 24a was examined by the early protein encoded by the E3L gene which is an inhibitor of dsRNA binding in immune evasion Chang et al. 1992 89 4825 4829 . The E3 protein was detectable at 4 hpi an early time point with further accumulation at 8 and 12 hpi late time points . Only a slight decrease in protein level was observed following treatment with 1 M of compound 24a at 8 hpi . As a marker of late gene expression the product of the A4L gene was examined which is present in the viral core Maa et al. 1987 61 3910 3919 and is associated with morphogenesis Risco et al. 1999 265 375 386 . As seen in at a late time point of infection 12 hpi the levels of A4 protein in 24a treated cells were dramatically reduced in a dose dependent manner . These experiments clearly demonstrate that 24a prevents late gene expression while exhibiting minimal effects on early gene expression which is consistent with its ability to block viral DNA synthesis.

Poxviruses are unusual in that they replicate in the cytoplasm where they are visualized as focal sites of DNA replication often referred to as viral factories. In order to to directly examine the effect of 24a on viral replication its ability to prevent incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine BrdU into viral DNA was examined. As seen in BrdU labeling was localized to viral factories in untreated treated cell but was significantly suppressed in infected cells treated with 24a. This preclusion of BrdU incorporation by 24a is consistent with the ability of this analog to block viral DNA synthesis and replication.

The docked pose of 24a suggests the potential interaction of the propanamide with the nearby residues P68 of A20NT100 and R193 of D4 Scheme 1 inset . Since 24 is an acid at the pyloric Rposition it was hypothesized that in addition to the potential contribution of the propanamide extension of 24a in comparison to the formate of 24 the improvement in activity may be due to the H bond donating and accepting properties of the terminal amide. As such it was reasoned that the stabilization of 24a might be achieved through newly formed H bond pairing. To explore this possibility the propanoic acid precursor 24d was synthesized and examined for antiviral activity Scheme 1 . An approximate 5 fold decrease in potency IC 244 nM by 24d indicates that the terminal amide is preferred Table 5 whereby weaker charge and or van der Waals contributions may compensate for the loss of the amide nitrogen. Since H bond requires distant constraint compound 24a was shortened or lengthened by a methylene to generate the alkylamide analogs 24b or 24c respectively Scheme 2 . While the butanamide analog 24c showed 5 fold loss of activity IC 208 nM the acetamide analog 24b retained an activity IC 46 nM comparable to 24a. Compound 24b BEI 20.1 represents an improvement of 5.4 units over the parent 1 BEI 14.7 Table 5 . Since the BEI contains a logarithmic term this represents several orders of magnitude improvement of the design. Lastly compound 24e the N hexylation product of 24a Scheme 1 showed a complete loss of activity Table 5 . Taken together the hypothesis of a mechanism by which H bond contributes to the improvement of compound activity is supported. However a small set of analogs is limited and therefore cannot rule out other potential chemical contributions. In addition applying similar Rposition alkylamide modifications to scaffold 29 was to be tested to see if similar improvements are achieved. With a BEI value of 16.8 it represents an attractive starting point. Also with respect to cytotoxicity 24a and 24b represent the top two compounds with the highest selectivity indices SI 374 and 570 respectively . As such it was assessed whether improvement to cytotoxicity by 24a and 24b could be achieved by removal of the chlorides similarly to 29.

The structure of the N terminal 100 amino acid stretch was designed de novo by way of the Rosetta procedure. The first 25 amino acids adopted a protein fold consisting of two shorten helices. The increase of an additional 25 amino acids extends on the same two helices while further increase to a total of 100 amino acids introduces a third helix and three discernible sheets. The inclusion of 100 amino acid residues yielded a more complete tertiary structure whereby the three sheets are surrounded by the three helices. By contrast the N terminal 50 amino acid construct appeared flexible and likely unstable. Indeed protein preparations resulted in inclusion bodies and not capable of in vitro refolding M.N. observations .

For protein docking PDB files of the N terminal 100 amino acid protein of A20 A20NT100 and the modified version of the X ray crystallographic structure of D4 PDB accession no. 20WQ were uploaded to ICM Pro for molecular docking. The highest ranked pose for the protein protein interaction yielded a binding energy of 40.31 kcal mol through contact residues shown in Table 6. A new PDB coordinate was generated from this particular pose and subsequently used as receptor for compound binding. Binding energies for the analogs of compound 24 are shown in Table 7. Not shown in the table and for comparison the monochloro parent 1 had a score of 45.94 kcal mol.

As was shown in it was observed that the pretreatment of cells with 24a for 1 h prior to virus adsorption yielded a more pronounced effects on the EGFP expression. Even so suppression of EGFP was still observed when treated with 1 M of 24a after 1 h virus adsorption . However Cidofovir which clearly showed suppression of EGFP when pretreated exhibit EGFP expression comparable to vehicle treatment . In addition minimal cytotoxicity due to 24a was observed within the experimental time frame . Taken together the improved effectiveness of the compounds as the consequence of cell pretreatment may likely be due to the permitting of adequate time for compound permeation into cells.

In cells were infected at 5 MOI with vL1Ri for 1 h at 25 C. followed by the exchange to media containing either 1 or 100 M of compound 24a or cidofovir CDV respectively. Cells were further incubated at 37 C. for an additional 8 h prior to live cell microscopy. Cells were seeded overnight at 0.16 10BSC 1 cells well in a glass bottom 24 well plate MatTek Corporation Ashland Mass. in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 50 g mL gentamicin and cultured in a humidified chamber at 5 COatmosphere at the indicated temperatures. Vehicle was DMSO maintained at 1 for all experiments. Live cells were imaged on a Nikon Eclipse TE2000 U fluorescence microscope using a 10 objective.

Protein sequences of A20 and D4 from vaccinia virus were compared to other orthopoxviruses VARV MPXV and CPXV molluscipox MCV and herpesvirus EBV members.

When Compounds 24a 24b and 24c were tested for their abilities to block infection of the mD4 VV hybrid virus. The mD4 VV hybrid virus is vaccinia pox virus in which the vaccinia D4 encoding viral gene vD4 has been replaced with the Molluscum Contagiosum Virus MCV D4 encoding viral gene mD4 . These compounds also proved to be extremely potent inhibitors of the mD4 VV hybrid virus with ICvalues in the low nanomolar concentration specifically 24a 30 nM 24b 97 nM and 24c 199 nM. Significantly since each of these indole based compounds were able to block processive DNA synthesis in our in vitro Rapid Plate Assay U.S. Pat. No. 6 204 028 requiring only the protein triad mD4 vE9 and vA20 and since E9 was shown not to an E9 Pol inhibitor 101 it became apparent that these indole based compounds are targeting D4 A20. In accord with this conclusion is that the rational drug design that led to an increased potency of the original parental Lead compound 2 000 fold was based on a model in which 24a sandwiches between the docked interface of the D4 and A20 proteins. Thus the data indicate that the mechanism of action of these indole based compounds is that they act to disrupt a critical interaction between mD4 and mA20.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

