---

title: User-friendly transaction interface
abstract: Methods and systems for facilitating electronic transactions on a user device are described. User-friendly graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are provided with minimal text and more pictures and images. The GUIs detect or receive various gesture inputs, such as swiping, tapping, and dragging and dropping, and display a corresponding screen or page. The gesture inputs allow a user to select or specify payers/payees, transaction amounts, and funding sources, without having to type numbers or letters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547854&OS=09547854&RS=09547854
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09547854
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141202
---
The present invention generally relates to user interfaces that facilitate electronic transactions on user devices and more specifically to graphical user interfaces that detect gesture inputs and use minimal text and more pictures and images.

Mobile payment services are popular among consumers because of their convenience. Typically the mobile payment service is provided through a graphical user interface generated as a result of executing a service application and displayed on user devices. Such a graphical user interface typically shows various types of information on a merchant a desired purchase and payment instruments.

Most graphical user interfaces require a lot of reading and clicking to process payment requests which can be inconvenient for a consumer. Thus a need exists for a simpler more intuitive way to make payments on user devices.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The systems and methods described herein provide user friendly graphical user interfaces GUIs that facilitate electronic transactions such as payments on a user device. The GUIs may be used to send or request payment. In various embodiments the GUIs include colors bigger font sizes less words animation simple graphics and or visual indicators for generally time consuming actions. The GUIs allow a user to use gestures to input payment details such as payee merchant payer transaction amounts and or payment or funding sources.

A GUI representing a main page is displayed to a user on a user device. The GUI in various embodiments includes the user s group of contacts e.g. friends or merchants that the user has had financial transactions with in the past . In response to detected or received gesture inputs the user device displays various graphical elements. For example if the user taps on an image of a contact the image of the contact is enlarged and the user can engage in financial transactions with the contact. In certain embodiments the user wants to send a payment to the contact. By using various gesture inputs such as swiping tapping tracing and dragging and dropping the user is able to select or specify the payment amount and the funding source and complete the transaction. The degree of the gesture input in one embodiment can be used to specify payment amounts. For example the longer the length of a swiping gesture the greater the amount to be paid. In some embodiments the user wants to request payment from the contact. In another embodiment the speed of the gesture input indicates how fast to increase the payment amount.

As shown in the system includes a first user device e.g. a smartphone one or more merchant servers or devices e.g. network server devices a second user device e.g. a smartphone and at least one service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over the network . The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments the user devices and merchant servers or devices and service provider server or device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

The first user device and second user device in one embodiment may be utilized by first user and second user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example users and may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server and with each other via the user devices and .

The first user device and second user device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The first user device in one embodiment may be utilized by the first user to interact with the service provider server over the network . The second user device in turn may be used by the second user to interact with the service provider server . For example the first user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with the service provider server via the user device . In various implementations the user device may include at least one of a wireless cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA satellite phone wearable computing device mobile device etc.

The first user device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by the first user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding payment etc. with the second user device merchant server or device or with the service provider server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the first user via the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network .

In an example the first user is able to access merchant websites via the one or more merchant servers to view and select items for purchase and the first user is able to purchase items from the one or more merchant servers via the service provider server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments the first user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from the one or more merchant servers via the service provider server .

The first user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to the first user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

In various implementations a user profile may be created using data and information obtained from cell phone activity over the network . Cell phone activity transactions may be used by the service provider server to create at least one user profile for the first user based on activity from the first user device e.g. cell phone and for the second user based on activity from the second user device . The user profile may be updated with each financial and or information transaction e.g. payment transaction purchase transaction etc. achieved through use of the user devices and . In various aspects this may include the type of transaction and or the location information from the user devices and . As such the profile may be used for recognizing patterns of potential fraud setting transaction limits on the user etc.

The first user device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the first user device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the first user such as personal information related to the first user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers social security number etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the first user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

In certain embodiments first user device includes a payment application . In one embodiment a service provider distributes the payment application to first user device over the network . In some embodiments the payment application receives user information and creates a user profile containing the user information. The payment application in various embodiments collects information regarding financial transactions of user including who user has paid or received payment from e.g. merchants friends co workers etc. amounts involved in the transactions and payment instruments used in the transactions. In some embodiments the payment application receives or detects various user inputs and generates a graphical user interface based on the inputs.

Second user device may have similar applications and modules as first user device although not specifically shown. Second user device may also include a user interface application and one or more other applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit second user to browse information over network . For example in one embodiment user interface application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet and communicate with service provider server .

Second user device may further include other applications such as security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email text IM and voice applications that allow second user to communicate through network receive messages from first user and create and manage funding sources. Second user device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of second user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment recipient device authentication e.g. the phone number associated with second user device . Identifiers may be used by a service provider to associate second user with a particular account maintained by the service provider. Second user device may also include payment application .

User devices each also include a display to present a GUI for various types of applications. The display may be a liquid crystal display a thin film transistor liquid crystal display an organic light emitting diode a flexible display or 3D display but is not limited thereto.

In various embodiments the display is a touch screen configured to receive inputs and to display information. The display may include a touch sensor layered on or beneath the display. The touch sensor is configured to detect a touch input. The touch sensor may be a touch film a touch sheet or a touch pad. The touch sensor may be configured to convert a pressure applied to or a change in capacitance around a particular place on the display into an electric input signal. The touch sensor may detect a pressure a particular location where a touch input is made or a direction of a touch input. When the touch sensor detects a touch input the touch sensor sends a corresponding electric input signal to a touch controller. The touch controller processes the electric input signal and sends corresponding data to a main controller. The touch controller determines an area of the display where the touch input is made.

The touch screen may display one or more graphical elements as a user interface. Such a touch screen enables a user to select or to activate an operation associated with at least one graphical element displayed thereon. For example a user can select or activate at least one graphical element by touching the graphical element using one or more fingers or by releasing the touched graphical element. The touch screen may detect various types of gesture inputs. The gesture inputs may include a touch input a tap input a double tap input a hold input a touch and move input a flick or swipe input and a drag and drop input including performing one or more gestures at different speeds to perform different actions. The touch input may initiate operation for selecting a predetermined graphical element or an area around a predetermined graphical element. The tap input may initiate operation for executing an application associated with a predetermined graphical element. The double tap input may initiate operation for controlling e.g. enlarging or reducing a size of a graphical element. The hold input may initiate operation for activating a detailed menu associated with a selected graphical element. The touch and move input may initiate operation for scrolling a graphical element. The flick or swipe input may initiate operation for moving in and out of the layers of graphical elements. The drag and drop input may initiate operation for moving selected graphical elements.

In some embodiments the touch screen includes a multi touchscreen. Multi touchscreens can recognize multiple points of contact simultaneously and hence are able to detect several fingers of a user. This increases the number of possible gestures that are detected.

The device includes a communication module that is coupled to the network and to any or all of an interface module payee identity module payer identity module funding source module and payment status module any of which may be coupled to a storage module . Any or all of the modules may be implemented as a subsystem of the user device including for example a circuit a hardware component a hardware subcomponent and or a variety of other subsystems known in the art. Furthermore any or all of the modules may be preconfigured to perform their disclosed functionality or may be configured by a processing system on the fly or as needed to perform their disclosed functionality. As such any or all of the modules may include pre configured and dedicated circuits and or hardware components of the first user device or may be circuits and or hardware components that are configured as needed.

For example any or all of the modules may be provided via one or more circuits that include resistors inductors capacitors voltage sources current sources switches logic gates registers and or a variety of other circuit elements known in the art. One or more of the circuit elements in a circuit may be configured to provide the circuit s that cause the modules to perform the functions described below. As such in some embodiments preconfigured and dedicated circuits may be implemented to perform the functions of the modules . In other embodiments a processing system may execute instructions on a non transitory computer readable medium to configure one or more circuits as needed to perform the functions of the modules .

The communication module may be included as a separate module provided in the device or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in the device configure the communication module to send and receive information over the network as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. The interface module may be included as a separate module provided in the device or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in the device configure the interface module to generate an intuitive interface for user as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. In some embodiments the interface module uses user s information for example transaction history profile demographic information behavior and or information from social networking websites to generate the interface. In other embodiments interface module receives information from interface module payee identity module payer identity module funding source module and or payment status module . The payee identity module may be included as a separate module provided in the device or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in the device configure the payee identity module to provide suggested recipients of payment to interface module as well as provide any of the other functionality that is discussed herein. The payer identity module may be included as a separate module provided in the device or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in the device configure the payer identity module to provide suggested persons to request payment from to interface module . The funding source module may be included as a separate module provided in the device or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in the device configure the funding source module to provide available funding sources to interface module . The payment status module may be included as a separate module provided in the device or may be provided using instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processing system in the device configure the payment status module to determine and provide one or more stages of completion of a payment transaction to interface module . Furthermore other modules discussed above but not illustrated in may be provided as separate modules on the device or using instructions stored on a computer readable medium similarly as discussed above. While the storage module has been illustrated as located in the device one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that it may include multiple storage modules and may be connected to the modules through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The one or more merchant servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more business entities or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities . Examples of businesses entities include merchants resource information companies utilities real estate management companies social networking companies etc. which offer various items for purchase and payment. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of the user identity information as part of offering the items to the users over the network . As such each of the one or more merchant servers may include a merchant database for identifying available items which may be made available to the user devices for viewing and purchase by the users . In one or more embodiments users may complete a transaction such as purchasing the items via service provider server .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over the network to the user interface application of the user devices . For example first user may interact with the marketplace application through the user interface application over the network to search and view various items available for purchase in the merchant database .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include at least one merchant identifier which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that e.g. particular items are associated with particular merchants. In one implementation the merchant identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the merchant such as business and banking information. The merchant identifier may include attributes related to the merchant server or device such as identification information e.g. a serial number a location address GPS coordinates a network identification number etc. . In various embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items with each merchant server via the service provider server over the network .

A merchant website may also communicate for example using merchant server with the service provider through service provider server over network . For example the merchant website may communicate with the service provider in the course of various services offered by the service provider to merchant website such as payment intermediary between customers of the merchant website and the merchant website itself. For example the merchant website may use an application programming interface API that allows it to offer sale of goods in which customers are allowed to make payment through the service provider while users may have an account with the service provider that allows users to use the service provider for making payments to merchants that allow use of authentication authorization and payment services of service provider as a payment intermediary. The merchant website may also have an account with the service provider.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity or an online service provider which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the first user the second user and one or more of the merchant servers . As such the service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with the user devices and or each merchant server over the network to facilitate the searching selection purchase and or payment of items by the users from one or more of the merchant servers . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

The service application in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing application to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between the users and each of the merchant servers . In one implementation the payment processing application assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. As such the service application in conjunction with the payment processing module settles indebtedness between the users and each of the merchants wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. first user and second user and merchants e.g. one or more merchants associated with merchant servers . For example account information may include private financial information of users and each merchant associated with the one or more merchant servers such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between first user second user and the one or more merchants associated with the merchant servers . In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the users may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and users may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate users with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for facilitating an electronic transaction on a user device is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In various embodiments the users each register with a service provider which runs a mobile application. Registration may include signing up for the service and agreeing to any terms required by the service provider such as through a user device. In one embodiment the user device is a mobile computing device such as a smart phone a PC or a computing tablet. In other embodiments registration may be done completely through the user device partially through the user device or without using the user device such as through a phone call or in person visit to a representative of the payment service provider.

The user may be requested to provider specific information for registration such as but not limited to a name address phone number email address picture a user name for the account and a password or PIN for the account. The type of information may depend on whether the user already has an account with the service provider. Requested information may be entered through the user device or other means including voice or manual key entry. Once all the requested information is received and confirmed the service provider may create an account for the user.

At step first user initiates a payment transaction on first user device . For example first user can log in to payment application and choose an option of sending payment or requesting payment.

At step interface module generates a GUI to display to first user . As shown in an exemplary main page screen or display includes a search field and a group of images of friends or contacts . First user may use the search field to find a specific friend or contact. For example a phone number email address first name last name or location can be entered into search field .

Friends in friend images may be provided to interface module by payee identity module or payer identity module . In the example shown in payee identity module identifies and provides suggested or intended payees e.g. second user . The suggested payees may be based on one or more of for example transaction history e.g. persons first user borrowed money from and owes money to phone contacts or electronic mail contact lists location e.g. persons near or in close proximity to first user and contacts on social networking sites. In friends that are nearby or around first user are identified with an airdrop icon . This feature can be useful when friends go out together for a meal and one friend wants to pay back another friend for his or her share of the meal.

At step in response to a gesture input received or detected from first user that indicates a selection of a payee e.g. second user the interface module causes to be displayed a GUI with first user s selection of second user . illustrates an exemplary page that is presented to first user on first user device including the image of selected payee A. The image A is large and takes up most of the page to ensure that first user sees the image A and has made the correct selection. First user can tap anywhere outside the image A to return to the main page .

At step the interface module detects a gesture input from first user that indicates that first user would like to view the transaction history associated with the second user in image A and causes to be displayed a GUI with the transaction history . In an exemplary embodiment the gesture input is in the form of a horizontal swipe gesture to the left. The transaction history may be obtained from storage module or may be accessed by communicating with account database of service provider server . illustrates an exemplary page that is displayed when first user swipes friend image A to the left. As shown in the transaction history includes amounts owed to second user and associated dates. The large font of the words and numbers enables first user to easily read and locate payment amounts. Tapping on any of the displayed amounts can populate the amount to be sent to second user from first user . First user can also specify a different amount e.g. an amount that is not displayed in the transaction history to pay second user . In another embodiment first user can select a displayed amount and then revise the displayed amount as further discussed below.

At step the interface module detects a gesture input from first user that indicates that first user would like to view available funding sources and causes to be displayed a GUI with the available funding sources . In an exemplary embodiment first user horizontally swipes the friend image A to the right. illustrates an exemplary page that is displayed when first user swipes friend image A to the right. The available funding sources may include one or more bank accounts credit cards debit cards gift cards and service provider accounts. As shown the funding sources are depicted as cards with large easy to identify simple text.

In various embodiments funding source module determines available or preferred funding sources of first user . For example funding source module analyzes transaction history e.g. what funding sources or payment instrument first user has used in the past to pay second user or what funding sources first user typically uses available balances costs associated with each funding source available credit and pending transactions. In exemplary embodiments funding source module transmits or communicates the preferred funding sources to interface module for display.

At step interface module detects a gesture input from first user that indicates a selection of a funding source e.g. first user taps one of the funding sources and causes to be displayed a GUI with the selected funding source . illustrates an exemplary page that is displayed when first user selects the funding source . As shown a line which may be colored outlines the selected funding source . In an exemplary embodiment once a funding source is selected the unselected funding sources animate behind the chosen funding source and the page automatically animates the friend image A back to the center of the screen.

At step interface module detects a gesture input from first user that indicates how much he or she would like to send second user and causes to be displayed a GUI with the payment amount. In an exemplary embodiment interface module receives a swiping input from first user . First user in some embodiments swipes his or her finger around the friend image A to indicate the payment amount . For example the interface module detects a vertical or upward swipe gesture that includes a contact with the display and subsequent movement of the contact along the display to a new location . In some embodiments the swipe gesture by the first user may be detected anywhere on the display. In other embodiments the swipe gesture must be detected in a predefined area on the display such as the area around friend image A.

The speed or velocity of the swipe can indicate how fast to increase or decrease the payment amount . For example a faster swipe builds increments in dollars while a slower swipe builds increments in cents. In some embodiments the size or length of the swipe can indicate the size of the payment amount . For example larger payment amounts are indicated by swipes that travel farther around the circle of friend image A while smaller payment amounts are indicated by shorter distances around the circle. illustrates an exemplary page that is displayed when first user partially swipes the circle around friend image A to the left. In this embodiment the payment amount is 10.00. In other embodiments how long first user makes contact with the display can indicate the size of the payment. For example the longer first user holds down or presses a button on the page the larger the payment amount and the less time first user touches the display the smaller the payment amount. In certain embodiments the number of contact points detected on the display can indicate payment size. In these embodiments the greater the number of contact points used e.g. first user places three fingers on the display rather than one or two the larger the payment amount.

At step interface module detects a gesture input from first user that indicates that he or she would like to send the payment amount . To send the amount to second user first user can drag the payment amount into the circle of the friend image . illustrates an exemplary page that is displayed when first user drags the payment amount into the circle.

At step interface module causes to be displayed to first user a GUI that requests first user for input that first user is ready to send the payment amount . illustrates an exemplary page that is presented to first user . As shown a short and simple message in large font is overlaid on friend image A. First user can tap anywhere in the message circle to send second user the payment amount . In some embodiments first user can draw a checkmark in the message circle to indicate that payment is approved. Should first user wants to change anything in the payment request or to cancel he or she can tap the X . First user can also draw an X on the display. In exemplary embodiments animation pulses around the message circle as if suspended waiting for the first user s tap.

At step interface module causes to be displayed a GUI that shows that the transaction is completed. In various embodiments payment status module transmits a message to interface module that payment has been processed. illustrates an exemplary page that is presented to first user . As shown a checkmark animates into the circle. The interface module in some embodiments automatically closes the page and returns to the main page so that the cycle can be started again.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods that make paying with a user device more convenient. A user is able to use various gesture inputs to indicate details of a transaction rather than having to read and type words and numbers. Advantageously the present disclosure provides GUIs that allow a user to explore and navigate friends or contacts that are nearby easily populate transaction amounts using for example the speed of a gesture and complete transactions with minimal clicking.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system is illustrated suitable for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure including user devices and one or more merchant servers or devices and service provider server or device . In various implementations the user devices and may include a mobile cellular phone personal computer PC laptop wearable computing device etc. adapted for wireless communication and the merchant server and service provider server may comprise a network computing device such as a server. Thus it should be appreciated that the devices and may be implemented as computer system in a manner as follows.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user e.g. sender recipient service provider action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . For example processor can detect one or more gesture inputs and display one or more GUIs in response to the gesture inputs. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

