---

title: Composite laser gain medium
abstract: A composite laser gain medium is comprised of a first rare-earth element doped core; and a second rare-earth element doped cladding, at least partially, adjacent to the core. A portion of the lasing by the cladding at one wavelength within the composite laser gain medium is absorbed by the core so as to cause lasing of the core at a different wavelength. At least two distinct rare earth element pairs may be used in embodiments: (1) thulium (Tm) as a cladding rare-earth dopant and holmium (Ho) as the core rare-earth dopant; and (2) ytterbium (Yb) as a cladding rare-earth dopant and erbium (Er) as the core rare-earth dopant. Other rare earth element pairs are also believed possible. The laser composite gain medium may be configured to have a slab, or a cylindrical geometry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118164&OS=09118164&RS=09118164
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09118164
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140220
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Laser gain media are used in lasers. For example both thulium doped and holmium doped lasers are important laser sources because they are considered eyesafe i.e. in the 2 m spectral region and have applications in remote sensing and medical and military technology. Thulium has several favorable properties with respect to laser diode pumping such as a strong absorption band at a diode emission wavelength around 785 nm and an efficient cross relaxation process yielding two ions in the upper laser level per absorbed pump photon.

Some Tm Ho lasers are comprised of two separate laser systems combined in series. However the cost bulk and complexity of such systems are relatively high and flexibility of design options to tailor for different applications is limited. Other Tm Ho lasers are formed of a co doped holmium thulium laser gain element where the co doped laser gain element behaves as a single region.

According to one embodiment a composite laser gain medium is comprised of a first rare earth element doped core and a second rare earth element doped cladding at least partially adjacent to the core. A portion of the lasing by the cladding at one wavelength within the composite laser gain medium is absorbed by the core so as to cause lasing of the core at a different wavelength.

The laser composite gain medium may be configured to have a slab or cylindrical geometry. It may have a substantially uniform cross section along its length. In some embodiments in its cross section the cladding may fully surround the core along its length. And in other embodiments in its cross section the cladding may be adjacent to the core along its length on at least two sides thereof. The laser composite gain medium may further include an optical coating such that in its cross section the cladding is adjacent to one side of the core and the optical coating is adjacent to an opposite side of the core. In some instances the core may be in direct contact at least partially with the cladding.

At least two distinct rare earth element pairs may be used in embodiments 1 thulium Tm as a cladding rare earth dopant and holmium Ho as the core rare earth dopant and 2 ytterbium Yb as a cladding rare earth dopant and erbium Er as the core rare earth dopant. Other rare earth element pairs though are also believed possible. The core may have a refractive index smaller equal or larger than that of the cladding depending of the application. Also the composite laser gain medium may include at least one optical coating formed on an end surface of the composite laser gain medium which is orientated perpendicular to the core and cladding. Additionally or alternatively the composite laser gain medium may further include at least one optical coating formed on a side surface the composite laser gain medium which is orientated parallel to the core and cladding.

According to other embodiments a laser includes the composite laser gain medium. The laser may include at least one source to output light to be received by the composite laser gain medium. Also the laser may include at least one lens to focus the light output from the at least source onto the composite laser gain medium. In some instances the laser may further include at least one optical coating formed on one or both of the opposed end surfaces the composite laser gain medium which are orientated perpendicular to the core and cladding of the composite laser gain medium. The laser may further include at least one mirror positioned exterior to an end surface of the composite laser gain medium. Depending on the application of the laser the laser may be configured for a optical side pumping or b optical end pumping.

According to even further embodiments an optical waveguide includes the composite laser gain medium. As a waveguide a the core can be used as the waveguide b a mirror can be provided external to one end surface of the composite laser gain medium or c a pair of mirrors can be provided one of said pair being provided external to each end surfaces of the composite laser gain medium.

In general the fraction of the lasing wavelength power present in core increases over the case where core and cladding have the same refractive index as the refractive index of the cladding becomes larger than that of the core and decreases as the core refractive index becomes larger than the cladding. Consider an example in which the cladding is 500 m by 2000 m and has a refractive index of 1.8 and the core is 200 m by 200 m and has a refractive index of 1.78. The refractive index of the cladding here is larger than that of the core. The magnitude of an exemplary higher order mode is depicted in indicating that an appreciable fraction of the cladding mode intensity is present in the core region of the gain medium. Summation of all cladding modes allowed in the gain medium demonstrates that the fraction of power which is contained in the core region is greater in this case 7.7 than the ratio of the core cross sectional area to the gain cross sectional area 4 .

According to various embodiments at least two rare earth doped media may be used to form the composite laser gain medium . Both the core and cladding media include rare earth element dopants impregnated or otherwise incorporated in solid state host material. The dopants may include laser active rare earth elements and or ions. In general a first rare earth element used to dope the cladding layer should emit at a wavelength of light that can be absorbed by the core doped by a second rare earth element. This arrangement enables a portion of the laser emission by the cladding layer to be absorbed by the core for the purpose of optically pumping the core region. Optical pumping is the process in which light is used to raise or pump the electrons from a lower energy level in an active laser medium to a higher one.

There may be a number of factors to consider for selecting the particular rare earth dopants for the core and cladding respectively. In general there are two primary criteria when choosing the rare earth dopants. The first criterion stipulates that the cladding dopant should emit as a laser at a wavelength that will be absorbed by the core. The second criterion stipulates that over the length of the composite gain medium the cladding will absorb a great degree e.g. 80 100 of the diode pump source light while providing sufficient gain to lase the cladding. In other words the absorption coefficient which is roughly the product of the absorption cross section at the pumping source wavelength times the ion density multiplied by the cladding length should be about 2 or greater. Likewise the core should be of sufficient absorption such that at the cladding lasing wavelength the product of the absorption cross section at the cladding emission wavelength multiplied by the ion density multiplied by the cladding length is about 2 or greater.

The inventor has determined at least two distinct rare earth element pairs may be used in embodiments of the invention which meet the aforementioned criteria. These include 1 thulium Tm as a cladding rare earth dopant and holmium Ho as the core rare earth dopant and 2 ytterbium Yb as a cladding rare earth dopant and erbium Er as the core rare earth dopant. Other rare earth element pairs are also believed possible.

In general there are two classes of host material available for use in designing the core and cladding of the composite laser gain medium crystalline or glass materials. In keeping with convention weight percentage wt. is generally used when describing the dopant concentration is a glass matrix and atomic percentage at. is generally used when describing a crystalline matrix.

A rare earth doped crystalline host medium generally possesses larger absorption and emission cross sections and greater thermal conductivity than the same rare earth in a glass host. There are various methods of growing rare earth doped laser crystals such as The Czochralski CZ Temperature Gradient TGT heat Exchanger Vertical and Horizontal Bridgman Laser Heated pedestal Growth and Flux Techniques. The CZ techniques being the most common uses a Radio Frequency heated crucible to melt a mixture of rare earth and laser host components comprising yttrium aluminium garnet or YAG YAlO alumina AlO or yttrium orthovanadate YVO for example. A seed crystal is then placed in the melt and slowly drawn from liquid under rotation to produce a rare earth doped laser crystal. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 534 821 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Greater absorption and emission cross sections allow for a shorter length of gain medium e.g. less than about 10 mm . While shorter gain lengths of the rare earth doped crystal results in a proportional increase in the concentration of heat deposition in the gain medium the crystal host s greater thermal conductivity e.g. greater than about 5 times that of glass can be used to cool more effectively.

On the other hand a glass host has the advantage of allowing for production of long lengths of gain medium and when drawn in the form of an optical fiber which can be used to waveguide all of the optical wavelengths and used in production of the laser. Some common glass host materials for the rare earth ion dopants may include silicate phosphate fluoride germanate and fluorozirconate for example. There are two primary methods of manufacturing a doped glass media 1 deposition of a chloride based soot into a un doped glass rod commonly referred to as vapor axial deposition after which the rod is subjected to a rare earth chloride vapor or solution and then sintered and 2 deposition a chloride based soot on the inside walls of an un doped glass tube which is subjected to rare earth doped vapor or solution. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 8 418 504 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the laser gain medium may be formed to be about 20 to 50 mm long and 0.5 to 5 mm wide and 0.5 mm to 2 mm thick with the core measuring 20 to 1000 ms wide and 20 to 500 ms thick and the cladding measuring 0.5 to 5 mm wide to 0.5 mm to 2 mm thick. If a glass host medium is used the length dimension may be multiplied by a factor of 10 or greater.

Table I below shows exemplary lasing wavelengths for these two rare earth element pairs. For example in the case of a Tm doped YAG clad the laser will absorb at about 0.8 m and emit at 2.013 m a wavelength which is absorbed by Ho YAG core emitting at 2.097 m . For a choice of Yb and Er as a rare earth pair Yb doped silicate emitting at 0.98 m may be used to pump the Er silicate core absorbing at 0.98 m and emitting at 1.53 m . Of course it should be appreciated that the exact lasing wavelengths values for these pairs can vary from what is noted in this table based on specific dopant concentrations host material selection and or contaminants for instance.

The cladding is designed to lase at the wavelength which is capable of optically pumping the core . In the case of a Tm clad Ho core laser crystal laser a 3 Tm by concentration doping of a YAG clad in combination with a 10 Ho by concentration doping of a YAG core may be used for efficient operation of the laser. Over a 25 mm laser gain length using end pumping a 3 doping of Tm results in nearly complete absorption of the 785 nm pump light for conversion into 2013 nm radiation. A 10 Ho doping of the core results in strong absorption of the 2013 nm laser radiation produced by the Tm clad laser over the 25 mm length given a 5 10 core to clad cross section area. For the case of a 785 nm side pumped 5 nm wide laser the Tm doping would be increased to 10 15 .

The core and the cladding are arranged such that the cladding is at least partially adjacent to the core . More particularly the core may be in direct contact at least partially with the cladding in some embodiments. For example as shown the core and the cladding are discrete layers bordering one another along the length of the composite laser gain medium with an interface formed at their points of contact. It is possible though to have additional layer s such as an adhesive interposed between the core and cladding in other embodiments which are substantially transparent to the lasing light and do not affect lasing. For example a layer of material having a refractive index nearly identical to either the core or cladding could be incorporated into the composite laser gain medium .

When the composite laser gain medium is assembled the core may be bonded to the cladding with or without a separate adhesive for example. In some instances an optical contact bonding process may be used without any adhesive such that the surfaces thereof are joined together only by intermolecular forces. A high temperature fusion process might also be used. If an extrusion process is used to form the composite laser gain medium such as a high temperature drawing process for example typically used in glass fiber formation the core and cladding can be fused through the high temperature pulling. It is also possible that the composite laser gain medium could be formed using a single host material e.g. a crystalline or glass material in which and the core and cladding are distinct regions thereof with each region being formed in the host material by a separate diffusion or implantation process. The term composite as used herein thus should not be construed as being limited to separate and or discrete elements.

The end surfaces as illustrated in are generally perpendicular to the core and cladding . As shown first and second optical coatings and may be formed on the end surfaces of the laser gain medium in some embodiments. The first and second optical coatings and when present may be anti reflective AR highly reflective HR partially reflective PR and or transparent to different wavelengths of light depending of a particular laser application.

In the first embodiment I the core has generally a rectangular shape whereas in the second embodiment II the core has generally a square shape. The large cross sectional core to clad ratio e.g. greater than about 10 in the first embodiment I results in a like ratio of overlap of the cladding mode radiation with the core region. While the composite laser gain medium shown here is illustrated in a cross sectional rectangular configuration it should be appreciated that composite laser gain medium can be formed in various other configurations such as in an annular or ring like or even in an irregular shape configuration. The overlap of the cladding radiation with the core is experienced as an intracavity loss by the cladding laser due to absorption by the core. This configuration allows for a large fraction of the laser light generated by the cladding to optically pump the core in proportion of the ratio of core cross sectional area to slab cross sectional. As the core to gain cross sectional area is large e.g. greater than 0.1 a large fraction of the cladding power may be absorbed. This configuration could be used where 1 the importance of output power and efficiency of the laser is primary 2 the quality of the laser output is secondary and or 3 where the cladding laser operates most efficiently with at least 10 of the cladding power being absorbed by the core.

The second embodiment II illustrates the case where a low cross sectional core to clad area ratio limits the transfer of cladding pump power to core. The core is much smaller e.g. less than 10 in cross sectional than of the first embodiment I. Here the core is illustrated as having a generally square shape however the cross sectional shape should not be thought of as limiting. This configuration may be used if the cladding laser operates best with a low less than 10 optical loss and or if design requires a small core for single or low order mode lasing of the core. For instance the low core to clad area ratio can be used in the case where the core is used as a waveguide of single mode radiation in which case the core could have a transverse dimension of about 10 20 m.

The third embodiment III shows another slab arrangement of the composite laser gain medium. This slab here includes cladding layers formed above and below the core only resembling a sandwich of layers of cladding core and cladding unlike the slab embodiments I and II in which the core is fully surrounded by cladding as viewed along its length. This configuration may be easier to construct due to the reduced number of bonded surfaces. However the output beam quality at lasing wavelength may be inferior to that of first embodiment I as a larger number of transverse lasing modes exist due to the larger refractive index contrast at the core air interface.

The fourth embodiment IV is a cylindrically symmetric arrangement of core and clad. This geometrical arrangement could be used for manufacture of a glass based fiber laser such as a large mode area LMA fiber laser. The same criteria as outlined above may be used for the choice of the core to clad ratio. For the case of a Tm clad Ho core fiber laser where the core is of diameter of 20 m the cladding is 200 m in diameter a 0.25 wt Tm doping of a silicate clad in combination with a 1 wt Ho doping of a silicate core could be used for efficient operation of the laser for example. Over a 200 mm long laser gain length a 0.25 wt doping of Tm results in near complete absorption of the 785 nm pump light for conversion into 2013 nm radiation. A 1 wt Ho doping of the core results in strong absorption of the 2013 nm laser radiation produced by the Tm clad laser over the 200 mm length given a 1 core to clad cross section area.

In general a slab e.g. embodiments I III and V of the composite laser gain medium may likely be superior from the point of view of thermal management to a cylindrical geometry e.g. embodiment IV as it may be formed into a ribbon like format to have a larger surface area to volume ratio than the cylindrical geometry enabling more efficient cooling if the surface of the gain medium is placed in contact with a cooling medium. The thermal management characteristics may be enhanced if the clad core dimensions are made to have a large width to height ratio ribbon like whereby heat extraction rates are maximized when the ribbon is placed in contact with a cool thermally conducting surface. If a core dimension is kept small e.g. in the low 10 s of m range output beam quality in that direction will be very good. A slab laser could be used for the power scaling of remote sensing and directed energy systems for a wide range of potential applications ranging from the weapons systems surgical lasers remote atmospheric sensing eye safe welding and high average power directed energy applications.

While slab and cylindrical geometrical configurations for the composite laser gain medium have been shown it will be appreciated that other geometrical configurations might also be possible in keeping with the scope of the invention.

Various optical configurations and methodologies may be used for controlling the output beam of the lasing core three of which are illustrated in . In a first method illustrated in the core is configured for use as a waveguide in which lasing of the core at the wavelength will substantially be confined within the core between optical coating provided on the end surfaces. This requires that the refractive index of the core be greater than the refractive index of the cladding. That is the difference in refractive index n n n 0. The required magnitude of n is determined by the desired beam quality M of the core waveguide and the transverse dimension of the core according to the formula M 4a NA M 4 a NA where a is the transverse dimension of the waveguide NA sqrt n n the numerical aperture of the core cladding and X the wavelength of light. For example for a 20 m core designed to waveguide 2 m light as a single mode M 1 n 0.00014 based on n 1.8 which is the refractive index of YAG For effective transfer of the lasing clad radiation to the core the ratio of the core to cladding area may be at least 4 for instance which implies a slab of about 100 microns on a side. It should be mentioned that under lasing operation the core region of the slab may be at a higher temperature than the cladding due to its distance from the cooling surface in contact with the gain surfaces. As the refractive index of glass and most crystals increases with temperature dn dt 0 n will be larger than under non operational laser conditions thereby increasing the NA and reducing the beam quality of the core emission. However if mode quality is of secondary importance the core and slab transverse dimensions may be scaled without limit. For the case when the refractive index of the core is slightly larger e.g. n 0.02 than the cladding light propagating in the composite gain medium is highly multi mode. Calculation of the fraction of light power which is located in the core is simply the ratio of the core to composite cross sectional area. For example for the instance where the core measures 400 m by 400 m and the composite gain element measures 1 mm by 2 mm the fraction of power residing in the core is about 8 .

The optical coatings form an optical resonator about the gain medium. The first coating may be an anti reflective coating e.g. 95 transmissive for the pump wavelength 790 nm while being coated for high reflectivity e.g. 99.5 at the Tm and Ho lasing wavelengths of 2 m and 2.1 m. The second coating may have a high reflectivity e.g. 99.5 at the Tm lasing wavelength of 2 m and may be optically coated for partial reflectivity e.g. 80 95 for the Ho lasing wavelength at 2.1 m.

Where a laser of beam quality Mof approximately 25 may be desired a Tm clad Ho core composite laser gain medium could measure 25 mm in length 5 mm in width and 1 mm in height with the Ho core dimension measuring 25 mm in length 0.4 mm in width and 0.4 mm in height. Based on a Tm YAG clad refractive index of n 0.001 with respect to the Ho YAG core waveguide NA 0.06 the number of transverse modes m in the height and width directions are m w NA 12 m h NA 12. As the Mvalue of a rectangular waveguide can be calculated as M 2 m 1 the laser will emit 2.1 m radiation with an M M 25. The wavelength range is determined by the stronger emission peaks of the Ho rare earth crystal host configuration. In the case of a Ho glass host configuration some tunability of the 2.1 m emission is possible. However the laser beam quality could worsen with increasingly numerical aperture and especially as the core dimensions surpass 10 20 times the wavelength .

In another method illustrated in an external concave mirror can be used whether the cladding is of equal or higher refractive index than the core. In this situation because some of the lasing of the cladding at the wavelength will inherently stray into the core between optical coatings the laser cavity mirror is used to make a stable optical cavity mode for . In this configuration first optical coating may be AR coated for the pump wavelength of 790 nm and HR coated for the wavelength range 2.0 2.1 m. The second optical surface may be AR coated for the wavelength range 2.0 2.1 m while optical surface of mirror may be HR coated for the Tm lasing wavelength of 2 m and partially reflective coated for the Ho lasing wavelength of 2.1 m The use of the external mirror allows for the generation of single mode laser mode output with a core of transverse dimensions in the 100 s of micrometers. A larger core allows for a larger core to cladding area ratio and a proportional increase in pump power of the core. As the external mirror is responsible for confinement of the core laser mode the refractive indices of the cladding and core may be of secondary importance.

In yet another method illustrated in a concave convex mirror pair A B placed external to the composite laser gain medium can also be used whether the cladding is of equal of higher refractive index that the core. Because some of the lasing of the cladding at the wavelength will inherently stray into the core between optical coatings in this situation the pair of mirrors A B is used to redirect stray light back into the core to maintain optical confinement. As shown the mirror pair includes the concave mirror A and the convex mirror B. Mirror B may be gradient mirror for instance. This configuration serves to build an unstable laser cavity for energy extraction from a large dimensioned core. The unstable laser cavity configuration also has the advantage of allowing for a large fraction of the cladding power to be absorbed while yielding good output beam quality.

The optical surface of the concave mirror A may be HR coated for the lasing wavelengths and and AR coated for the pumping wavelength while the convex mirror B may be optically coated at its center for the lasing wavelength and AR coated at outside the center. In this configuration both the first and second optical coatings and may be AR coated for the wavelength range 2.0 2.1 m. This configuration may allow for lasing of the core of transverse dimensions greater than a 1 mm in size while maintaining good output beam quality.

In one example the laser cavity includes a laser gain medium that uses a singly doped Tm cladding to pump a singly doped Ho core . A fraction of the Tm radiation is absorbed by the small and single moded Ho core . Here the light source could be configured to emit light having a wavelength of approximately 785 nm. The Tm Ho composite laser gain medium uses the 785 nm optical pumping of a Tm doped cladding to produce 2.0 m light through laser action.

More particularly the Tm doped cladding medium absorbs the optical pump source light and produces laser emission at 2.0 m resulting from laser oscillation between the high reflectivity optical coating at 2.0 m of the first coating and the mirror . As the 2.0 m radiation circulates in the laser cavity a fraction of the 2.0 m laser radiation is absorbed by the Ho doped core. Consequently the 2.0 m multimode radiation optically pumps the Ho doped core through a partial overlap of its numerous cladding modes with the Ho doped core. As the Ho doped gain medium absorbs the 2.0 m laser radiation it in turn emits radiation at 2.1 m which results in laser oscillation between the high reflectivity optical coating at 2.0 2.1 m of the first optical coating and the partially reflectively coated mirror . Because the mirror is concave single mode 2.1 m radiation is produced if the Fresnel number of the laser cavity is less than 1. If the Ho layer is narrow i.e. approximately 20 m in one dimension the 2.1 m radiation is of very good beam quality in the narrow transverse dimension.

The first and second optical coatings and may be optical coatings configured to substantially transmit light i.e. without significant reflection in the wavelength range 2.0 2.1 m. The first optical coating may be a highly reflective optical coating configured to substantially reflect light having a wavelength between about 2.0 2.1 m. However the first optical coating may be transparent to light of the first wavelength to permit light from the diode laser to enter the laser gain medium . The second optical coating may be a dichroic optical coating which is configured to be highly reflective to light having a wavelength of about 2.0 2.0 m and to be partially reflective to light having a wavelength of about 2.1 m. Depending on the dimensions of core to clad the partial reflective 2.1 m optical coating can range from about 85 to 99 .

A mirror may be located exterior to the second optical coating with coating designed to be AR coated for the wavelength range of 2.0 2.1 m. The mirror may be formed to reflect at a lasing wavelength of Tm of 2.0 m and partially reflective at the Ho lasing wavelength of 2.1 m. More particularly the first mirror may be a dichroic optical coating configured to be highly reflective and substantially reflect light having a wavelength of about 2.0 m and to be partially reflective to light having a wavelength of about 2.0 2.1 m.

If greater simplification of the embodiment of were required mirror could be eliminated by replacing the optical coating of coating with a high reflective coating at 2.0 m and partially reflective at 2.1 m. However unless the core is designed to be waveguiding refractive index of the core larger than the cladding with small transverse dimensions e.g. less than about 20 m single mode operation of the 2.1 m might not be assured.

While it is desirable to distribute the pump light as evenly as possible in some cases pumping the composite slab on one side only may be acceptable. The light source may be configured to output light having a wavelength of about 785 nm for instance which can be focused onto the composite laser gain medium by corresponding lenses . Efficient absorption of the pump light as collimated by lens will occur if the cladding doping concentration is sufficient such that absorption coefficient multiplied by the pumping transverse direction is 2 or greater.

In one example the composite laser gain medium may be formed of a thulium doped matrix such as YAG crystal or silicate glass and of holium doped core matrix such as YAG crystal or silicate glass that is optically pumped by at 790 nm by series of diode laser optical pump sources whose light is focused by lenses into the composite laser gain medium . The optical coating and the mirror forms an optical resonator about the composite laser gain medium.

The optical coating may be highly reflectivity e.g. 99.5 optically coated at the Tm and Ho lasing wavelength of 2 2.1 m. The other optical coating is AR coated e.g. 95 at the Tm and Ho lasing wavelengths of 2.0 2.1 m. The laser cavity mirror is optically coated to be transmissive e.g. 95 to optical pump of 790 nm and high reflective e.g. 99 to the lasing wavelength at 2.1 m. The laser cavity mirror is optically coated for partial reflectivity e.g. 80 95 for the Ho lasing wavelength at 2.1 m.

End pumping of the composite gain medium may be more advantageous than side pumping in some instances for example if only a single relatively low pump power source is available and the cladding measures 1 mm by mm or less. For applications where many hundreds of watts or more of 0.8 m pump power is required then side pumping may be preferable due to the ease of distributing the pump power more evenly over the composite gain body. If the mirror is not used the composite medium surfaces could be optically coated and configured to form a plane parallel confocal hemispherical or concave convex laser cavity.

The optical coating may be anti reflective e.g 95 transmissive for the pump wavelength. The optical coatings and may be reflective e.g 95 transmissive at the core lasing wavelength. Other coatings types are also possible for these elements.

The laser performance of a Tm Ho YAG laser has been calculated by the inventor. More particularly it is been calculated that a laser using a Tm 2 clad Ho 10 core composite laser gain medium of 25 mm in length and of Tm cross sectional dimensions of 1 mm by 2 mm with a Ho core of 400 m by 400 m will operate with a 40 optical to optical conversion efficiency conversion of 785 nm pump light to 2.1 m laser output using a 80 reflectivity outcoupler at the lasing wavelength of 2.1 m. Also the laser performance of a Tm Ho silca fiber laser has been calculated. It has been determined that a laser using a Tm 0.4 wt clad Ho 1.4 wt core composite laser gain medium of 25 mm in length and of Tm cross sectional dimensions of 0.5 mm by 0.5 mm with a Ho core of 150 m by 150 m will operate with a 30 optical to optical conversion efficiency conversion of 785 nm pump light to 2.1 m laser output using a 50 reflectivity outcoupler at the lasing wavelength of 2.1 m.

The term light as used herein refers to electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths in the infrared visible and or ultraviolet spectra. Some embodiments disclosed herein may use light in the infrared spectra with wavelengths ranging from about 700 nm to 1 m. However it should be appreciated that other embodiments may be capable of using various wavelengths of light.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

