---

title: Communications among users belonging to affiliations spanning multiple virtual spaces
abstract: Communications may be facilitated among users belonging to affiliations spanning two or more virtual spaces accessible via virtual environments. In exemplary implementations, affiliations within individual virtual spaces may be managed. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may comprise a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the given virtual space. A communications interface may be provided for presentation to individual users. The communications interface may be configured to enable a given user to observe in-coming communications and provide out-going communications. Synchronous and/or asynchronous communications may be facilitated via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations. The communications may be facilitated among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation, which may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450900&OS=09450900&RS=09450900
owner: KABAM, INC.
number: 09450900
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140922
---
This disclosure relates to facilitating communications among users belonging to affiliations spanning multiple virtual spaces.

Systems exist for forming and or recognizing affiliations between users of virtual spaces e.g. video games or other virtual spaces . An affiliation may include an alliance guild cohort and or other affiliation with a discrete group of users. Typically however existing approaches involve affiliations limited to a single virtual space. Existing systems generally lack integrated communication capabilities between users belonging to the same affiliations in different virtual spaces.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to facilitate communications among users belonging to affiliations spanning two or more virtual spaces accessible via virtual environments in accordance with one or more implementations. In exemplary implementations a group of users may belong to an affiliation within a first virtual space. For example the group of users may belong to an alliance within a social network game played in a social network virtual environment. The same affiliation may be transported to other virtual spaces such that the same group of users are affiliated in more that one virtual space. The affiliations in different virtual spaces which include substantially the same group of users may be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. Synchronous and or asynchronous communications may be facilitated via a communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations. In some implementations the communications may be facilitated among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. In some implementations the system may include one or more of at least one virtual environment server at least one virtual space server and or other components.

The virtual environment server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a user module an environment module an interaction module a relationship module and or other modules. The user module may be configured to access and or manage one or more user profiles and or user information associated with users of the system.

The environment module may be configured to provide one or more virtual environments to users via the client computing platforms. As used herein a virtual environment may include one or more interactive electronic social media and or other virtual environments. Interactive electronic social media may include one or more of a social network a virtual space a micro blogging service a blog service or host a messaging service a message board a forum and or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users.

The interaction module may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual environment and or each other within the virtual environment. This may include monitoring for a given user one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual environment areas of the virtual environment the given user views or interacts with or in other users the given user interacts with the nature and or content of interactions of the given user with other users activities participated in within the virtual environment level powers or skill attained in the virtual environment inventory items obtained in the virtual environment and or other interactions of the given user with the virtual environment and or other users.

At a given time interaction module may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual environment and or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual environment. Being engaged with the virtual environment may refer to being logged in to the virtual environment performing some action or interaction within the virtual environment within some period of time e.g. the last 2 minutes and or other taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual environment.

The relationship module may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual environment. Such relationships may include one or more of friendships connections followers social links and or other relationships. The relationship module may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual environment and or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual environment that does not have a functional result.

The virtual space server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a space module a space account module a group module an overarching group module a communication interface module a synchronous communications module an affiliate status module an asynchronous communications module a privileges module an alert module a broadcast module and or other modules.

The space module may be configured to provide one or more virtual spaces to users via client computing platforms. As used herein a virtual space may include one or more social network games and or other virtual spaces. A virtual space may be provided via a virtual environment provided by the environment module of the virtual environment server. For example a user may be required to be engaged in a virtual environment in order to engage in a virtual space. According to various implementations one or more instances of a single given virtual space may be provided via one or more different virtual environments.

The space module may determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated e.g. via streaming via object position data and or other information from the virtual space server to the client computing platforms for presentation to users. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space e.g. the location from which the view is taken the location the view depicts and or other locations a zoom ratio a dimensionality of objects a point of view and or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.

An instance of a virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. the client computing platforms that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances the topography may be a 2 dimensional topography. In other instances the topography may be a 3 dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space and or surface features of a surface or objects that are native to the space. In some instances the topography may describe a surface e.g. a ground surface that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein e.g. a simulation of gravity deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein . The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous asynchronous and or semi synchronous.

Within the instance s of a virtual space executed by the space module users may control characters objects simulated physical phenomena e.g. wind rain earthquakes and or other phenomena and or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein the term user character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element s may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non user characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space . The user controlled elements controlled by and or associated with a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The user may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element and or other items within the virtual space.

The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and or commands input by the users through the client computing platforms. The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat instant messages private messages voice communications and or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms. Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through the virtual space server and or the virtual environment server. Within the virtual space users may participate in a game. The game may be an activity within the space e.g. a virtual card or board game within the space or the game may actually be the space e.g. an online role playing game massively multiplayer online game a social online game and or other games .

The space account module may be configured to manage accounts associated with the individual users for individual virtual spaces. The accounts may include user information associated with the individual users. Such user information may include one or more of identification information inventory information financial information relationship information information related to the users determined by one or more other modules demographic information usage information past purchase history and or other information related to the users. The identification information may include one or more of a username an avatar name a real world identification and or other identification information. The inventory information may identify virtual objects virtual currency and or other assets available to the users. The virtual objects and or virtual currency available to a given user may include the virtual objects and or the virtual currency that is under the control of the given user within the virtual space. The financial information may include payment information such as an account identification that identifies an account that can be used by the user to purchase virtual goods and or virtual currency for use within the virtual space. The funds available in the account may include real world money or funds virtual money or funds that are not usable within the virtual space and or other funds.

The group module may be configured to a group module configured to establish and or manage affiliations within individual virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users. For example a first affiliation within a first virtual space may include a first user a second user and or a discrete set of other users. Examples of an affiliation may include an alliance a guild a faction a club an association a group a crew a band a clan a family fellowship a gang a league a partnership a syndicate a society a tribe a troop a company and or other affiliations that include a discrete group of individuals.

The group module may establish affiliations based on affiliation requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of an affiliation may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting an affiliation between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of an affiliation may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. According to some implementations the group module may establish affiliations intrinsically within the virtual space e.g. faction mates are formed based on avatar configuration through recognized user behavior over time e.g. raid members or player versus player partners and or other approaches for establishing affiliations.

Users belonging to an affiliation may have relationships with some or no functional significance purpose and or impact within a given virtual space. Such relationships within the affiliation may include a leadership structure a role structure and or other relationships within the affiliation. The functional significance of a relationship between users may vary across different virtual spaces. For example a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may have a different functional significance than a relationship between the first user and the second user in a second affiliation in a second virtual space. By way of non limiting example of the functional significance of an affiliation within an exemplary virtual space affiliates within a virtual space may have certain capabilities among each other that are not available to non affiliates such as sharing and or trading goods services player characters and or items in the virtual space and or other capabilities among users belonging to an affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to determine one or more overarching affiliations. An overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. By way of non limiting example a given overarching affiliation may encompass an affiliation in one virtual space e.g. a team and an affiliation in another virtual space e.g. a gang where the two affiliations include substantially the same group of users. A given overarching affiliation may facilitate one or more of a cooperative attack a cooperative defense resource trading troupe enforcements and or other actions carried out by a group in individual virtual spaces by individual users belonging to the given overarching affiliation. The group module may be configured to automatically include a given user belonging to a given overarching affiliation in individual affiliations encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. A given user may be enabled to opt in or opt out of being automatically included in individual affiliations encompassed by an overarching affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to link affiliations from different virtual spaces to yield an overarching affiliation. Such linking may be performed automatically manually and or by a combination of automatic and manual operations. In some implementations the overarching group module may monitor affiliations in two or more virtual spaces to determine affiliations including substantially the same group of users for inclusion in an overarching affiliation. A user belonging to affiliations in different virtual spaces may manually link the affiliations so as to be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations responsive to a first user joining a first affiliation in a first virtual space the first user may be presented with an option to join one or more other affiliations in other virtual spaces that are encompassed by the same overarching affiliation as the first affiliation. Such an option may be presented even if the first user has not engaged one or more of the other virtual spaces according to some implementations.

The communication interface module may be configured to provide a communications interface for presentation to individual users. The communications interface may be presented to given user via a client computing platform associated with that user. The communications interface may be configured to enable a given user to observe in coming communications and provide out going communications. According to some implementations the communications interface may be presented within a virtual space provided by the virtual space server. The communications interface may be presented within a virtual environment provided by the virtual environment server. In some implementations the communications interface may be presented outside of a virtual space and outside of a virtual environment. For example the communications interface may be presented via a webpage that includes neither a virtual space nor a virtual environment. As another example the communications interface may be provided via a mobile application on a mobile implementation of a client computing platform.

The synchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate synchronous communications via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations. The synchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate synchronous communications among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. By way of non limiting example synchronous communications may include one or more of text based instant messaging IM and or chat live voice and or video communications other forms of real time direct communications and or other synchronous communications. The synchronous communications may be channeled across multiple virtual spaces and or multiple environments. For example in some implementations the first user and the second user are enabled to exchange synchronous communications while the first user is engaged in the first virtual space and the second user is engaged in a second virtual space. Two or more users may engage in a single synchronous communications session. In some implementations synchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate file transfers between users. The synchronous communications module may utilize leverage and or otherwise interface with third party synchronous communications services e.g. Facebook chat Google chat ICQ and or other services in accordance with some implementations.

The affiliate status module may be configured to provide an indication via the communications interface of whether one or more users belonging to individual ones of the common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations are available to exchange synchronous communications. According to various implementations a given user may be available if the user is engaged in a specific virtual space is engaged in a specific virtual environment has checked or logged into the communication interface has provided an indication that the given user is available and or is otherwise declared as being available to exchange synchronous communications. The indication may indicate which virtual space and or virtual environment the given user is currently engaged in. Indications provided by the affiliate status module may be presented by one or more of a textual indication a visual indicate and or another indication. In some implementations indications provided by the affiliate status module may be presented as an affiliate list showing a number of users belonging to one or more common affiliations and or one or more common overarching affiliations along with their respective availabilities.

The asynchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate asynchronous communications via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations. The asynchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate asynchronous communications among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. By way of non limiting example asynchronous communications may include one or more of emails communications based on a store and forward model and or other asynchronous communications. The asynchronous communications module may be configured to accept forward deliver and or store asynchronous communications. The asynchronous communications module may utilize leverage and or otherwise interface with an asynchronous communications server not depicted to facilitate asynchronous communications. The asynchronous communications may by conveyed whether or not a receiving party is engaged in a virtual space or virtual environment. For example the first user may be enabled to send the second user asynchronous communications regardless of whether the second user is engaged in a virtual space or a virtual environment.

The asynchronous communications module may be configured to manage inboxes associated with individual users. For example a first inbox may be associated with the first user such that the first inbox is configured to contain an asynchronous communication sent by the second user to the first user. The inboxes may be presented via the communications interface. A given inbox may have multiple instantiations in different virtual spaces and or virtual environments. In some implementations a user may access the user s inbox via a mobile application on a mobile implementation of a client computing platform. In some implementations two or more asynchronous communications contained by a given inbox may be organized within the given inbox based on individual affiliations associated with the asynchronous communications contained by the given inbox. For example one or more asynchronous communications associated with the first virtual space may be collocated in a list or file while one or more asynchronous communications associated with the second virtual space may be collocated separately from the ones associated with the first virtual space.

The privileges module may be configured to manage privileges associated with individual users based on statuses attributed to the individual users. Examples of such statuses may include statuses associated with one or more of progress within a virtual space time spent engaging in a virtual space and or virtual environment a date on which a user joined an affiliation and or overarching affiliation a leadership and or other role within a virtual space affiliation and or overarching affiliation and or other statuses attributable to users. By way of non limiting example privileges may include being able to preview approve and or edit communications of other users having communications sent by a privileged user appear visually different from unprivileged users being able to preview approve and or edit alerts discussed in further detail in connection with the alert module having enhanced broadcast rights discussed further in connection with the broadcast module and or other privileges associable to users. As a non limiting illustration the first user may be enabled to edit asynchronous communications of one or more other users belonging to the first affiliation responsive to a first privilege being associated with the first user and the first privilege being unassociated with the one or more other users belonging to the first affiliation. As another illustration communications from the first user may be visibly distinct in the communications interface from communications from one or more other users responsive to a second privilege being associated with the first user and the second privilege being unassociated with the one or more other users belonging to the first affiliation.

The privileges module may be configured to provide a privileged communications interface which may be included in or separate from the communications interface provided by the communication interface module. The privileged communications interface may enable a given privileged user to preview and or edit communications sent by unprivileged users.

The alert module may be configured to distribute alerts via the communications interface to individual users belonging to the one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. Individual ones of the alerts may be distributed responsive to one or more predetermined events occurring within one or more virtual spaces associated with the one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. By way of illustration an alert may be sent to all members of a given overarching affiliation responsive to a battle situation within a virtual space encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. The alerts may be distributed regardless of whether the individual users belonging to the one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations are engaged in the one or more virtual spaces associated therewith. In some implementations different forms of a given alert may be distributed to different users according to different privileges associated with those users. For example a first alert sent to a user associated with a privilege may contain different information relative to the first alert sent to a user unassociated with the privilege.

The alerts may be presented in various manners. The alerts may be presented to users via the communications interface provided by the communication interface module. The alerts may be presented as synchronous communications asynchronous communications and or other types of communications. The alert module may be configured to provide an alerts interface which may be included in or separate from the communications interface provided by the communication interface module. The alerts interface may enable a given user to observe in coming alerts.

The broadcast module may be configured to enable one or more individual users to transmit a broadcast communication to two or more other users belonging to a common affiliation and or common overarching affiliation. A broadcast communication may include a broadcast communication one or both of a synchronous communication or an asynchronous communication. The broadcast module may be configured to transmit a broadcast communication regardless of whether individual recipient users are engaged in a virtual space and or virtual environment. In some implementations a privileged user may be enabled to preview approve and or edit broadcast communications prior to the broadcast communications being delivered to other users.

The broadcast module may be configured to provide a broadcast communications interface which may be included in or separate from the communications interface provided by the communication interface module. The broadcast communications interface may enable a given user to observe in coming broadcast communications and or provide out going broadcast communications.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In some implementations system may include one or more of at least one virtual environment server at least one virtual space server and or other components. The virtual environment server and or virtual space server may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms according to a client server architecture to provide the virtual environment and or the virtual space to users via client computing platforms . The virtual space server may be configured to interface with virtual environment server to supplement the functionality provided to the users with respect to the virtual environment and or the virtual space. For example virtual space server may interface with virtual environment server via one or more application programming interfaces.

The virtual environment server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a user module an environment module an interaction module a relationship module and or other modules.

The user module may be configured to access and or manage one or more user profiles and or user information associated with users of system . The one or more user profiles and or user information may include information stored by virtual environment server virtual space server one or more of the client computing platforms and or other storage locations. The user profiles may include for example information identifying users e.g. a username or handle a number an identifier and or other identifying information within the virtual environment security login information e.g. a login code or password virtual environment account information subscription information virtual currency account information e.g. related to currency held in credit for a user relationship information e.g. information related to relationships between users in the virtual environment virtual environment usage information demographic information associated with users interaction history among users in the virtual environment information stated by users purchase information of users browsing history of users a client computing platform identification associated with a user a phone number associated with a user and or other information related to users.

The environment module may be configured to provide one or more virtual environments to users via client computing platforms . As used herein a virtual environment may include one or more interactive electronic social media and or other virtual environments. Interactive electronic social media may include one or more of a social network a virtual space a micro blogging service a blog service or host a messaging service a message board a forum and or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users. Some non limiting specific examples of interactive electronic social media may include the social network provided by Facebook the social network provided by MySpace the social network provided by Google the social network provided by Qzone the social network provided by Foursquare the micro blogging service provided by Twitter the virtual world provided by SecondLife the massively multi player online game provided by World of Warcraft the file sharing service provided by Flickr Blogger YouTube PlayStation Home Xbox Live and or other interactive electronic social media.

The interaction module may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual environment and or each other within the virtual environment. This may include monitoring for a given user one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual environment areas of the virtual environment the given user views or interacts with or in other users the given user interacts with the nature and or content of interactions of the given user with other users activities participated in within the virtual environment level powers or skill attained in the virtual environment inventory items obtained in the virtual environment and or other interactions of the given user with the virtual environment and or other users. Some or all of the information generated by interaction module in monitoring the interactions of the users may be stored to the user profiles managed by user module .

At a given time interaction module may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual environment and or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual environment. Being engaged with the virtual environment may refer to being logged in to the virtual environment performing some action or interaction within the virtual environment within some period of time e.g. the last 2 minutes and or other taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual environment.

The relationship module may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual environment. Such relationships may include one or more of friendships connections followers social links and or other relationships. The relationship module may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of a relationship may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting a relationship between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of a relationship may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual environment and or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual environment that does not have a functional result.

The virtual space server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a space module a space account module a group module an overarching group module a communication interface module a synchronous communications module an affiliate status module an asynchronous communications module a privileges module an alert module a broadcast module and or other modules.

The space module may be configured to provide one or more virtual spaces to users via client computing platforms . As used herein a virtual space may include one or more social network games and or other virtual spaces. A virtual space may be provided via a virtual environment provided by environment module of virtual environment server . For example a user may be required to be engaged in a virtual environment in order to engage in a virtual space. According to various implementations one or more instances of a single given virtual space may be provided via one or more different virtual environments.

The space module may determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated e.g. via streaming via object position data and or other information from virtual space server to client computing platforms for presentation to users. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform . The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space e.g. the location from which the view is taken the location the view depicts and or other locations a zoom ratio a dimensionality of objects a point of view and or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.

An instance of a virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. client computing platforms that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances the topography may be a 2 dimensional topography. In other instances the topography may be a 3 dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space and or surface features of a surface or objects that are native to the space. In some instances the topography may describe a surface e.g. a ground surface that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein e.g. a simulation of gravity deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein . The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous asynchronous and or semi synchronous.

The above description of the manner in which views of virtual spaces are determined by space module is not intended to be limiting. The space module may be configured to express the virtual space in a more limited or more rich manner. For example views determined for the virtual space may be selected from a limited set of graphics depicting an event in a given place within the virtual space. The views may include additional content e.g. text audio pre stored video content and or other content that describes particulars of the current state of the place beyond the relatively generic graphics. For example a view may include a generic battle graphic with a textual description of the opponents to be confronted. Other expressions of individual places within the virtual space are contemplated.

Within the instance s of a virtual space executed by space module users may control characters objects simulated physical phenomena e.g. wind rain earthquakes and or other phenomena and or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein the term user character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element s may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non user characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space . The user controlled elements controlled by and or associated with a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The user may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element and or other items within the virtual space.

The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and or commands input by the users through client computing platforms . The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat instant messages private messages voice communications and or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms . Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through virtual space server and or virtual environment server . Within the virtual space users may participate in a game. The game may be an activity within the space e.g. a virtual card or board game within the space or the game may actually be the space e.g. an online role playing game massively multiplayer online game a social online game and or other games .

The space account module may be configured to manage accounts associated with the individual users for individual virtual spaces. The accounts may include user information associated with the individual users. Such user information may include one or more of identification information inventory information financial information relationship information information related to the users determined by one or more of the other modules and or demographic information usage information past purchase history and or other information related to the users. The identification information may include one or more of a username an avatar name a real world identification and or other identification information. The inventory information may identify virtual objects virtual currency and or other assets available to the users. The virtual objects and or virtual currency available to a given user may include the virtual objects and or the virtual currency that is under the control of the given user within the virtual space. The financial information may include payment information such as an account identification that identifies an account that can be used by the user to purchase virtual goods and or virtual currency for use within the virtual space. The funds available in the account may include real world money or funds virtual money or funds that are not usable within the virtual space and or other funds.

The group module may be configured to a group module configured to establish and or manage affiliations within individual virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users. For example a first affiliation within a first virtual space may include a first user a second user and or a discrete set of other users. Examples of an affiliation may include an alliance a guild a faction a club an association a group a crew a band a clan a family fellowship a gang a league a partnership a syndicate a society a tribe a troop a company and or other affiliations that include a discrete group of individuals.

The group module may establish affiliations based on affiliation requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of an affiliation may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting an affiliation between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of an affiliation may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. According to some implementations group module may establish affiliations intrinsically within the virtual space e.g. faction mates are formed based on avatar configuration through recognized user behavior over time e.g. raid members or player versus player partners and or other approaches for establishing affiliations.

Users belonging to an affiliation may have relationships with some or no functional significance purpose and or impact within a given virtual space. Such relationships within the affiliation may include a leadership structure a role structure and or other relationships within the affiliation. The functional significance of a relationship between users may vary across different virtual spaces. For example a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may have a different functional significance than a relationship between the first user and the second user in a second affiliation in a second virtual space. By way of non limiting example of the functional significance of an affiliation within an exemplary virtual space affiliates within a virtual space may have certain capabilities among each other that are not available to non affiliates such as sharing and or trading goods services player characters and or items in the virtual space and or other capabilities among users belonging to an affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to determine and or manage one or more overarching affiliations. An overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. By way of non limiting example a given overarching affiliation may encompass an affiliation in one virtual space e.g. a team and an affiliation in another virtual space e.g. a gang where the two affiliations include substantially the same group of users. A given overarching affiliation may facilitate one or more of a cooperative attack a cooperative defense resource trading troupe enforcements and or other actions carried out by a group in individual virtual spaces by individual users belonging to the given overarching affiliation. The group module may be configured to automatically include a given user belonging to a given overarching affiliation in individual affiliations encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. A given user may be enabled to opt in or opt out of being automatically included in individual affiliations encompassed by an overarching affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to link affiliations from different virtual spaces to yield an overarching affiliation. Such linking may be performed automatically manually and or by a combination of automatic and manual operations. In some implementations overarching group module may monitor affiliations in two or more virtual spaces to determine affiliations including substantially the same group of users for inclusion in an overarching affiliation. A user belonging to affiliations in different virtual spaces may manually link the affiliations so as to be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations responsive to a first user joining a first affiliation in a first virtual space the first user may be presented with an option to join one or more other affiliations in other virtual spaces that are encompassed by the same overarching affiliation as the first affiliation. Such an option may be presented even if the first user has not engaged one or more of the other virtual spaces according to some implementations.

The communication interface module may be configured to provide a communications interface for presentation to individual users. The communications interface may be presented to given user via a client computing platform associated with that user. The communications interface may be configured to enable a given user to observe in coming communications and provide out going communications. According to some implementations the communications interface may be presented within a virtual space provided by virtual space server . The communications interface may be presented within a virtual environment provided by virtual environment server . In some implementations the communications interface may be presented outside of a virtual space and outside of a virtual environment. For example the communications interface may be presented via a webpage that includes neither a virtual space nor a virtual environment. As another example the communications interface may be provided via a mobile application on a mobile implementation of a client computing platform . Non limiting and exemplary implementations of the communications interface are described in connection with .

The synchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate synchronous communications via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations. The synchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate synchronous communications among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. By way of non limiting example synchronous communications may include one or more of text based instant messaging IM and or chat live voice and or video communications other forms of real time direct communications and or other synchronous communications. The synchronous communications may be channeled across multiple virtual spaces and or multiple environments. For example in some implementations the first user and the second user are enabled to exchange synchronous communications while the first user is engaged in the first virtual space and the second user is engaged in a second virtual space. Two or more users may engage in a single synchronous communications session. In some implementations synchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate file transfers between users. The synchronous communications module may utilize leverage and or otherwise interface with third party synchronous communications services e.g. Facebook chat Google chat ICQ and or other services in accordance with some implementations.

The affiliate status module may be configured to provide an indication via the communications interface of whether one or more users belonging to individual ones of the common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations are available to exchange synchronous communications. According to various implementations a given user may be available if the user is engaged in a specific virtual space is engaged in a specific virtual environment has checked or logged into the communication interface has provided an indication that the given user is available and or is otherwise declared as being available to exchange synchronous communications. The indication may indicate which virtual space and or virtual environment the given user is currently engaged in. Indications provided by affiliate status module may be presented by one or more of a textual indication a visual indicate and or another indication. In some implementations indications provided by affiliate status module may be presented as an affiliate list showing a number of users belonging to one or more common affiliations and or one or more common overarching affiliations along with their respective availabilities.

The asynchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate asynchronous communications via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations. The asynchronous communications module may be configured to facilitate asynchronous communications among users belonging to a common overarching affiliation. By way of non limiting example asynchronous communications may include one or more of emails communications based on a store and forward model and or other asynchronous communications. The asynchronous communications module may be configured to accept forward deliver and or store asynchronous communications. The asynchronous communications module may utilize leverage and or otherwise interface with an asynchronous communications server not depicted to facilitate asynchronous communications. The asynchronous communications may by conveyed whether or not a receiving party is engaged in a virtual space or virtual environment. For example the first user may be enabled to send the second user asynchronous communications regardless of whether the second user is engaged in a virtual space or a virtual environment.

The asynchronous communications module may be configured to manage inboxes associated with individual users. For example a first inbox may be associated with the first user such that the first inbox is configured to contain an asynchronous communication sent by the second user to the first user. The inboxes may be presented via the communications interface. A given inbox may have multiple instantiations in different virtual spaces and or virtual environments. In some implementations a user may access the user s inbox via a mobile application on a mobile implementation of a client computing platform . In some implementations two or more asynchronous communications contained by a given inbox may be organized within the given inbox based on individual affiliations associated with the asynchronous communications contained by the given inbox. For example one or more asynchronous communications associated with the first virtual space may be collocated in a list or file while one or more asynchronous communications associated with the second virtual space may be collocated separately from the ones associated with the first virtual space.

The privileges module may be configured to manage privileges associated with individual users based on statuses attributed to the individual users. Examples of such statuses may include statuses associated with one or more of progress within a virtual space time spent engaging in a virtual space and or virtual environment a date on which a user joined an affiliation and or overarching affiliation a leadership and or other role within a virtual space affiliation and or overarching affiliation and or other statuses attributable to users. By way of non limiting example privileges may include being able to preview approve and or edit communications of other users having communications sent by a privileged user appear visually different from unprivileged users being able to preview approve and or edit alerts discussed in further detail in connection with alert module having enhanced broadcast rights discussed further in connection with broadcast module and or other privileges associable to users. As a non limiting illustration the first user may be enabled to edit asynchronous communications of one or more other users belonging to the first affiliation responsive to a first privilege being associated with the first user and the first privilege being unassociated with the one or more other users belonging to the first affiliation. As another illustration communications from the first user may be visibly distinct in the communications interface from communications from one or more other users responsive to a second privilege being associated with the first user and the second privilege being unassociated with the one or more other users belonging to the first affiliation.

The privileges module may be configured to provide a privileged communications interface which may be included in or separate from the communications interface provided by communication interface module . The privileged communications interface may enable a given privileged user to preview and or edit communications sent by unprivileged users. Non limiting and exemplary implementations of the privileged communications interface are described in connection with .

The alert module may be configured to distribute alerts via the communications interface to individual users belonging to the one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. Individual ones of the alerts may be distributed responsive to one or more predetermined events occurring within one or more virtual spaces associated with the one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. By way of illustration an alert may be sent to all members of a given overarching affiliation responsive to a battle situation within a virtual space encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. The alerts may be distributed regardless of whether the individual users belonging to the one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations are engaged in the one or more virtual spaces associated therewith. In some implementations different forms of a given alert may be distributed to different users according to different privileges associated with those users. For example a first alert sent to a user associated with a privilege may contain different information relative to the first alert sent to a user unassociated with the privilege.

The alerts may be presented in various manners. The alerts may be presented to users via the communications interface provided by the communication interface module . The alerts may be presented as synchronous communications asynchronous communications and or other types of communications. The alert module may be configured to provide an alerts interface which may be included in or separate from the communications interface provided by communication interface module . The alerts interface may enable a given user to observe in coming alerts. Non limiting and exemplary implementations of the alerts interface are described in connection with .

The broadcast module may be configured to enable one or more individual users to transmit a broadcast communication to two or more other users belonging to a common affiliation and or common overarching affiliation. A broadcast communication may include a broadcast communication one or both of a synchronous communication or an asynchronous communication. The broadcast module may be configured to transmit a broadcast communication regardless of whether individual recipient users are engaged in a virtual space and or virtual environment. In some implementations a privileged user may be enabled to preview approve and or edit broadcast communications prior to the broadcast communications being delivered to other users.

The broadcast module may be configured to provide a broadcast communications interface which may be included in or separate from the communications interface provided by communication interface module . The broadcast communications interface may enable a given user to observe in coming broadcast communications and or provide out going broadcast communications. Non limiting and exemplary implementations of the broadcast communications interface are described in connection with .

In some implementations virtual environment server virtual space server client computing platforms one or more external resources and or other components of system may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example such electronic communication links may be established at least in part via a network such as the Internet and or other networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which virtual environment server virtual space server client computing platforms external resources and or other components of system may be operatively linked via some other communication media.

The virtual environment server may comprise electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The virtual environment server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. The processors may be configured to execute computer program modules. The processors may be configured to execute the computer program modules via one or more of hardware software and or firmware. The computer program modules may include user module environment module interaction module relationship module and or other computer program modules. Although system may be described in certain sections herein as including virtual environment server this is not intended to be limiting. The virtual environment server may be separate and distinct from system and may be provided by an entity that is separate from for example the entity providing virtual space server . In some implementations the functionality attributed herein to virtual environment server may be provided by virtual space server .

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules may be configured to enable an expert or user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with virtual environment server virtual space server and or other components of system and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platforms . By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

The external resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of virtual environments and or virtual spaces outside of system external entities participating with system and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

The virtual space server may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The virtual space server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of virtual space server in is not intended to be limiting. The virtual space server may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to virtual space server . For example virtual space server may be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as virtual space server .

Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with virtual space server and or removable storage that is removably connectable to virtual space server via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor information received from virtual environment server information received from client computing platforms and or other information that enables virtual space server to function as described herein.

Processor s is configured to provide information processing capabilities in virtual space server . As such processor may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor may be configured to execute space module space account module group module overarching group module communication interface module synchronous communications module affiliate status module asynchronous communications module privileges module alert module broadcast module and or other computer program modules. Processor may be configured to execute modules and or other modules by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although modules and are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor includes multiple processing units one or more of modules and or may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules and or described below is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules and or . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of modules and or .

The synchronous communications field may be configured to present synchronous communications between users belonging to one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. As depicted in synchronous communications field may include one or more of synchronous communications associated with a first affiliation in a first virtual space synchronous communications associated with a second affiliation in a second virtual space broadcast communications associated with an overarching affiliation that encompasses the first and second affiliations alerts associated with the overarching affiliation a synchronous communication entry field and or other elements. The synchronous communication entry field may be configured to enable a user to enter out going synchronous communications to one or more other users. In some implementations synchronous communications may be grouped and or otherwise organized based on an individual affiliation associated therewith. The synchronous communications field may be facilitated and or provided by a synchronous communications module that is the same or similar to synchronous communications module in accordance with one or more implementations.

The affiliate status field may be configured to provide an indication of whether one or more users belonging to individual ones of the common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations are available to exchange synchronous communications. As depicted in affiliate status field may include status indication showing that user is available and status indication showing that user is unavailable. The affiliate status field may be provided by an affiliate status module that is the same or similar to affiliate status module in accordance with one or more implementations.

The asynchronous communications field may be configured to present asynchronous communications between users belonging to one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. As depicted in asynchronous communications field may include one or more of asynchronous communications associated with a first affiliation in a first virtual space asynchronous communications associated with a second affiliation in a second virtual space broadcast communications associated with an overarching affiliation that encompasses the first and second affiliations alerts associated with the overarching affiliation an asynchronous communication entry field and or other elements. The asynchronous communication entry field may be configured to enable a user to enter out going synchronous communications to one or more other users. In some implementations asynchronous communications may be grouped and or otherwise organized based on an individual affiliation associated therewith. The asynchronous communications field may be facilitated and or provided by an asynchronous communications module that is the same or similar to asynchronous communications module in accordance with one or more implementations.

The asynchronous communications field may include an inbox configured to contain and or organize asynchronous communications. In some implementations two or more asynchronous communications contained by inbox may be organized based on individual affiliations associated with the asynchronous communications contained by inbox . For example one or more asynchronous communications associated with the first virtual space may be collocated in a list or file while one or more asynchronous communications associated with the second virtual space may be collocated separately from the ones associated with the first virtual space.

The alerts interface may be configured to enable a given user to observe one or more in coming alerts . The alerts interface may be provided by an alert module that is the same or similar to alert module in accordance with one or more implementations.

The broadcast communications interface may be configured to enable a given user to observe in coming broadcast communications and or provide out going broadcast communications. As depicted in broadcast communications interface may include a broadcast communications field configured to present in coming broadcast communications a broadcast communication entry field configured to enable a user to provide out going broadcast communications and or other elements. The broadcast communications interface may be provided by a broadcast module that is the same or similar to broadcast module in accordance with one or more implementations.

The privileged communications interface may be configured to enable a given privileged user to preview and or edit communications sent by unprivileged users. As depicted in privileged communications interface may include a communication preview field configured to present communications provided by unprivileged users prior to delivery a communication editing field configured to enable editing of communications provided by unprivileged users prior to delivery. The privileged communications interface may be provided by a privileges module that is the same or similar to privileges module in accordance with one or more implementations.

In some implementations method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation affiliations within individual ones of the two or more virtual spaces may be managed. The affiliations may comprise a first affiliation within a first virtual space between a group of users including a first user and a second user. Operation may be performed by a group module that is the same or similar to group module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation one or more overarching affiliations may be managed. Individual ones of the overarching affiliations may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. Operation may be performed by an overarching group module that is the same or similar to overarching group module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation a communications interface may be provided for presentation to individual users. The communications interface may be configured to enable a given user to observe in coming communications and provide out going communications. Operation may be performed by a communication interface module that is the same or similar to communication interface module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation synchronous communications may be facilitated via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. In some implementations the first user and the second user may be enabled to exchange synchronous communications while the first user is engaged in the first virtual space and the second user is engaged in a second virtual space. Operation may be performed by a synchronous communications module that is the same or similar to synchronous communications module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation asynchronous communications may be facilitated via the communications interface between users belonging to one or more common affiliations and or common overarching affiliations. In some implementations the first user may be enabled to send the second user asynchronous communications regardless of whether the second user is engaged in a virtual space or a virtual environment. Operation may be performed by an asynchronous communications module that is the same or similar to asynchronous communications module in accordance with one or more implementation.

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

