---

title: Client-side spam detection and prevention
abstract: Systems and methods for detecting and preventing spam content attempted to be sent from a sender account may be provided. In an embodiment, a system can determine if a user's electronic service has been compromised based on analyzing electronic messages attempted to be sent by the electronic service. For example, the system can calculate a score for the electronic messages utilizing a spam detection algorithm where the score represents the probability that the message contains spam content. The system can prevent the communication of electronic messages upon a determination that the electronic service has been compromised. The system can request authentication information from the user before further communication is allowed from the compromised electronic service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264418&OS=09264418&RS=09264418
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09264418
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140220
---
Today communicating with individuals all over the world has never been easier. Networking technology has allowed people to communicate with one another through email instant messaging or various social networking sites. However despite the many advantages this technology has granted to individuals security and other concerns remain. With the current free flow of electronic information people are more likely to divulge and share their personal information including bank account information or social security information. Malicious programs or outside parties may utilize a variety of methods to attempt to gain access to an individual s information that is stored or communicated electronically. Once an individual s information has been compromised the potential security threat can harm the individual and or others by proliferating messages or content which are unwanted or harmful. Spam content can not only be annoying to the recipients but can also be cause for concern as the recipients may be anxious about their own information security status.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things a system for detecting and preventing communication of spam content from the perspective of the client. In particular the system can detect that an individual s electronic service has been compromised by an outside party and prevent further communication of messages from the electronic service until further security steps are taken. For example an electronic message of a participating user e.g. a user who is participating in the spam detection and prevention service may be analyzed prior to sending the electronic message in order to detect whether the message contains spam content. Additionally other messages being sent within a given time window of the electronic message may be analyzed to detect spam content. In accordance with at least one embodiment a service may determine based on the analysis of the first electronic message and one or more temporally associated electronic messages that the electronic service associated with the messages has been infiltrated by an outside party. Upon the determination that the user s electronic service has been compromised the service may prevent the communication of messages until the user is authenticated. In accordance with at least one embodiment once the user is authenticated the service may allow the communication of the messages. As used herein the phrase compromised by an outside party may refer to a situation involving a third party gaining access to a user s electronic service or messaging service with malicious intent including the proliferation of spam and the gathering of sensitive user information.

In a non limiting example a participating user s email account may be compromised by an outside party e.g. by a virus or an entity other than the user . The user s email account may attempt to send a plurality of email s which potentially contain spam content to people in the user s email address book. Prior to sending any of the suspect emails the service may analyze the content of the emails to assign a score to the emails. The score may represent the probability that the emails contain spam content or are otherwise not authorized by the user. The same process may be performed on all or a subset of the emails being sent within a certain time window. The service may determine based at least on the scores assigned to the emails that the user s email account is compromised. Upon a determination that the user s email account is compromised e.g. a single score above a threshold or a combination of scores above a threshold the service may not transmit the messages until the user has successfully authenticated with the service. For example the service may send a short text message to the user indicating that their email account appears to be compromised. The user may need to provide a unique code included in the text message before any further communication from the email account may be allowed. In an embodiment upon user authentication the service may hold the emails until the user has verified which emails should be sent and which emails should be marked as spam and or deleted.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user s electronic service or messaging service can include an emailing service a social networking service an instant messaging service or any suitable communication service that utilizes computer network technology. As described herein the phrase spam content includes content which is irrelevant contains inappropriate messages contains computer viruses contains links to other web sites which proliferate spam contains unsolicited advertisements or is any message not authorized or otherwise intended to be sent by the user. In an example the content of a user s message which is either being sent or attempting to be sent may be analyzed for spam content utilizing a spam detection algorithm. Examples of a spam detection algorithm can include a Bayesian spam filtering algorithm an AdaBoost machine learning algorithm or any suitable combination of supervised learning spam classification algorithms. In an example a spam detection algorithm may be utilized to determine whether the content of the electronic message contains spam content. For example an algorithm may be utilized to determine if an email contains a nonsensical alpha numeric string in the body of an email or contains multiple links to web pages that are known to proliferate viruses. In accordance with at least one embodiment an electronic message can include an email a social networking post or message or an instant message. In accordance with at least one embodiment electronic messages that are configured to be sent by a user or electronic messages that are attempting to be sent by a messaging service may be analyzed to determine if the messaging service has been compromised. In an embodiment electronic messages that are configured to be sent or electronic messages that are attempting to be sent by a messaging service include messages that are formatted appropriately under Post Office Protocol POP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP User Datagram Protocol UDP Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . In accordance with at least one embodiment electronic messages that are configured to be sent or electronic messages that are attempting to be sent by a messaging service include messages that are composed by a user but not yet sent messages that a user has attempted to send via the messaging service through the use of a send button for example but that have not been sent to their intended recipient by the messaging service or messages that have not been forwarded to the recipient of the message by the messaging service. In accordance with at least one embodiment electronic messages that are attempting to be sent by a messaging service may be identified and or analyzed to determine that the messaging service has been compromised by a third party. In an embodiment identifying that a messaging service is attempting to send a plurality of electronic messages or an electronic message includes identifying that electronic messages have been composed but not yet sent. In accordance with at least one embodiment identifying that a messaging service is attempting to send a plurality of electronic messages or an electronic message includes identifying that the messages are configured in such a way that the message service may send them when ready.

In an embodiment the analyzed electronic message s may be assigned a score which represents the probability that the message contains spam content. In accordance with at least one embodiment the one or more scores may be compared to a certain threshold to determine if a user s electronic service has been compromised. In one embodiment the threshold can be pre defined by administrators of the service. In accordance with at least one embodiment the threshold can be specified by a participating user. In one example if the calculated score exceeds the threshold than the service may prevent communications from the electronic service. If the threshold is not exceeded the service may allow communication from the electronic service to continue. In accordance with at least one embodiment the threshold can be dynamically updated by the service according to training data provided by the user the calculated scores or any combination thereof. In accordance with at least one embodiment the threshold can be determined based at least on whether the electronic service or service has previously been compromised by a third party.

In accordance with at least one embodiment if an electronic service is prevented from communicating messages the service may request authentication information from a user. In accordance with at least one embodiment authentication information can include at least a username and password a unique code or identifier communicated to the user via a mobile phone or other SMS texting technology or a phone call. In accordance with at least one embodiment upon receiving the requested authentication information from the user communication from the electronic service may no longer be prevented. In accordance with at least one embodiment the service may continue to prevent the communication of the electronic messages until the user has provided input on which particular messages should be communicated and which should not be communicated via a user interface.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the service may detect that the electronic service of the user has been compromised by an outside party upon receiving one or more notifications from a social networking site. For example one or more individuals associated with the user via the social networking site may notice that the user is communicating or posting content which appears to be spam. The individuals associated with the user may utilize a notification feature to flag the content as spam. In accordance with at least one embodiment the user may utilize various notification features to indicate that the communicated content contains spam content. In an example the notification features can include a flagging feature a tag feature or a response submit feature. In accordance with at least one embodiment the notification features may be utilized by a user via a user interface provided by the messaging service or social networking service. In an embodiment the flag feature tag feature and response submit feature can be utilized to indicate that the communicated content contains spam content and to notify the messaging service or social networking service associated with the user that the service may be compromised by a third party. For example a recipient of the spam content may click a button on a user interface that can flag or tag the content as spam thus notifying the service provider that the messaging service or social networking service has been compromised. In another example the recipient of the spam content may be able to select and submit the content as containing spam content by utilizing a user interface feature that allows for selection and submission of the content for further spam content analysis by the service or notification to the service regarding a possible compromise by a third party. In accordance with at least one embodiment upon receiving a certain number of spam notifications the electronic service associated with the user may be prevented from communicating any content until authentication information has been provided by the user as described herein.

In accordance with at least one embodiment upon determining that an electronic service of the user has been compromised the service may notify websites associated with the user to prevent reset authentication capabilities until authentication information has been provided by the user. For example a user may normally use their email account to reset authentication for other services such as a bank account web page or an electronic marketplace ordering web page. If the user s email account is compromised then an outside party may be able to reset the authentication with the associated services and gain access to said services. In accordance with at least one embodiment the service may provide and or utilize an API that notifies and allows the other services to prevent reset authentication capabilities. In accordance with at least one embodiment once a user has provided authentication information to the service the service may communicate with the associated services to allow reset authentication capabilities.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a plurality of electronic messages that are attempting to be sent by a user s messaging service may be analyzed to determine if the messaging service has been compromised by a third party. In accordance with at least one embodiment the determination of whether the messaging service has been compromised is based on analyzing a spam property of each electronic message or of the plurality of electronic messages. In an embodiment the spam property or properties can include whether the electronic message contains spam content based on a spam detection algorithm whether each electronic message of the plurality of electronic messages is attempting to be sent to a unique recipient within a time threshold or window or whether the collective information of the electronic message containing spam content and each electronic message being sent to a unique recipient within a time window or threshold. For example the system may identify that a user s electronic messaging service is attempting to send an electronic message to each person in the user s contact list within a short period of time or almost simultaneously. In response to identifying the attempted mass communication to each contact associated with the user within a short time window the system may determine that the user s messaging service has been compromised by a third party and prevent communication of the electronic messages until the user has provided authentication information. In accordance with at least one embodiment the system may identify that a message contains spam content and determine that the user s messaging service has been compromised by a third party and prevent communication of the electronic messages until the user has provided authentication information. In accordance with at least one embodiment the system may calculate a score based on the spam properties which it may compare to a threshold to determine if the user s messaging service has been compromised.

When it has been determined by the service provider computer that the electronic service has been compromised then the service provider computer may request authentication information from the user before communicating electronic messages . For example the service provider computer may request authentication information from a user utilizing a user device . Once the user has provided the requested authentication information the electronic messages may be allowed to be communicated to their intended recipients . In accordance with at least one embodiment the electronic service may be prevented from communicating the electronic messages until the user has successfully authenticated with the electronic service . The user utilizing a user device may specify which electronic messages can be communicated and which electronic messages were properly classified as containing spam content.

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with the spam detection prevention computers via the one or more user devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. .

As described briefly above the application may allow the users to interact with a service provider computer such as to access web content e.g. web pages music video etc. . The one or more spam detection prevention computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the application and or cloud based software services. Other server architectures may also be used to host the application . The application may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various item web pages. The application can provide any type of website that supports user interaction including social networking sites online retailers informational sites blog sites search engine sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the application such as with other applications running on the user devices .

The user devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC an electronic book e book reader etc. In some examples the user devices may be in communication with the spam detection prevention computers via the networks or via other network connections. Additionally the user devices may be part of the distributed system managed by controlled by or otherwise part of the spam detection prevention computers e.g. a console device integrated with the spam detection prevention computers .

In one illustrative configuration the user devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The user devices may also include geo location devices e.g. a global positioning system GPS device or the like for providing and or recording geographic location information associated with the user devices .

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least a user provided input element or electronic service web page such as via the browser application or dedicated applications e.g. smart phone applications tablet applications etc. . The browser application may be configured to receive store and or display a website or other interface for interacting with the spam detection prevention computers . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. In addition the user information may include a user provided response to a security question or a geographic location obtained by the user device .

In some aspects the question answer management computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. Additionally it should be noted that in some embodiments the service provider computers are executed by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment. In some examples the spam detection prevention computers may be in communication with the user devices and or other service providers via the networks or via other network connections. The spam detection prevention computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to implement the spam detection prevention services described herein as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the spam detection prevention computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of spam detection prevention computers the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The spam detection prevention computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as SRAM DRAM or ROM.

The memory the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are all examples of computer storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the spam detection prevention computers may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the spam detection prevention computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The spam detection prevention computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the spam detection prevention computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The spam detection prevention computers may also include I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system one or more data stores and or one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a spam detection module an authentication module a spam prevention module a user interface module and or a communication module . In some examples the spam detection module may be configured to detect whether electronic messages contain spam content. For example the spam detection module can be configured to utilize one or more spam detection algorithms to determine the probability that an electronic message s contain spam content. In an embodiment this process may include calculating a score for the electronic message where the score represents the probability that the message contains spam content. In another example the spam detection module may be configured to determine whether a plurality of messages being sent within a given time window contain spam content. The spam detection module may be configured to calculate a score for the plurality of messages sent within a given time window to aid in determining whether an electronic service associated with the message has been compromised by an outside party.

The spam detection module may be configured to determine whether an electronic message contains spam content. For example the spam detection module can utilize a spam detection algorithm to determine whether an electronic message contains spam content. The spam detection module may also be configured to determine whether a plurality of messages that are being sent within a certain time period of the electronic message also contain spam content. In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection module may calculate a first score for the electronic message which represents the probability that the electronic message contains spam content. In some examples the first score may be utilized by the spam prevention module to determine whether the electronic service associated with the electronic message has been compromised.

The spam detection module may also be configured to calculate a history score which represents the probability that the plurality of messages being sent within a certain time period of the electronic message also contain spam content. In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection module may provide the first score and the history score to the spam prevention module to determine whether the electronic service associated with the message has been compromised by an outside party. For example the spam prevention module may compare a combination of the scores to a specified threshold to determine whether the electronic service has been compromised by an outside party.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection module may be configured to receive a notification that an electronic message is being sent by an electronic service associated with a user. For example an outside party may be utilizing the user s user device to send messages which contain spam content. In an example a virus may be attempting to send a plurality of messages to each contact within a user s email account. The messages may be communicated to the one or more spam detection prevention service computers via the networks from a local electronic service such as a local mail client configured to run on the user device . In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection prevention service computers may be configured to provide a native application for spam detection and prevention for use on the user device . In accordance with at least one embodiment the electronic message may be communicated from an electronic service configured to run on the browser application where the electronic service is provided by a third party. The third party may utilize one or more third party computers to communicate the messages being sent from the electronic service to the spam detection prevention service computers via networks . In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection prevention service computers may be configured to provide electronic services for sending and receiving electronic messages such as an email client or social networking site. The spam detection prevention service computers may provide the electronic service via networks to display and interact with on user devices utilizing a browser application or a native application configured to run on the user devices . In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may opt in to participate in the service provided by the spam detection prevention service computers . In some examples the user may participate in the spam detection prevention services by agreeing to a user license agreement upon signing up for an electronic service such as an email client or social network. The user license agreement provided by a third party email client or social network may also include language which informs the user that they can participate in services provided by the spam detection prevention service computers .

The spam detection module may also be configured to receive one or more notifications from recipients of spam content from an electronic service associated with the user. In accordance with at least one embodiment the communication module in conjunction with the spam detection module may be configured to receive the one or more notifications and calculate a probability that the electronic service associated with the user has been compromised by an outside party. For example several people associated with the user via a social networking site may receive multiple messages which contain spam content. The several people may utilize a notification feature which has been provided by the spam detection prevention service computer to the electronic service to flag or tag received content as spam. In accordance with at least one embodiment the notification feature may communicate the notifications from the electronic service to the spam detection prevention service computers via networks . In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam prevention module may be configured to analyze the notifications and calculate a probability that the electronic service has been compromised. For example the number of notifications may be compared to a specified threshold by the spam prevention module to determine if the electronic service has been compromised.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection prevention service computers and the spam detection module may be responsible for encrypting and decrypting electronic messages being sent by the user utilizing an electronic service configured to run on a browser application or a native application on the user device . In accordance with at least one embodiment messages may be encrypted for communication to the spam detection prevention service computers decrypted and analyzed by the spam detection module and encrypted again for transfer to the electronic service attempting to send the message. In some examples the spam detection prevention service computers may employ encryption decryption techniques including a symmetric key encryption scheme a public key encryption scheme or any suitable encryption decryption algorithm or scheme.

The memory may also include a spam prevention module . The spam prevention module may be configured to determine if an electronic service has been compromised. As described herein and in accordance with at least one embodiment the spam prevention module can compare a score calculated by the spam detection module to a specified threshold to determine if the electronic service of a user has been compromised. In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may specify the threshold which determines if an electronic service has been compromised. In accordance with at least one embodiment the user specified thresholds may be stored on the one or more data stores for access and maintenance. In accordance with at least one embodiment an administrator of the spam detection prevention service computers may specify the threshold. In accordance with at least one embodiment different users may have different thresholds specified for them. In some examples different electronic services associated with the user may have varying threshold values specified by either the user or an administrator of the spam detection prevention computers .

In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam prevention module may be responsible for preventing the sending of electronic messages from an electronic service that has been determined to be compromised. For example upon a determination by the spam prevention module that a user s email account has been compromised the spam prevention module can prevent the communication of any outgoing emails from the email account until authentication information has been provided by the user. Thus the outside party who has compromised the email account may be unable to send a message to any recipient until the user has provided the requested authentication information. As will be described below the spam prevention module may communicate with the authentication module to request authentication information from the user to allow the sending of electronic messages.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam prevention module in combination with the communication module may be responsible for preventing third party reset authentication capabilities upon a determination that the user s electronic service has been compromised. For example a user s email account may be compromised by a third party. The compromising party or outside party may then be able to utilize the email account to reset the user s authentication for an associated bank account electronic marketplace ordering account a credit card account or any third party service which contains financial information or personal information. In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection prevention service computers may provide to participating third party services an API which allows the spam prevention module to prevent reset authentication capabilities. In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam prevention module may invoke the API of a participating third party service to prevent reset authentication capabilities via networks to for example one or more third party computers . In accordance with at least one embodiment the third party services may provide their own preventative reset authentication functions or APIs which may be called or invoked by the spam prevention module upon a determination that a user s electronic service has been compromised.

The memory may also include authentication module . The authentication module may be configured to request and receive authentication information from a user. For example when a determination has been made that the user s electronic service has been compromised the authentication module may create a unique code to provide to the user via a means other than the compromised electronic service. In an example the authentication module may provide a unique code to the user via a SMS text message a digital message to be played on a mobile phone an email to an electronic service that has not been determined to be compromised or via any suitable means of digital communication. In accordance with at least one embodiment the authentication module may be configured to request authentication information. Authentication information may include username and password information an answer to a security question a previously provided code or a time sensitive code communicated to the user.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the authentication information requested may include an authenticator token which can be provided by the spam detection prevention service computers via a separate standalone application. In accordance with at least one embodiment the authentication module and spam prevention module may be configured to allow the sending of messages upon receiving the requested authentication information. In accordance with at least one embodiment the one or more data stores may be configured to store and maintain requested and received authentication information. In accordance with at least one embodiment the authentication module and the spam prevention module may be configured to communicate with one or more third party services to allow reset authentication capabilities that may have been previously locked.

The memory may also include user interface module . In accordance with at least one embodiment the user interface module the spam prevention module and the spam detection module may be configured to receive input from a user interface associated with the electronic service. In accordance with at least one embodiment the user interface module and the spam prevention module may prevent the sending of messages from a compromised electronic service after receiving authentication information provided by the user. The modules and may require further input from the user regarding which messages should be sent and which were correctly classified as containing spam content. In some examples the user interface module and the spam prevention module may allow the sending of user specified electronic messages upon receiving the user input. In an example the user interface module may be configured to receive input regarding which messages should be sent and which should not be sent. For example if a user s email account has been compromised upon providing the requested authentication information the user may securely log into the email account and specify which emails should be sent and which should not be sent. In accordance with at least one embodiment the spam detection prevention service computers and the user interface module may be responsible for providing a user interface which the user may interact with to provide input regarding electronic messages. In accordance with at least one embodiment the user interface module may provide a user interface to the user via the browser application or via an application configured to run on the user device .

A few additional examples of the operations of the question answer management computers are also described in greater detail below with reference to .

The web page may include a plurality of electronic messages that are being prevented from being sent by the spam detection prevention service described herein. As described above the interface provided via web page may be configured to receive input from the user indicating which messages should be sent and which messages were correctly classified as spam content . In accordance with at least one embodiment once the user has indicated that a message may be communicated the modules and may allow the electronic service associated with the messages to complete the sending operation of the confirmed messages. In accordance with at least one embodiment messages which are confirmed as containing spam content may be utilized by the spam detection prevention computers and spam detection module to provide training data for the one or more spam detection algorithms described above. In accordance with at least one embodiment the one or more spam detection algorithms may be dynamically updated utilizing the provided training data as confirmed by the user.

When it has been determined by the service provider computer that the user s electronic service has been compromised then the service provider computer may request authentication information from the user before communicating electronic messages from the associated electronic service. For example the service provider computer may request authentication information from a user utilizing a user device . Once the user has provided the requested authentication information electronic messages may again be communicated from the associated electronic service. In accordance with at least one embodiment the electronic service may be prevented from communicating the electronic messages until the user has successfully authenticated with the electronic service. The user utilizing a user device may specify which electronic messages can be communicated and which electronic messages were properly classified as containing spam content.

When it has been determined by the service provider computer that the user s electronic service has been compromised then the service provider computer may call APIs to prevent reset authentication capability of associated third party services until authentication information has been provided by the user . For example the service provider computer may call or invoke APIs provided by the one or more associated third party services to prevent reset authentication capability. In accordance with at least one embodiment the API may be provided to the associated third party services by the spam detection prevention service via networks . Once the user has provided the requested authentication information the service provider computer may communicate with the associated third party services to again allow reset authentication capability. In accordance with at least one embodiment the renewal of reset authentication capability may be provided by a different or a similar API call as utilized at .

Additionally some any or all of the processes may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

At the process may include calculating a recent history score for the plurality of electronic messages. In an embodiment the recent history score can be calculated utilizing the spam detection algorithm described above. In some examples the recent history score can be a combination of scores for each individual message. In accordance with at least one embodiment a recent history score can be calculated based at least in part on how many individual messages are being sent within a given time window surrounding the electronic message. In accordance with at least one embodiment the time window may be specified by the user the service provider or the messaging service. At the process may include determining whether an email client of the user has been compromised by an outside party based at least in part on the score and the recent history score. At the process may include requesting authentication information from the user upon a determination that the email client has been compromised by an outside party. In an embodiment the authentication information may be requested from a user via a text message an email message sent to an alternate email client or a digital recording that may interact with any suitable media player. The process may conclude at by preventing the communication of the plurality of electronic messages until the user has provided the authentication information . In some examples the user may provide the authentication information utilizing user devices .

At the process may include determining whether an electronic service of the user has been infiltrated by an outside party based at least in part on the score. The process may conclude at by requesting authentication information from the user upon a determination that the electronic service has been compromised. In an embodiment the authentication information may be requested from a user via a text message an email message sent to an alternate email client or a digital recording that may interact with any suitable media player. In some examples the user may provide the authentication information utilizing user devices .

At the process may include requesting authentication information from the user upon a determination to prevent communication of content from the electronic service. In an embodiment the authentication information may be requested from a user via a text message an email message sent to an alternate email client or a digital recording that may interact with any suitable media player. In some examples the user may provide the authentication information utilizing user devices . The process may conclude at by preventing the communication of content from the electronic service until the user has provided authentication information.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

