---

title: Method and apparatus of providing notification services to smartphone devices
abstract: A method and apparatus of establishing a notification distribution is disclosed. The method may include receiving user information in a notification database identifying a notification recipient. The method may further provide receiving synchronization information from a business entity configured to upload notifications intended for the at least one user recipient. The method may also include transmitting at least one notification to the user recipient during a time window specified by the business entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09231991&OS=09231991&RS=09231991
owner: West Corporation
number: 09231991
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140702
---
The present patent application is a continuation of and claims priority from patent application Ser. No. 13 232 448 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS OF PROVIDING NOTIFICATION SERVICES TO SMARTPHONE DEVICES filed Sep. 14 2011 the entire contents of which are enclosed by reference herein.

This invention relates to a method and apparatus of providing notification services to smartphones and related subscriber devices and in particular to providing push notification reminders to the subscribers associated with any type of service organization.

Consumers seek to maximize the use of their time. Electronic devices such as smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs mobile telephones tablet devices laptops and other Internet connectivity devices mobile stations provide users with mobile access to various information resources. Such mobile stations generally operate via a cellular 3G or 4G broadband data communication standard and or a WIFI network connection to a local area network.

Digital data services such as voice services and mobile data services provide user data services and applications to the end user. For example calendar services and notification services provide appointment and calendar related information to mobile users on a daily basis. Also these appointment services may offer advanced data services such as synchronization and feedback services with remote organizations affiliated with the mobile user e.g. doctor s office scheduling workplace scheduling bill payment scheduling etc. .

Conventionally users relied strictly on user initiated calendar applications integrated with e mail on their mobile devices. However users may be unfamiliar with the above noted scheduling services and such services may require constant user updating efforts. Notification services may offer additional features to provide notifications or reminders to the user to maintain an interactive environment between the users and the associated business entities. Additionally such scheduling services may be customized to the users needs and preferences.

One embodiment of the present invention may include a method of establishing a notification distribution. The method may include receiving user information in a notification database identifying at least one user notification recipient. The method may also include receiving synchronization information from at least one business entity configured to upload notifications intended for the at least one user recipient. The method may further include transmitting at least one notification to the at least one user recipient during a time window specified by the at least one business entity.

Another example embodiment of the present invention may include an apparatus configured to establish a notification distribution. The apparatus may include a receiver configured to receive user information in a notification database identifying at least one user notification recipient and receive synchronization information from at least one business entity configured to upload notifications intended for the at least one user recipient. The apparatus may also include a transmitter configured to transmit at least one notification to the at least one user recipient during a time window specified by the at least one business entity.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus and system as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases example embodiments some embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases example embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In addition while the term message has been used in the description of embodiments of the present invention the invention may be applied to many types of network data such as packet frame datagram etc. For purposes of this invention the term message also includes packet frame datagram and any equivalents thereof. Furthermore while certain types of messages and signaling are depicted in exemplary embodiments of the invention the invention is not limited to a certain type of message and the invention is not limited to a certain type of signaling.

In operation the communication network of processes notifications which are sent to the notifications recipient at the appropriate predefined time s stored in the notifications database . The notifications may be sent as a voice call email SMS MMS message mobile application e.g. mobile smartphone application a web site plug in etc. and may be sent to the mobile station via push notifications operating in accordance with a push protocol for instant delivery to the mobile station .

In one example a text message may be sent as a push notification across the cellular or wireless communication network to a MSC and routed to a BSC and corresponding BS . Certain text messaging protocols may be used such as mobile short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS and instant messaging IM or any other related text application. The communication medium may include transferring information over communication links such as wireless networks e.g. GSM CDMA 3G 4G etc. wireline networks e.g. landline telephony Internet satellite cable networks or any other data medium using standard communication protocols.

The notifications database may provide a centralized data storage of all notifications that are intended for the subscribers . The notifications database may receive user initiated notifications and or business entity initiated notifications that are intended to be sent to the end user at predefined intervals. An application programming interface API is provided as an application and or website that the business entities may subscribe with for the purpose of entering notification information for a particular subscriber .

According to one example a user may visit the dentist office and may agree to receive notifications from the dentist office by registering with an online application or in person QR code. The dentist office may maintain a record of the user and his or her appointments in an office server which maintains a record of the customer s name telephone number address appointments scheduled and other information. The information may be stored in a database as part of the office server or as a separate entity. In operation the end user may sign up for notification services by scanning a quick response QR code found on a publicly displayed poster at the provider s establishment see poster of and or by scanning a QR code found on the provider s website. Alternatively the user may enter an alphanumeric code from a publicly displayed poster into the smartphone application and or enter an alphanumeric code obtained from the provider via verbal or written methods.

On receiving the user submission a web service request is made to the notification system to flag the registered user as a consented receiver of notifications for the business entity provider . The flag may be set to active and stored in the notification database . Alternatively when the user desires not to receive notifications any longer the flag may be set to inactive but may remain in the database for a certain amount of time pending the user s decision to reactivate the notifications from a particular business entity . Once the user registration has been setup the user may input additional information designating at least one business entity form which the user desires to begin receiving notifications. Linking the user registration information and the business entity designation in the notification database provides a link between the notifications scheduled by the business entity and in turn the notifications actually sent to the user.

Examples of the user registering for notifications and receiving notifications are discussed in further detail below. In one example the notification recipient user may visit the dentist office as a patient and arrive for their appointment accordingly. On the wall of the dentist office may be a poster similar to where the user can scan the QR code to initiate the notification application. The patient may instead access an application store on their smartphone and download the reminder application for free. The patient may register and use the application to scan the QR code in the office directly to their smartphone via a smartphone scanning operation performed via the camera feature of the smartphone. The application may have been generated specifically for that provider or may be generic to any provider. The patient is now registered for notification services with their dentist s office and will receive appointment reminders and other notifications via a push notification protocol.

The dentist office may store the user s name telephone number address and appointment information in a database . The dentist office server may synchronize the upcoming appointments with a notification system by periodically interfacing with an application programming interface to upload the patient appointment information to the notifications database . The uploaded appointment information may then utilize a notification engine to trigger the appointment reminders ahead of schedule and notify the user periodically of the upcoming appointments e.g. one week ahead of time one day ahead of time 5 hours ahead of time etc. . Other information may also be passed on to the user via a push notification such as what documentation is needed during the appointment. Other pertinent information may be passed along to the user via push notifications such as selling points e.g. Did you know that Dr. Smith was the dentist of the year by Healthy Gums magazine to encourage the user to keep their scheduled appointments and follow up for future appointments.

In another example the notifications recipient may visit a car dealer . After purchasing a new vehicle the customer may be handed a sheet of paper which contains instructions similar to . The customer may then visit the smartphone s application store and download the reminder application for free. The customer may register and use the application to scan the QR code on the instruction page. The customer is now registered for notification services with the car dealership and will receive whatever information suggested by the car dealer maintenance reminders upcoming sales and other notifications customized by the car dealer via push notification. These reminders may be stored in the car dealer database and forwarded to the notification system via a local server operating at the car dealer . The local server may periodically send update messages to the notifications database to add new notifications or to reschedule existing notifications.

In another example according to example embodiments of the present invention a credit card provider may offer push notifications to a notifications recipient . A customer may be concerned with identity theft and may call the credit card provider frequently to request notification each time his or her credit card is used which creates a burden for the credit card provider to maintain customer service personnel for the end user s frequent inquiries. The credit card support operator may inform the customer of a reminder application and its notification capability which notifies the customer each time his or her credit card is used or less often e.g. once a week etc. .

In order to register for the automatic reminders or notifications the customer may be supplied with an alphanumeric code from the credit card provider . The customer downloads the reminder application for free from the smartphone s application store and registers their personal information. The customer inputs the code corresponding to the credit card provider and is now registered for notification services with the credit card provider and will receive alerts when his or her credit card is used. The credit card provider may store the customer s personal information in a database and upload the information to a notification system via a server similar to the above noted examples. This provides the notification system with the customer s personal information for notifications to be generated and sent to the recipient at the appropriate times.

In operation a user may download the application or scan the QR code via the user s smartphone . The user may setup an account by entering email information and or notification preferences such as audible indicators time frame for receiving notifications rescheduling options default options links to other calendar applications and voice mail text message preferences etc. The user may then connect with a business entity to begin synchronizing appointment information initiated by the business entity and stored in the notification database .

According to one example embodiment of the present invention the operation of the notification system may follow a particular flow of events for a business entity . For example a business entity e.g. dentist office car dealer or credit card provider may register with the notification system provided by a third party notification service at a remote location. The business may provide sign up information name address billing information etc. which will be submitted online and stored in the notifications database as a new profile. The business entity may be provided with an automatically generated sender identification ID . Contracts based on usage and billing will be created at this time and associated with the sender ID.

The business entity may then register notification offerings. For example using an online web interface the business entity will enter notification offerings that may be offered to potential end user recipients . In order to promote the use of the application the business entity will be provided with marketing materials that includes the QR codes for quick subscription functions both in hard copy format and via an electronic online version for website notification access. Using the API provided by the notification system the business entity will send notification data through a web service that will create new entries in the notifications database .

Information exchanged between the business entity and the notification system may include a sender ID which is the ID of the business entity within the notifications database. Other information exchanged may include a receiver ID which is the ID of the end user that will receive the notification. Further information may include message content which is the message to be displayed via a push notification and a notification ID which is a unique ID for a particular notification which is used in case a modification is required. Other parameters needed to create a push notification may include a window begin parameter designating the earliest time in a date time format at which the notification can be sent out a window end parameter designating the latest time in a date time format at which the notification can be sent out.

One example method of operation of the notification system may include the following operations. A business entity such as Dr. Smith orthodontics may register to use the reminder application to send out appointment reminders and important information e.g. office closed due to weather . Dr. Smith may contact a sales representative at the notification system provider and have his information entered into the system. He may also sign a contract paying on a per notification basis an unlimited notification plan etc.

Dr. Smith may only require two basic notifications such as appointment reminders and emergency information. Dr. Smith may log on to the reminder application web site and add these two offerings and their descriptions. As a result Dr. Smith may receive several posters with instructions and QR codes which can be hung up on the walls at this practice. He may also add the QR codes to his website and patient forms. Using an appointment integration application e.g. T. Link Dr. Smith may automate the sending of appointment reminder push notifications based on new appointments added to his push management system PMS . On days where he is sick and won t be in the office Dr. Smith can send individual or bulk push notifications to his patients for the day using the reminder application website or a custom interface solution utilizing the API. Such notifications may solicit a response such as rescheduling an appointment that was cancelled at the same time of sending a notification that the appointment was cancelled.

An example flow of events for an end user notification recipient may include downloading the reminder application depending on what type of smart phone the user has he or she can download the application free of charge from the phone s respective application market. Next the user may register to use the application by providing personal information name address e mail preferences etc. The user may be asked for their first name last name and email address. The email address is required for integration purposes and to verify the user by sending an email with a confirmation link code. The user may then subscribe to receive push notifications from registered business entities.

In order to subscribe to notifications the user may scan a QR code. This will submit via a web service the user s ID and the sender information encoded in the QR code to the notifications engine. The notifications engine will attempt to confirm that the user exists in the sender s data via a web service. If no web service integration is set up the notification engine will submit a notice to the sender providing the user s information. It will be up to the sender at this point to verify the user against their own records. Once the user is confirmed an entry will be added to the notifications database reflecting the user s subscription with the sender.

The user can input a code into the application to identify the business entity as a notification provider. The flow of operations for the notification engine is described in detail below. The notification engine receives notifications individual or bulk via web services that are exposed but secured for registered business entities and stores them in the notification database based on pre established profiles setup for the business entity . A web service broker will process the requests and send them to queues based on their send window. A task service farm will work on individual queues and send out the push notifications during an open send window.

Should errors or an outage occur within the task service farm unsent notifications still within their send window will be given high priority and re inserted into the queues. Successful deliveries will be removed from the notifications database and archived on a separate database for reporting purposes. Deliveries may be deemed successful when a confirmation is returned to the notification system or via a lack of an error message being received at the notification system .

The appointment reminder depicted on a smartphone device such as the Android smartphone platform in is an example with the reminder application involving a patient and an orthodontist office named Smith Orthodontics. Orthodontist offices may implement a practice management system PMS to maintain records of all their patients and respective appointments. Typically a receptionist inputs information directly into the PMS using the software that was provided. In order to automate sending appointment reminders the practice will either have to be registered with a third party provider that provides integration services e.g. T. Link or have their own PMS or in house developers integrate the functionality of submitting a notification to the notification engine . Any business entity may desire to have notifications sent automatically based on any event whether it be an appointment or a maintenance schedule event.

Once the notification engine receives the push notification request it is sent out during the send window time frame provided by the sender business entity . The notification recipient will receive a push notification such as the examples depicted in . A notification can be modified up to the point of dispatch. Ideally within ten minutes of the beginning of the send window a notification may be modified. For example if an appointment reminder notification is scheduled to have a send window between 5 00 pm and 5 10 pm today the notification can be updated up until 4 50 pm. The functionality to update a notification will be provided in the API . If the message content changes and or send time changes the system can automatically update the notification database entry based on the updated notification information.

According to an example embodiment of the present invention a user may perform a series of operations in order to receive and respond to push notifications. The following is a list of operations a user may employ to receive and respond to notifications. The user may begin by downloading the reminder application from an application source or via a website of the notification system . For example the user may download the application from their phone s application markets such as an Apple iOS and or a Google Android etc. each of which maintains a centralized marketplace for downloading applications.

Using the application or through the website the user must submit registration information. Using the application the user may enter his or her first name last name email address password and password confirmation. All five fields are generally required for registration to be completed. A confirmation email may be sent to the email address containing a link code for verification. Once the link has been clicked or the code has been submitted via the application the user is registered and can begin subscribing to business entities that are registered with the reminder application of the notification system .

Once the user has established a notification application registration procedure the user may subscribe to business entities registered with the reminder application. In order to successfully subscribe the user must use the reminder application by scanning the business entity s QR code. The codes can be scanned anywhere for example from a poster sheet of paper or via an email or website. The QR code contains information about the business entity which along with the user s information submits a request for a subscription to the notification engine . Once the user is verified by the business entity via integration efforts or from manual verification procedures the user may begin receiving push notifications based on the reminders that have been uploaded to the notifications database .

Using the reminder application the user may input an alphanumeric code which contains information about the business entity . The business entity may submit information to setup a notification such information may include the user s information and a request for subscription to the notification engine . Once the user is verified by the business entity via integrations or manual verification the user will begin receiving push notifications.

A user may optionally respond to a push notification. Once a push notification is received the user can click on the push notification to launch the reminder application and view full details about the notification. The user response or feedback may be a simple one question survey such as confirming an appointment so the business entity can have confirmation of the appointment. The user may unsubscribe from receiving notifications from the business entity . If a user wishes to stop receiving push notifications he or she can remove the business entity from his or her list of subscriptions on the application. By removing the subscription a web service request may be sent to remove the user s subscription entry from the notification database .

The operations of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example illustrates an example network element which may represent any of the above described network components of .

As illustrated in a memory and a processor may be discrete components of the network entity that are used to execute an application or set of operations. The application may be coded in software in a computer language understood by the processor and stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . Furthermore a software module may be another discrete entity that is part of the network entity and which contains software instructions that may be executed by the processor . In addition to the above noted components of the network entity the network entity may also have a transmitter and receiver pair configured to receive and transmit communication signals not shown .

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described it is to be understood that the embodiments described are illustrative only and the scope of the invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims when considered with a full range of equivalents and modifications e.g. protocols hardware devices software platforms etc. thereto.

