---

title: System and method for measuring the quantity, type and transmission quality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area
abstract: A system and method for measuring the quantity, type, transmission quality and visit history of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area is disclosed herein. A data server is configured to receive new transmission data for mobile devices from each of a plurality of sensor devices and associate the new transmission data with a corresponding sensor device of the plurality of sensor devices. A console application is also configured to display the display information to an end-user operator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253672&OS=09253672&RS=09253672
owner: Joingo, LLC
number: 09253672
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140512
---
The Present application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 145 740 filed on Dec. 31 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to WiFi transmission data and the collection of data associated with such transmissions in a specific venue.

The prior art discusses various method of collecting data from WiFi transmissions especially from mobile communication devices.

One reference is Holmes et al. U.S. Patent Publication Number 20130115969 for a System and Method for Cell Phone Targeting and Tracking which discloses a system and method for tracking a plurality of user cell phones within a defined coverage area.

Another example is Roeding et al. U.S. Patent Publication Number 20110029359 for a Method and System for Detecting Presence Using a WI FI Network Probe Detector which discloses a detection system that monitors Wi Fi wireless communications at a wireless device and detects a probe request associated with a location.

Yet another example is Houri U.S. Patent Publication Number 20070126635 for a System and Method for Determining Geographic Location of Wireless Computing Devices which discloses a system for enabling a wireless computing device to determine its position using a server with a database of identification and positional information about wireless beacons.

Yet another example is Alizadeh Shabdiz U.S. Pat. No. 8 606 294 for a Method of and System for Estimating Temporal Demographics of Mobile Users which discloses a method of estimating demographic information associated with a selected geographical area including for at least one individual determining a selected geographical area along a portion of a track of travel of the individual and determining demographic information associated with the at least one individual.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

Beacon is a management frame that contains all of the information about a network. In a WLAN Beacon frames are periodically transmitted to announce the presence of the network.

BLUETOOTH technology is a standard short range radio link that operates in the unlicensed 2.4 gigaHertz band.

Code Division Multiple Access CDMA is a spread spectrum communication system used in second generation and third generation cellular networks and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307.

CRM Customer Relationship Management is a widely implemented strategy for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. CRM involves using technology to organize automate and synchronize business processes and the like principally sales activities but also business processes and the like for marketing customer service and technical support.

DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol is a standard network protocol defined by RFC 1541 that allows a server to dynamically distribute IP addressing and configuration information such as the subnet mask and the default gateway to clients upon client requests.

Direct Inward Dialing DID involves a carrier providing one or more trunk lines to a customer for connection to the customer s private branch exchange PBX and a range of telephone lines are allocated to this line.

FTP or File Transfer Protocol is a protocol for moving files over the Internet from one computer to another.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a set of conventions for controlling the transfer of information via the Internet from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS is a communications protocol for secure communication via a network from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server by at a minimum verifying the authenticity of a web site.

Internet is the worldwide decentralized totality of server computers and data transmission paths which can supply information to a connected and browser equipped client computer and can receive and forward information entered from the client computer.

Media Access Control MAC Address is a unique identifier assigned to the network interface by the manufacturer.

Organizationally Unique Identifier OUI is a 24 bit number that uniquely identifies a vendor manufacturer or organization on a worldwide basis. The OUI is used to help distinguish both physical devices and software such as a network protocol that belong to one entity from those that belong to another.

Probe Request A frame that contains the advertisement IE for a device that is seeking to establish a connection with a proximate device.

Probe Response A frame that contains the advertisement IE for a device. The Probe Response is sent in response to a Probe Request.

SSID Service Set Identifier is a 1 to 32 byte string that uniquely names a wireless local area network.

User Interface or UI is the junction between a user and a computer program. An interface is a set of commands or menus through which a user communicates with a program. A command driven interface is one in which the user enter commands. A menu driven interface is one in which the user selects command choices from various menus displayed on the screen.

Web Browser is a complex software program resident in a client computer that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

Wireless Application Protocol WAP is an open global specification that empowers users with mobile wireless communication devices such as mobile phones to easily access data and to interact with Websites over the Internet through such mobile wireless communication device. WAP works with most wireless communication networks such as CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX reflex iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex and GRPS.

WAP can be built on most operating systems including PalmOS WINDOWS CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS and others.

WAP Push is defined as an encoded WAP content message delivered pushed to a mobile communication device which includes a link to a WAP address.

Wireless AP access point is a node on the wireless local area network WLAN that allows wireless devices to connect to a wired network using Wi Fi or related standards.

There is a need for measuring the quantity type and quality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area.

The present invention provides a method and system for measuring the quantity type and transmission quality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area.

One aspect of the present invention a system for measuring the quantity type transmission quality and visit data of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a venue. The system includes a plurality of sensor devices and data server. Each of the plurality of sensor devices comprises a processor a persistent storage and one or more radiofrequency radio receivers operating in the 2 6 Ghz range. The data server comprises a processor a database at least one network connection and at least one computer program configured to receive data uploads and store the data uploads in the database. Each of the plurality of sensor devices is configured to use one or more of the radiofrequency radio receivers to capture a plurality of WiFi protocol management transmissions from a plurality of mobile devices within range of the defined geographic area. Each of the plurality of sensor devices is configured to record to the persistent storage transmission data comprising each of the plurality of WiFi protocol management transmissions and record for each of the WiFi protocol management transmissions a radio identifier for the mobile device a transmission signal strength and a transmission time. Each of the plurality of sensor devices periodically connects to the data server over a network and uploads the recorded WiFi protocol management transmissions to the data server. The data server is configured to receive the recorded transmission data from each of the plurality of sensor devices and associate the recorded transmission data with a corresponding sensor device of the plurality of sensor devices. The data server is configured to determine venue visit data of each of the plurality of mobile communication devices based on the recorded transmission data received from the plurality of sensor devices.

Preferably the venue visit data comprises a visit history for each of the plurality of mobile communication devices. Alternatively the venue visit data comprises a path through the venue for each visit by each of the plurality of mobile communication devices. Alternatively the venue visit data comprises the areas of the venue visited by each of the plurality of mobile communication devices. Alternatively the venue visit data comprises venue point data for each visit by each of the plurality of mobile communication devices.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method for measuring the quantity type transmission quality and visit data of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area. The method includes receiving at a plurality of sensor devices a plurality of WiFi protocol management transmissions from a plurality of mobile devices within range of the defined geographic area. The method also includes recording to a persistent storage of sensor device of the plurality of sensor devices a radio identifier for the mobile device a transmission signal strength and a transmission time for each of the WiFi protocol management transmissions. The method also includes connecting to a data server over a network and uploading the recorded WiFi protocol management transmissions to the data server. The method also includes receiving the recorded transmission data from each of the plurality of sensor devices at the data server and associating the recorded transmission data with a corresponding sensor device of the plurality of sensor devices. The method also includes determining at the data server the number of devices the vendor of each device a transmission quality and venue visit data of the plurality of mobile communication devices based on the recorded transmission data received from the plurality of sensor devices.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a system for measuring the quantity type and transmission quality of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area. The system includes a plurality of sensor devices each of the plurality of sensor devices comprising a processor a memory a persistent storage one or more radiofrequency radio receivers operating in the 2 6 GHz range an operating system and at least one computer program. The system also includes a data server comprising a processor a memory a SQL database at least one network connection at least one computer program configured to receive data uploads and store the data uploads in the SQL database and an API. The system further includes a console application comprising a user interface and a charting function designed to create filtered charting data.

Each of the plurality of sensor devices preferably is configured to use one or more of the radiofrequency radios to capture a plurality of Wi Fi protocol management transmissions from a plurality of mobile devices within range of a defined geographic area. Each of the plurality of sensor devices preferably is configured to record to the persistent storage transmission data comprising each of the plurality of Wi Fi protocol management transmissions and for each transmission a radio identifier for the mobile device a transmission signal strength and a transmission time. Each of the plurality of sensor devices periodically connects to the data server over a network and uploads new transmission data.

The system includes that the data server is configured to receive new transmission data from each of the plurality of sensor devices and associate the new transmission data with a corresponding sensor device of the plurality of sensor devices. The API of the data server is configured to grant access to one or more analysis and visualization tools running in the console application.

The system further includes that the console application is configured to organize the transmission data into display information based upon at least one of date mobile device type and sensor device. The console application is also configured to display the display information to an end user operator.

Preferably each of the plurality of sensor devices periodically connects to the data server over a Wi Fi network or a cellular network.

Preferably the user interface of the console application comprises a plurality of functions for selecting one or more of the plurality of sensor devices.

Preferably the defined geographical area is a venue and the venue comprises a WLAN comprising a plurality of wireless access points and a DHCP server in communication with the WLAN the DHCP server configured to associate an IP address with a MAC address of a mobile device.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The system for measuring the quantity type and transmission quality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area is shown in . There are several mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area. Also shown in the system are sensor devices a data server including a SQL database and a network a wireless LAN .

The defined geographical area is preferably a venue and the venue comprises a WLAN 35 including wireless access points and a DHCP server in communication with the WLAN 35. The DHCP server is configured to associate an IP address with a MAC address of a mobile device .

In infrastructure WLANs wireless stations devices with radio network cards connect to wireless access points that function as bridges between the stations and the existing network backbone.

Mobile devices with Wi Fi enabled periodically transmit probe requests to locate an access point even when not associated to a network. A probe request includes the device s radio identifier MAC address transmission signal strength RSSI and transmission time as shown in . A probe request may or may not contain the SSID of a wireless AP. From the probe request transmissions of all the mobile devices within a specified area the number of devices the vendor of each device and the transmission quality of each device can be determined.

The mobile communication devices utilized with the present invention preferably include mobile phones smartphones tablet computers PDAs and the like. Examples of smartphones and the device vendors include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. the DROID smartphone from Motorola Mobility Inc. GALAXY S smartphones from Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and many more. Examples of tablet computing devices include the IPAD tablet from Apple Inc. and the XOOM tablet from Motorola Mobility Inc.

A mobile communication service provider aka phone carrier of the customer such as VERIZON AT T SPRINT T MOBILE and the like mobile communication service providers provide the communication network for communication to the mobile communication device of the end user.

Wireless standards include 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g AX.25 3G CDPD CDMA GSM GPRS radio microwave laser Bluetooth 802.15 802.16 and IrDA.

A sensor device is configured to use one or more of the radiofrequency radios to capture the WI FI protocol management transmissions from the mobile devices within range of a defined geographic area such as within Room A or Room B within a venue as shown in or within the entire venue . Placement and position of the sensors will be determined by the sensor s maximum range and the network configuration the facility building and the application requirements.

The sensor devices are configured to record the transmissions captured. The sensor devices periodically connects to the data server over a network and uploads new transmission data to the data server . The data server is configured to receive new transmission data from each of the sensor devices and associate the new transmission data with a corresponding sensor device.

Each of the interface descriptions preferably discloses use of at least one communication protocol to establish handshaking or bi directional communications. These protocols preferably include but are not limited to XML HTTP TCP IP Serial UDP FTP Web Services WAP SMTP SMPP DTS Stored Procedures Import Export Global Positioning Triangulation IM SMS MMS GPRS and Flash. The databases used with the system preferably include but are not limited to MSSQL Access MySQL Progress Oracle DB2 Open Source DBs and others. Operating system used with the system preferably include Microsoft 2010 XP Vista 200o Server 2003 Server 2008 Server Windows Mobile Linux Android Unix I series AS 400 and Apple OS.

The underlying protocol at a server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. The protocol at the server is preferably HTTPS.

As shown in a typical mobile communication device includes an accelerometer a headphone jack a microphone jack a speaker a GPS chipset a Bluetooth component a Wi Fi component a 3G 4G component a Baseband Processor for radio control an applications processor a JTAG debugger a SDRAM memory a Flash memory SIM card LCD display a camera a power management circuit and a battery or power source .

The system for measuring the quantity type and transmission quality of mobile communication devices within a defined geographical area also includes a console application comprising a user interface and a charting function designed to create filtered charting data as shown in . The console application is configured to organize the transmission data and to display the display information to an end user operator. The console application used by the end user operator is preferably on a smartphone as shown in or a desktop as shown in . However the console application is not limited to the output devices shown in . The user interface of the console includes functions for selecting one or more sensor devices. The transmission data can be displayed or sorted based upon the date the mobile device type or sensor device or any other such information. The data server of the system includes an API which is configured to grant access to one or more analysis and visualization tools running in the console as shown in .

A sequence diagram sdMACIP is shown in . For an example shown only one sensor device and one mobile device are illustrated however there may be more than one sensor and or more than one mobile device in a system of the present invention. The sensor uses its radiofrequency radio s to listen on the wireless network for devices scanning for wireless APs. As a mobile device sends a probe request the sensor device captures the transmission and saves the information to memory. Any number of transmissions sent from other devices shown as an outside source such as ProbeRequestn can be captured and stored by the sensor device . The typical data captured includes the device MAC address the quality of the relative received signal strength in the wireless LAN and the time of input. The sensor device is configured to forward all the new transmission data captured to a connected data server over a network. The data server is configured to receive new transmission data from each sensor device and associate the new transmission data with the corresponding sensor device ID. The data server writes the transmission information and the corresponding sensor ID into the database .

The console application runs one or more analysis and visualization tools which is accessed by a user interface. With the charting function a user can choose to design filtered charts and display the results. When a user shown as an outside source requests a report on the console application the console application first authenticates the application to the SQL Database . There are various ways to authenticate such as user authentication instead of application authentication. After successfully authenticating the API grants the console application access to the database contents. The analysis and visualization tools of the console application can then process the data such as sorting data by date by manufacturer or by sensor creating a chart or analyzing specific data. After processing the data the console application then displays the results such as graphs charts or reports to the user shown as an outside source .

The radio receivers of each of the sensor devices preferably operate in the 2 6 giga Hertz range. BLUETOOTH technology operates in the unlicensed 2.4 GHz band of the radio frequency spectrum and in a preferred embodiment each sensor device is capable of receiving and transmitting signals using BLUETOOTH technology. LTE Frequency Bands include 698 798 MHz Band 12 13 14 17 791 960 MHz Band 5 6 8 18 19 20 1710 2170 MHz Band 1 2 3 4 9 10 23 25 33 34 35 36 37 39 1427 1660.5 MH Band 11 21 24 2300 2700 MHz Band 7 38 40 41 3400 3800 MHz Band 22 42 43 and in a preferred embodiment each sensor device is capable of receiving and transmitting signals using one or more of the LTE frequency bands. WiFi preferably operates using 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n communication formats as set for the by the IEEE and in a preferred embodiment each sensor device is capable of receiving and transmitting signals using one or more of the 802.11 communication formats. The radio receivers are used by the sensor devices to intercept probe requests from mobile communication devices such as mobile phones or tablets that are present at a venue. The data obtained from the signals of the mobile communication devices are preferably stored in the memory or persistent storage of each sensor device . A computer program that runs on the sensor device is configured to store and then transfer the data.

The data is preferably transferred to the data server using either a cellular network such as a mobile phone network e.g. the VERIZON network or over the Internet using the WLAN of the venue. The data server comprises at least one computer program to receive the data uploads and store the data uploads in a SQL database. An API of the data server grants access to one or more analysis and visualization tools running in a console application that is on a computing device of an end user typically the end user is associated with the venue. The venue is preferably a casino resort a mall or a grocery store. Alternatively the venue is an airport a train station a city center an amusement park or a business campus. A venue includes a venue comprising multiple wireless APs.

The system preferably allows an operator to determine if a particular geographic location of a venue provides an adequate WiFi connection to a mobile communication device . Further the system provides an end user running the console application with quality information to determine if a geographic location is constantly below a threshold WiFi connection standard or only temporarily below a threshold WiFi connection standard as established by the venue. Network throughput measures the amount of data successfully transmitted between two locations in a data network usually not including header footer or routing information bits. It is generally measured in bits per second bps . Maximum theoretical WiFI throughput usually occurs between 150 Mbps to 450 Mbps. Data communication network analysis can include but is not limited to certain measurements throughput bandwidth quality of service dropped packet rate packet latency round trip time propagation delay transmission delay processing delay queuing delay network capacity packet jitter bit error rate packet error rate and frame error rate.

As shown in B and C a system for measuring the quantity type transmission quality and visit data of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a venue can determine a visit history for patron including the amount of time spent during the visit and where on the venue property the patron spent that time. The console application provides the visit data to a venue operator to better allocate resources and determine the preferences of patrons. The console application illustrates a schedule for a patron during visits to a venue by the patron. The patron plays slots on a first Monday and a Thursday but then plays blackjack on a subsequent Monday.

As discussed above the system identifies a MAC address on the mobile communication device of the patron of the venue . If the patron is a member of the rewards club program of the venue then as discussed above the system matches the mobile communication device with the patron and stores the patron s movement in a CRM database of the venue . Thus the amount of time spent at a slot machine or a blackjack table is stored in an account for the patron in the CRM database of the venue even without the patron swiping a rewards club card at the slot machine or blackjack table . The system determines from the probe requests of the mobile communication device of the patron that the patron is at a particularly area of the venue and based on those probe requests the system determines how much time the patron has spent at that area. This information is collected and stored in the CRM database of the venue .

As shown in B and C a system for measuring the quantity type transmission quality and visit data of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a venue can determine where on the venue property the patron spends time. The console application provides the visit data to a venue operator to better allocate resources and determine the preferences of patrons. A map of the venue is shown on a console application. A patron plays slots as shown in then has a drink at a bar as shown in and plays blackjack as shown in .

As discussed above the system identifies a MAC address on the mobile communication device of the patron of the venue . If the patron is a member of the rewards club program of the venue then as discussed above the system matches the mobile communication device with the patron and stores the patron s movement in a CRM database of the venue . Thus the amount of time spent at a slot machine bar or a blackjack table is stored in an account for the patron in the CRM database of the venue even without the patron swiping a rewards club card at the slot machine or blackjack table . The system determines from the probe requests of the mobile communication device of the patron that the patron is at a particularly area of the venue and based on those probe requests the system determines how much time the patron has spent at that area. This information is collected and stored in the CRM database of the venue .

As shown in a system for measuring the quantity type transmission quality and visit data of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a venue can determine a path that a particular patron traveled during a visit to the venue property. A map of a venue illustrates a path of a patron through the venue . As discussed above the system identifies a MAC address on the mobile communication device of the patron of the venue . If the patron is a member of the rewards club program of the venue then as discussed above the system matches the mobile communication device with the patron and stores the patron s movement in a CRM database of the venue . The system determines from the probe requests of the mobile communication device of the patron the path of the patron through the venue . Further the system may use sensors on the mobile communication device such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 016 185 filed on Sep. 2 2013 for a Method And System For Wayfinding which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This information is collected and stored in the CRM database of the venue

As shown in a system for measuring the quantity type transmission quality and visit data of a plurality of mobile communication devices within a venue can determine a patron s visit from venue point data accumulated in a rewards club program of the venue. As the patron plays blackjack venue points are accumulated by the patron and recorded in the CRM database of the venue. A table shows the point activity for the patron .

As discussed above the system identifies a MAC address on the mobile communication device of the patron of the venue . If the patron is a member of the rewards club program of the venue then as discussed above the system matches the mobile communication device with the patron and stores the patron s movement in a CRM database of the venue . Thus the amount of time spent at a blackjack table is stored in an account for the patron in the CRM database of the venue even without the patron swiping a rewards club card at the slot machine or blackjack table . The system determines from the probe requests of the mobile communication device of the patron that the patron is at a particularly area of the venue and based on those probe requests the system determines how much time the patron has spent at that area. Further the point data for the patron is collected and stored in the CRM database of the venue .

Thus the visit history of the patron to the venue is available on the console application to provide the operator of the venue with additional information of patrons of the venue.

The present invention may be utilized with a marketing system such as disclosed in Boyle et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 671 538 filed on Nov. 7 2012 for a Method And System For Personalized Venue Marketing which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The present invention may be utilized with a gaming system such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 769 376 filed on Feb. 13 2013 for a System And Method For Managing Games In A Mobile Virtual Casino which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The present invention may be utilized with a gaming system such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 756 591 filed on Jan. 31 2013 for a System And Method For Virtual Currency In A Virtual Casino which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The present invention may be utilized with a gaming system such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 789 686 filed on Mar. 8 2013 for a System And Method For Secure Play In A Mobile Virtual Casino which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with an anonymous loyalty program such as described in Boyle U.S. Pat. No. 8 463 645 for an Anonymous Rewards Club Program which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 693 403 for a Method And System For Detection And Correction of Wi Fi Login Failure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Greer et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 775 226 filed on Feb. 24 2013 for an Segmented Architecture Method And System which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 844 585 filed on Mar. 15 2013 for a Method And System For Freemium WiFi Service which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 843 627 filed on Mar. 15 2013 for a Method And System For Incentivizing On Site Participation In Games And Offers which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 974 040 filed on Aug. 22 2013 for a Method And System For Including Content In A WiFi Stream which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. Pat. No. 8 583 777 for a Method And System For Providing Real Time End User WiFi Quality Data which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 016 185 filed on Sep. 2 2013 for a Method And System For Wayfinding which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

