---

title: Method for sharing application
abstract: For sharing an application between mobile devices, an application share program is installed on mobile devices. The application share program is able to establish a link between at least one host mobile device and at least one client mobile device. A host mobile device shares a share session. An application of the share session is shared and installed on to the at least one client mobile device. And the application is uninstalled from the at least one client mobile device when the share session is terminated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531811&OS=09531811&RS=09531811
owner: ArcSoft Hangzhou Co., Ltd.
number: 09531811
owner_city: Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140305
---
The present invention relates to a method of sharing application for portable mobile devices and more particularly a method of sharing an application between a host mobile device and at least one client mobile device.

There are a growing number of users of portable mobile devices that may include mobile phones and tablets. Therefore a market for mobile applications is growing as well. A growing number of applications are being developed that may be of personal use or for business applications. Though the memories of mobile devices are considerably small compared to notebooks and personal computers and memory expansions are not available. Therefore users need to choose to install applications that may be used more frequently than others. This means that the mobile device is not able to install applications that may be preferred by the user but less frequently used than other applications. And in some cases may cause inconvenience to the user when circumstance for the need for a specific application that is not installed in the mobile device arises.

An embodiment of a method for sharing application is disclosed. The method for sharing application comprises installing and running an application share program on at least one host mobile device and at least one client mobile device establishing a link between the at least one host mobile device and the at least one client mobile device a host mobile device of the at least one host mobile device providing a share session to the at least one client mobile device to share an application of the share session and terminating the share session.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

For enhancing memory use for portable devices and convenience for accessing applications the present invention discloses a method for sharing an application. The mobile device used in the embodiments of the present invention may be a smart pad or a smart phone.

An application share program is installed on a mobile device. The mobile device can serve as a host mobile device or a client mobile device depending on the function selected. The mobile device can run the application share program in foreground of the mobile device when a user interface of the application share program is opened. And the application share program will keep on running in the background of the mobile device after the user interface of the application share program has been closed. The running of the application share program in the background allows client mobile devices to discover share sessions of the mobile device running the application share program acting as a host mobile device. And allow monitoring of status of the host mobile device and at least one client mobile device when a share session is in progress.

To establish a link between the host mobile device and the at least one client mobile device a wireless network is utilized.

Please refer to . illustrates an advertising diagram of the present invention. The advertising diagram includes a first host mobile device and a plurality of client mobile devices and . The host mobile device can create at least one share session and make a list of information about each of the at least one share session available to the plurality of client mobile devices and for discovery. The list of information may include but not limited to name of an application corresponding to a share session the memory size of the application and date which the share session was created.

Please refer to . illustrates a search diagram of the present invention. The search diagram includes a first client mobile device and a plurality of host mobile devices and . The first client mobile device is able to search share sessions that have been made available by the plurality of host mobile devices and . The first client mobile device sends out a search request. The plurality of host mobile devices and receives and responds to the search request by sending the first client mobile device a list of available share sessions created by the plurality of host mobile devices and .

To establish a share session between the first host mobile device and the first client mobile device the first host mobile device creates at least one share session and makes the at least one share session available for search to the first client mobile device .

When the first client mobile device sends a search request to the first host mobile device the first host mobile device responds to the search request by sending a list of the at least one share session available to the first client mobile device . From the list of the at least one share session a share session is selected by the first client mobile device . The first client mobile device then sends a session join request corresponding to the share session selected to the first host mobile device . The first host mobile device then receives the session join request and responds by sending a session permission command to establish the share session. And an installing package of an application corresponding to the share session selected is sent to the first client mobile device . The first client mobile device then install the application using the installing package received from the first host mobile device through the share session. After the first client mobile device has finished installing the application the first client mobile device and the first host mobile device can then simultaneously access the application. A second client mobile device may also establish the share session with the first host mobile device at the same time with the first client mobile device by performing the same actions as that of the first client mobile device .

After the share session is established between the first host mobile device and the first client mobile device the second client mobile device may also join the share session after the share session has been started. The second client mobile device sends a search request to the first host mobile device . The first host mobile device shall respond to the search request by sending the list of the at least one share session including the share session that has been established between the first host mobile device and the first client mobile device to the second client mobile device . The second client mobile device shall send a session join request corresponding to the share session to the first host mobile device . A session permission command is sent to the second client mobile device by the first host mobile device in response to the session join request to establish the share session between the first host mobile device the first client mobile device and the second client mobile device . And the installing package of the application corresponding to the share session is sent to the second client mobile device . The second client mobile device uses the installing package received from the first host mobile device to install the application. The first client mobile device the second client mobile device and the first host mobile device can then simultaneously access the application.

A host mobile device may host a share session for a plurality of client mobile devices. And the plurality of client mobile devices may be able to establish the share session with the host mobile device simultaneously. Each of the plurality of client mobile devices may also join the share session according to the time a session join request is sent and accepted by the host mobile device.

If a third client mobile device is within a perimeter covered by the wireless network used in the share session the third client mobile device may also be able to receive the list of the at least one share session of the first host mobile device after sending a search request. The third client mobile device may send a session join request to the first host mobile device . If the first host mobile device chooses to send a session reject command to the third client mobile device the third client mobile device will not be able to join the share session.

To terminate the share session between the first host mobile device and the first client mobile device either the first host mobile device can send a session quit request to the first client mobile device or the first client mobile device can send the session quit request to the first host mobile device . The share session is then terminated and the application can be uninstalled from the first client mobile device .

Please refer to . illustrates a flowchart of a first embodiment of the method of sharing application according to . The method comprises not limited to the following steps 

Step Install and run the application share program on the first host mobile device and the plurality of client mobile devices and 

Step The first host mobile device sends the list of the at least one share session to the plurality of client mobile devices and .

Please refer to . illustrates a flowchart of a second embodiment of the method of sharing application according to . The method comprises not limited to the following steps 

Step Install and run the application share program on the first client mobile device and the plurality of host mobile devices and 

Step The first client mobile device sends the search request to the plurality of host mobile devices and 

Step The first client mobile device receives the list of the plurality of share sessions created by the plurality of host mobile devices and .

Please refer to . illustrates a flowchart of a third embodiment of the method of sharing application. The method comprises not limited to the following steps 

Step Install and run the application share program on the first client mobile device and the first host mobile device 

Step The first client mobile device sends the session join request to the first host mobile device to ask for permission to join the share session from the at least one share session 

Step The first host mobile device sends the session permission command to the first client mobile device 

Step The first host mobile device sends the installing package of the application to the first client mobile device 

Step Start the share session by installing and running the application on the first client mobile device 

Step The share session is terminated and the application is uninstalled from the first client mobile device .

The second client mobile device may join the share session between the first client mobile device and the first host mobile device step to step may be repeated having the second client mobile device in place of the first client mobile device . In step the first host mobile device may send the session quit request to at least one client mobile device that has joined the session share. Instance of termination between the first host mobile device and each of the at least one client mobile device may be different from each other depending on the time the session quit request has been sent. Note that the session quit request may be sent by the host mobile device and or one of the client mobile devices.

Please refer to . illustrates a flowchart of a fourth embodiment of the method of sharing application. The method comprises not limited to the following steps 

Step Install and run the application share program on the third client mobile device and the first host mobile device 

Step The third client mobile device sends the session join request to the host mobile device to ask the first host mobile device for permission to join the share session 

Step The first host mobile device sends the session reject command to the third client mobile device .

The method of sharing application disclosed in the present invention may be used for different purposes. For personal applications a plurality of users may be able to share applications including games multimedia tools or organizing tools. The plurality of users is able to play a game application as long as a user from the plurality of users has the game application installed on a mobile device of the user. The mobile device of the user will then act as a host mobile device for a share session of the game application. The mobile device of other users shall act as a client mobile device. The game application shall install on to the client mobile device during the share session and may be uninstalled from the client mobile device when the share session has been terminated.

For business application a restaurant may provide an application in place of a menu to the customers and taking orders from the customers. The restaurant may provide a host mobile device that would create a share session for at least one customer having a mobile device. The mobile device of the at least one customer shall be a client mobile device for the share session. The share session may be terminated anytime the application is no longer needed. The application may be automatically uninstalled from the client mobile device when the share session has been terminated.

For another business application a business may advertise an application by doing a demonstration of an application supplied by the business using a share session from a host mobile device provided by the business. The share session for the application shall be made available to consumers through the use of a mobile device of each of the consumers the mobile device serving as a client mobile device. The application may be uninstalled from the client mobile device after the share session has been terminated.

The above mentioned scenarios are only examples to illustrate aspects of the present invention for clarity and not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

The method of sharing application disclosed allows a mobile device to act either as a host mobile device or a client mobile device. At least one client mobile device can search and select from at least one share session from at least one host mobile device. Each share session corresponds to an application. The at least one client mobile device sends a session join request to the host mobile device. The host mobile device can either accept or reject the session permission request. If the session join request is accepted by the host mobile device a session permission command and an installing package are sent to the at least one client mobile device. The application is then installed on the at least one client mobile device and can then be used by the host mobile device and the at least one client device at the same time. If the session permission request is rejected by the host mobile device the share session is then terminated.

To terminate a share session of an application a host mobile device or a client mobile device may send a session quit request respectively to the client mobile device or the host mobile device. After the share session is terminated the application may then be uninstalled from the client mobile device.

Since mobile devices are designed to be portable therefore mobile devices are not designed to have large memory capacity. The uninstalling of the application will allow the client mobile device to be able to use applications on circumstances that the application is needed. Limited memory of the mobile device is then not wasted on installation of seldom used or specific use applications.

Please refer to to further understand the communication between a host mobile device and a client mobile device. illustrates an exchange of commands between and within the host mobile device and the client mobile device . The host mobile device comprises a host application and a sharing application . The client mobile device comprises a client application and a sharing application . The sharing applications and are the same application installed in both the host mobile device and the client mobile device to facilitate the communication between the two devices. The host application and the sharing application may be launched. The host application may then create and enable a share session. The share session is then forwarded to the sharing application . While the host application is generating a share session the sharing application sends a command to discover available share session from the host mobile device . A basic channel setup between the host mobile device and the client mobile device is established. The sharing application sends a join command to the sharing application and the sharing application may then send an accept command to the sharing application . The share session is then established between the host mobile device and the client mobile device . The sharing application shall then send an installation package of the host application to the sharing application . The sharing application may then initiate the installation of the client application which is a copy of the host application . The host mobile device shall start the host application and the client mobile device shall start the client application . Data transmission between the host mobile device and the client mobile device is done during the share session. The client application may send a quit command to the sharing application to instruct the termination of the share session. The share application shall send a quit command to the share application . The host application shall also stop and get free from the share session. A session termination shall be established between the sharing application and the sharing application . And the share application shall uninstall the client application from the client mobile device .

Please refer to . illustrates architecture of a share application . The share application comprises a java layer and a native layer . The java layer comprises a share manager and a share service . The native layer comprises a share network and a share library . The share manager provides a discovery interface for a client mobile device to search for a host mobile device and a paring interface to accept join request from other client mobile devices. The share service runs in the background of the share application. The share service is used for discovery and monitoring of status and an inter process access for third party application based on the software development kit of the share application. The share network is the java native interface use for accessing share library. The share library is native libraries for providing basic function to the share network.

Please refer to . illustrates architecture of the share library . The share library comprises an agent that manages the lifecycle and provides application programming interface of the share application a host session that is created when a host application is to be shared on a share session a client session that is created when a client mobile device is to join a share session an app data channel that provides several channel that is used for communication between applications during a share session an internal data channel that provides channels for communication between a host mobile device and a client mobile device a connection manager that manages the connection between agents of the share application a channel manager that manages the channels a host session discoverer that discovers available share sessions a utility that provide utilities to the share application such as scheduler timer socket etc. a data bus that generates data bus among agents of the share application and platform abstraction layer that provides application programming interface to abstract the platform to port agents to multiple platform.

Please refer to . illustrates architecture of the share manager . The share manager comprises a share agent java network interface JNI to access the share library of the share application a service discovery module that provides a service discovery using Wi Fi Direct a share service that starts when the system boots and keeps running in the background and comprises of a native service and a remote service a settings used for application configuration management a paring activity sets up a network connection between mobile devices during share session and a discovery activity that pertains to the interface of the share application when launched and client mobile devices can see a list of available sessions within the network. The native service manages the device discovery and monitors the status of the share session. The remote service provides the function of sharing to a third party using Blinders.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

