---

title: Controllable seismic source
abstract: An apparatus for generating seismic waves includes a housing, a strike surface within the housing, and a hammer movably disposed within the housing. An actuator induces a striking motion in the hammer such that the hammer impacts the strike surface as part of the striking motion. The actuator is selectively adjustable to change characteristics of the striking motion and characteristics of seismic waves generated by the impact. The hammer may be modified to change the physical characteristics of the hammer, thereby changing characteristics of seismic waves generated by the hammer. The hammer may be disposed within a removable shock cavity, and the apparatus may include two hammers and two shock cavities positioned symmetrically about a center of the apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146328&OS=09146328&RS=09146328
owner: Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC
number: 09146328
owner_city: Kansas City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 829 730 filed Mar. 14 2013 entitled CONTROLLABLE SEISMIC SOURCE which is hereby incorporated by reference into the present application in its entirety.

The present invention was developed with support from the U.S. government under a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy Contract No. DE NA0000622. Accordingly the U.S. government has certain rights in the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to seismic sources for use in seismic surveying applications. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to seismic sources with selectively controlled operation configured to generate seismic waves with different characteristics.

Seismic surveying is a technique for generating information about an area below the earth s surface to identify subterranean structural features such as voids or changes in composition. Petroleum companies for example use seismic surveying to explore for oil and gas reserves. Seismic surveying involves introducing one or more seismic waves into the area to be surveyed and sensing seismic activity at one or more locations on and or below the surface of the earth in or near the surveyed area. The seismic waves may be generated for example by a controlled explosion or large hammer strike at the surface of the area to be imaged. One or more seismic sensors may be placed on and or below the earth s surface to detect seismic activity caused by the waves. Such seismic activity typically includes seismic energy reflected back to the earth s surface as the seismic waves encounter structural discontinuities in the surveyed area. Seismic surveying systems use the seismic activity information collected by the sensors to generate information about subterranean composition and structure and may express the information in the form of paper traces or display images.

Seismic waves may be classified as compressional waves or shear waves. Compressional waves sometimes referred to as primary waves pressure waves or P waves are generally longitudinal in that the particles in the medium through which the waves travel vibrate along or parallel to the direction of travel of the wave energy. Shear waves also referred to as secondary waves or S waves are generally transverse in that the particles in the medium through which the waves travel vibrate in a direction that is perpendicular or transverse to the direction of travel of the wave energy. Compressional waves and shear waves possess different characteristics. Compressional waves for example typically propagate at a higher speed than shear waves and are capable of propagating through fluid while shear waves are not.

The above section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

An apparatus for generating seismic waves constructed in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention comprises a housing a strike surface within the housing and a hammer movably disposed within the housing. An actuator induces a striking motion in the hammer wherein the hammer impacts the strike surface as part of the striking motion. The actuator is selectively adjustable to change characteristics of the striking motion and characteristics of seismic waves generated by the impact. During operation the apparatus is placed against a surface of the ground such that when the hammer impacts the strike surface energy is transferred from the hammer to the housing and from the housing into the ground to generate seismic waves. The strike surface may be normal to the surface of the ground so that the apparatus primarily or exclusively generates shear seismic waves.

An apparatus constructed in accordance with a related embodiment of the invention includes a first shock structure removably disposed within the housing and defining a first shock cavity a first hammer movably disposed within the first shock structure a second shock structure removably disposed within the housing and defining a second shock cavity and a second hammer movably disposed within the second shock structure. The actuator is operable to move the hammers and cause each of the hammers to strike an internal surface with a striking motion. The actuator is selectively adjustable to modify characteristics of the striking motion of each of the hammers including hammer speed and acceleration.

In another embodiment of the invention a method of generating seismic waves comprises placing an apparatus against a ground surface. The apparatus is configured to generate seismic waves and includes a shock cavity an actuator and a first hammer positioned within the shock cavity. The actuator is controlled to induce a first striking motion in the first hammer such that the first hammer strikes a wall of the shock cavity and generates a first seismic wave. The actuator is also controlled to induce a second striking motion in the first hammer such that the first hammer strikes the wall of the shock cavity and generates a second seismic wave wherein the second seismic wave is different than the first seismic wave.

An apparatus for generating seismic waves constructed in accordance with another embodiment of the invention comprises a housing a hammer movably disposed within the housing and an actuator for inducing continuous oscillating motion in the hammer wherein the oscillating motion of the hammer creates a seismic wave. The actuator is selectively adjustable to change characteristics of the oscillating motion and characteristics of seismic waves generated by the motion.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described in the detailed description below. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.

The drawing figures do not limit the present invention to the specific embodiments disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the invention.

The following detailed description of embodiments of the invention references the accompanying drawings. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the claims. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

In this description references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at least one embodiment of the technology. Separate references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments in this description do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and or except as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example a feature structure act etc. described in one embodiment may also be included in other embodiments but is not necessarily included. Thus the present technology can include a variety of combinations and or integrations of the embodiments described herein.

The particular size and proportions of various aspects of the invention discussed herein may vary from one embodiment of the invention to another without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore any discussion herein of the dimensions and proportions are exemplary and not limiting in nature.

Turning now to the drawing figures a seismic source apparatus constructed in accordance with embodiments of the invention is illustrated. The apparatus broadly includes a seismic shock assembly and a mounting assembly for securing the shock assembly to a vehicle . The vehicle may be a pickup truck van sport utility vehicle tractor or other vehicle capable of carrying and enabling the apparatus for its intended use. The apparatus may be mounted on a hitch receiver bumper custom made mounting system or other mounting mechanism capable of bearing the load associated with use of the apparatus . In some embodiments the apparatus is powered from the vehicle s power system such as for example a 12 volt DC vehicle power system or from a portable electric generator such as a 120 volt AC generator.

The apparatus may be used with a seismic surveying system including one or more seismic sensors . In some applications it may be desirable to use the apparatus with an array of seismic sensors attached to a rope or cable and secured to the vehicle such that as the vehicle pulls the sensor array the array trails the vehicle in a linear configuration in a manner similar to that illustrated in . The array of seismic sensors illustrated in for example includes sixteen geophones attached to a rope or cable and spaced approximately one meter apart in a linear configuration extending from the back of the vehicle where the apparatus may be mounted. The sensor array may include horizontal axis and or vertical axis sensors. It may be advantageous to attach the array to the vehicle such that it lies on a line corresponding to a center of the apparatus as explained below in greater detail.

With particular reference to the seismic shock assembly broadly includes a housing one or more shock structures a hammer moveably disposed within each of the one or more shock structures and a first actuator for inducing movement in the hammers . The illustrated embodiment includes two shock structures removably fixed in opposing ends of the housing . In some embodiments the shock structures are positioned and operate symmetrically about a center of the housing . Such a configuration may be advantageous for example where a seismic sensor array such as the array illustrated in is aligned with a center of the apparatus . In such a scenario the seismic waves generated by the shock structures are generated on both sides of and symmetrically about the sensor array . The shock structures may be identically configured therefore only the first shock structure will be described in detail herein with the understanding that the second shock structure is similarly configured.

The shock structure includes a plurality of walls that define an internal shock cavity in which the hammer operates. More specifically a bottom wall is part of both shock structures and supports the actuator . A first end wall proximate the actuator provides a strike surface and therefore is configured to absorb repeated blows from the hammer without compromising structural integrity. The first end wall may be for example two to four times as thick as the other walls of the shock assembly . A second end wall distal the actuator corresponds to an end of the cavity opposite the strike surface . A pair of side walls join the two end walls such that the walls and define the shock cavity . The size and shape of the shock cavity accommodates movement of the hammer as it goes through a striking motion wherein it impacts the strike surface .

The end walls support a pair of rails that extend from the first end wall to the second end wall and guide movement of the hammer as it reciprocates within the shock cavity . The rails are removably secured to the shock structure with collars enabling for example the hammer to be removed from the shock structure . A piston extends through the first end wall and is coupled with both the actuator and the hammer and allows the actuator to drive the hammer . In some embodiments one or more springs or similar elements not shown are interposed between the hammer and the piston to absorb the impact of the hammer against the strike surface and protect the hammer and the actuator from damage. In such embodiments a selectively removable retainer or similar element not shown may be used to rigidly couple the hammer with the piston to prevent the hammer from moving relative to the piston . The latter configuration may be desirable for example if the actuator drives the hammer in a reciprocating or vibrating motion without striking any surface of the shock structure .

As explained above the bottom wall may be a single monolithic element supporting both of the shock structures . Alternatively each of the shock structures may have a separate bottom wall to enable each shock structure to be removed from the housing separately from the other shock structure. Each of the end walls and side walls may be fixedly or removably attached to the bottom wall . Thus the shock structures may be removable from the housing as a single unit or may be separately removable from the housing . It may be desirable to remove one or both of the shock structures from the housing for example for repair or for replacement with another shock structure or structures presenting different physical characteristics that generate seismic waves with different characteristics.

The shock structure may be constructed of virtually any rigid material or combination of materials such as steel or other metal. The shock cavity may be between about six inches and about eighteen inches in length between about two inches and about eight inches in width and between about one inch and about four inches in depth.

The hammer is driven by the actuator to impart kinetic energy into the apparatus and the ground thus generating seismic waves in the ground. The actuator may impart a striking motion to the hammer wherein the hammer impacts the strike surface as a result of the striking motion. Alternatively the actuator may impart vibratory movement to the hammer wherein the hammer oscillates within the cavity but does not strike any portion of the shock structure . In that scenario acceleration and deceleration of the hammer generates seismic waves in the ground by transferring kinetic energy to the housing through the first actuator . Operation of the shock assembly is described in greater detail below.

The hammer includes a hammer body a first insert separable from the body and a second insert separable from the body . As used herein the inserts are separable from the body if they are configured to be separated from the body and replaced without altering or damaging the structure of the hammer . Each of the first insert and the second insert may be attached to the body of the hammer using bolts or similar fasteners. A metal strip provides a contact for the seismic survey system and may be secured to one of the inserts .

The removable inserts allow the user to change the physical characteristics of the hammer and consequently the characteristics of seismic waves generated by the hammer . Removing one or both of the inserts for example reduces the weight of the hammer which affects the acceleration and speed of the hammer and the amount of energy transferred from the hammer to the shock structure through the strike surface . Alternatively one or both of the inserts may be removed and replaced with different inserts bearing different physical properties such as weight that generate seismic waves with different properties.

The hammer includes through holes that engage the rails as the hammer moves within the cavity . The hammer is configured to be removable from the shock structure for repairs or replacement. The hammer is removed from the shock structure by removing the collars to allow the rails to be disengaged from the hammer and disengaging the hammer from the piston . Disengaging the hammer from the piston may involve for example removing a bolt or other fastener as well as one or more springs and or retainers described above. A hammer is mounted in the shock structure by reversing this process.

It will be appreciated that the configuration of the shock structure and the hammer allows users to modify the physical characteristics of the hammer and thus characteristics of seismic waves generated by the shock structure . Physical characteristics of the hammer may be altered by removing or replacing one or both of the inserts and the hammer may be replaced in its entirety by another hammer presenting different characteristics. Testing has determined for example that in some embodiments hammers made of denser heavier materials tend to generate seismic waves with lower frequency content and hammers made of less dense lighter materials generate seismic waves of higher frequencies. Hammers made of iron for example generated seismic waves with lower frequency content while hammers made of aluminum generated seismic waves with higher frequency content. Thus the shock structures and or the hammers may be selected from various available shock structures and hammers to meet the needs of a particular use or application.

As mentioned above the hammer may include a metal strip providing a contact for the seismic survey system . More particularly the strip may communicate a signal to the seismic survey system each time the hammer strikes the strike surface of the shock structure . The survey system may use the signal for example for timing operation of the sensors for timing operation of an imaging apparatus or both. While the metal strip provides a relatively simple and inexpensive trigger for the survey system other trigger devices and methods are within the ambit of the present invention. By way of example optical or inductive sensors may be used in place of or in addition to the metal strip .

The hammer may be virtually any size shape and configuration and may be constructed of any of various materials. In some embodiments the hammer weighs between about two pounds and about ten pounds and may particularly weigh for example about four pounds about five pounds or about six pounds.

The mounting assembly secures the apparatus to the vehicle and moves the seismic shock assembly between deployed and refracted positions. The mounting assembly broadly includes mounting hardware a pair of extension mechanisms for moving the shock assembly relative to the mounting assembly a pair of arms for stabilizing and guiding movement of the shock assembly relative to the mounting assembly and a second actuator for driving the extension mechanisms . In the illustrated embodiment the mounting hardware includes a metal tube that engages a hitch receiver or similar mechanism on the vehicle and locks in place in the hitch receiver in a manner similar to a standard tow hitch.

Each of the extension mechanisms includes pistons or other elements operable to extend and retract when driven by the second actuator . In some embodiments the second actuator is a pneumatic actuator using compressed air to drive pneumatic pistons in the extension mechanisms . The mounting assembly may apply substantial downward pressure such as between two hundred and one thousand pounds on the shock assembly during use. Therefore the mounting hardware extension mechanisms and other components of the mounting assembly are sufficiently strong to endure repeated application of such high pressure. The arms guide movement of the shock assembly while preventing lateral movement of the shock assembly relative to the apparatus and may include springs for biasing the shock assembly toward the refracted position.

When the shock assembly is in the deployed position as illustrated in it engages the ground such that the walls of the shock structures are normal to the surface of the ground. Because the strike surface is normal to the surface of the ground the impact of the hammer against the strike surface generates seismic shear waves in the ground. When the shock assembly is in the refracted position it is separated from the surface of the ground by a distance and the apparatus is supported entirely by the vehicle . The shock assembly may be placed in the retracted position when travelling to a testing location for example or when travelling between seismic surveys.

The mounting assembly may include any of various types of actuators including electric hydraulic or pneumatic actuators for driving operation of the extension mechanisms .

A controller manages operation of the mounting assembly and the shock assembly and may be housed in a console that includes one or more buttons switches displays or other user interface elements. In particular the controller directs operation of the first actuator and the second actuator . The controller may communicate with the mounting assembly and the shock assembly remotely via a wired or wireless connection. In some embodiments a user may hold the console and operate the apparatus from a remote position such as inside the vehicle .

The controller may include a digital integrated circuit such as for example a general use computer processor or a programmable logic device configured for operation with the circuit receiver. The controller may further include memory elements for storing data instructions or both used by the integrated circuit to implement the functionality of the controller . The functionality of the controller may be implemented by components housed in the console and or in another section of the apparatus such as in the shock assembly the mounting assembly or both.

In operation the apparatus is secured to the vehicle by for example coupling the mounting hardware to a hitch receiver. The apparatus may be connected to the vehicle s power system by connecting a power connector of the apparatus not shown to a corresponding connector on the vehicle that is located on or near the vehicle s bumper and thus is proximate the apparatus when the apparatus is attached to the vehicle .

The seismic sensor array may also be secured to the vehicle such as in the manner illustrated in . With the vehicle and the sensor array in position the mounting assembly is actuated to deploy the shock assembly in preparation for performing a seismic survey. Deploying the shock assembly may involve directing the second actuator to drive the extension mechanisms downward such that the shock assembly engages the ground. The second actuator applies sufficient downward pressure on the shock assembly such that the energy from the hammer strikes is transferred to the ground. Thus the shock assembly must generally be held against the ground with sufficient force that the shock assembly does not move relative to the ground when the hammers impact the shock structures . As explained above downward force of one thousand pounds or more on the shock assembly may be required to effectively transfer energy from the shock assembly to the ground.

When the shock assembly is deployed the user directs the shock assembly to generate one or more seismic waves by controlling the first actuator to move the hammers in a striking motion wherein the hammers impact strike surfaces of the shock structures . The first actuator may drive one of the hammers to generate a single strike may first drive one of the hammers to generate a strike and then drive the other of the hammers to generate a strike or may cause one or both of the hammers to repeatedly strike the shock structure or shock structures. Alternatively the controller may direct the first actuator to move one or both of the hammers in an oscillating motion without striking any surfaces of the shock assembly . In that scenario the acceleration and deceleration of one or both of the hammers transfers energy to the shock assembly and the ground as explained above. As used herein a hammer oscillates without striking a surface if it does not impact any surface with sufficient force to cause a detectable seismic disturbance.

While the seismic waves associated with hammer strikes include multiple frequency components see for example seismic waves generated by hammer oscillations generally include a single frequency component corresponding to the hammer oscillation frequency. Furthermore the seismic waves generated by hammer oscillations are continuous and can be manipulated by adjusting the oscillation frequency of the hammers. It may be desirable for example to conduct a seismic survey across a range of frequencies beginning with a low frequency and gradually increasing to a high frequency or vice versa. By way of example the apparatus may be operable to oscillate the hammers at a frequency of between 0 and 150 Hz to generate seismic waves at any frequency within that range.

In some implementations the hammers are operated to generate seismic waves that are identical in magnitude and frequency but are 180 out of phase. The seismic survey system may use the two signals to increase the integrity of the survey by combining the signals to identify and eliminate noise.

The controller may adjust operation of the first actuator to alter the characteristics of the striking motion of the hammers and to change the characteristics of the seismic waves resulting from the movement and or impact of the hammers . More particularly the controller may adjust operation of the actuator to increase or decrease the acceleration or speed of the hammers as well as the frequency of the hammer strikes. By way of example the rate of acceleration of the hammers may be within the range of from about 10 m secto about 50 m sec and may particularly be about 20 m sec about 25 m sec about 30 m sec about 35 m secor about 40 m sec. The maximum speed of the hammers and or the speed at which the hammers strike a surface of the shock structures may be from about 1 m sec to about 5 m sec and may particularly be about 2 m sec about 3 m sec or about 4 m sec.

The seismic survey system includes a controller that collects data from the sensors and from the metal strips processes the data and generates information about the subterranean area under survey. The generated information may be presented to a user via a user interface in the form of an image paper trace or other human readable form of expression.

It will also be appreciated that the apparatus improves upon the performance of a manual sledge hammer by generating uniform and repeatable seismic waves symmetrically about an linear sensor array such as the array . For any given deployment of the shock assembly for example each strike of the hammer and of the hammer will generate substantially identical seismic waves. By way of example the controller may use multiple data sets based on identical seismic waves to identify and ignore statistically outlying characteristics of the data.

The apparatus is well suited for use with the system to detect relatively small subterranean voids at relatively small depths. The apparatus could be used for example to detect tunnels created for human passage which may be less than five feet across and less than three hundred feet deep.

Although the invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiment illustrated in the attached drawing figures it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as recited in the claims. By way of example the shock cavity may be defined by structural elements integrally formed in the shock assembly housing rather than by removable shock structures.

