---

title: Apparatus for testing vapor emissions from materials
abstract: An apparatus comprising a dynamic vapor microchamber having a recessed area that accommodates a test material that includes chemical vapors emitted therefrom; an air inlet chamber that directs a flow of air towards the recessed area; at least one air flow wall adjacent to the recessed area and intersecting the flow of air, wherein the at least one air flow wall disrupts the air flow field as it flows towards the test material and produces a uniform and distributed laminar air flow field across a surface of the test material; a thermal controller under the recessed area that maintains a uniform temperature of the test material and the flow of air over the test material; and an air exhaust port that collects the vapors emitted from the test material. The apparatus may include a plurality of chambers arranged adjacent to one another.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09347860&OS=09347860&RS=09347860
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09347860
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140128
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 791 292 filed on Mar. 15 2013 the complete disclosure of which in its entirely is hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments herein generally relate to the measurement of chemical vapor emissions from materials and more particularly to the detection and measurement of very small chemical vapor emissions from materials.

Evaluating the emission of chemical vapors from materials is investigated for a wide range of materials and emitting chemicals. For instance measuring and characterizing vapor emissions over time is important for materials that are manufactured using various chemical treatments or processes such as plasticizers adhesives and polymerization. The nature of the material and reason for performing the emission measurement contributes to how the chemical vapor emission is measured. Conventional dynamic vapor chambers utilize a cylindrical geometry with impinging jet air flow to contain the material and emitting vapors. However the chamber geometry and air flow typically do not provide the controlled environment required to fully characterize the dynamic processes of vapor emissions for applications such as the contamination and decontamination of materials with for example chemical warfare agents. Accordingly it is desirable to have a new and improved apparatus for testing small vapor emissions from materials.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides an apparatus comprising a chamber having a recessed area that accommodates a test material wherein the test material includes vapors emitted therefrom an air inlet chamber that directs at flow of air towards the recessed area at least one air flow wall adjacent to the recessed area and intersecting the flow of air wherein the at least one air flow wall disrupts the air flow field as it flows towards the test material and produces a uniform and distributed laminar air flow field across a surface of the test material a thermal controller under the recessed area that maintains a uniform temperature of the test material and the flow of air over the test material and an air exhaust port that collects the vapors emitted from the test material. The thermal controller may comprise a thermal exchange liquid. The air volume in the chamber may comprise approximately 30 mL of air. The apparatus may further comprise a plurality of chambers arranged adjacent to one another. The chamber may comprise a lid that provides an air tight seal around the recessed area. The apparatus may further comprise a groove surrounding the recessed area and a sealing ring or gasket positioned within the groove and contacting the lid when the lid is pushed towards the recessed area. The apparatus may further comprise a pair of air flow walls positioned on opposite sides of the recessed area.

Another aspect of the embodiments herein provides a dynamic vapor microchamber comprising a section adapted to accommodate a test material an air inlet chamber that directs a flow of air towards the section an air flow wall proximate to the section and positioned to intersect the flow of air wherein the air flow wall controls the air flow field as it moves over the test material and produces a uniform and distributed laminar air flow field across a surface of the test material a thermal controller adjacent to the section that controls a temperature of the test material and the air over the test material and an air exhaust port that transmits vapors emitted from the test material. The thermal controller may comprise a thermal exchange liquid. The air volume in the microchamber may comprise approximately 30 mL of air. The dynamic vapor microchamber may further comprise a lid that provides an air tight seal around the section. The dynamic vapor microchamber may further comprise a groove surrounding the section and a sealing ring or gasket positioned within the groove and contacting the lid when the lid is directed towards the section. The dynamic vapor microchamber may further comprise a pair of air flow walls positioned on opposite sides of the section.

Another aspect of the embodiments herein provides a method of measuring vapor emissions from materials the method comprising positioning a test material including a chemical in a vapor microchamber having a recessed area that accommodates the test material directing a flow of air towards the test material controlling the flow of air moving over the test material by producing a uniform and distributed laminar air flow field across a surface of the test material controlling a temperature of the test material and the flow of air over the test material wherein the test material emits chemical vapors collecting the vapors emitted from the test material and determining vapor emission rates of the chemical from the material. The method may further comprise controlling the temperature using a thermal exchange liquid. The method may further comprise calculating vapor concentrations of the chemical. The method may further comprise arranging a plurality of the vapor microchambers adjacent to one another. The method may further comprise sealing the recessed area. The method may further comprise using an air flow wall to control the air flow field. The method may further comprise using a pair of air flow walls positioned on opposite sides of the recessed area to control the air flow field.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of was in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a dynamic vapor microchamber that enables the time resolved measurement of chemical vapor emissions from materials. The dynamic vapor microchamber allows for the control of all relevant aspects of the measurement of vapor emission. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The dynamic vapor chamber provided by the embodiments herein may be used for applications such as the characterization of contamination of materials the decontamination of chemicals from materials the development of chemically hardened paints or materials the characterization of chemical interactions with personal protective equipment materials etc. for example but is not limited to these applications. The internal volume of the dynamic vapor chamber is typically on the order of 1 10malthough other dimensions and configurations are possible in accordance with the embodiments herein.

One example application of the dynamic vapor microchamber is for materials that are manufactured with various chemical treatments or processes e.g. plasticizers adhesives and polymerization and the interest is to characterize the emission of various chemicals over a specified time period. Typically a sample of the material is placed in the recessed area of the microchamber and airflow is directed through the chamber enclosure as vapors are emitted from the material . Calculation procedures are used to determine vapor emission rates of the chemical from the material so that concentrations of the chemical can be predicted in other situations or environments. The predicted calculations are used to perform analyses such as risk assessments to determine the level of chemical exposure to people residing in the specified situation.

As mentioned above the dynamic vapor microchamber allows for the control of all relevant aspects of the measurement of vapor emission as illustrated in . The dynamic vapor microchamber is configured to control temperature using a thermal exchange liquid positioned under said recessed area and facilitates material geometries applicable to material vapor emission such as that used in contamination and decontamination testing of materials. The geometrical configuration of the dynamic vapor microchamber is designed to produce a distributed laminar air flow field across the surface of the test material through the use of an air flow wall to disrupt the impinging jet air flow denoted by the arrow in from the chamber air inlet . The air then flows across the material resting in the test material recessed area . The geometrical configuration of the dynamic vapor microchamber results in a very small air volume on the order of approximately 30 mL providing very high sensitivity to measure vapor emissions from the test material . The dynamic vapor microchamber is configured as an individual test unit however one or more test units may be constructed and used simultaneously as shown in .

The dynamic vapor microchamber is used by placing a material of interest in the dynamic vapor microchamber sealing the chamber lid and initiating air flow through the microchamber inlet . Vapor samples are collected from the exhaust port of the dynamic vapor microchamber . Vapor samples are quantified using various quantitative analytical techniques to enable the calculation of vapor concentrations and vapor emission rates of the test material . The temperature control approach facilitates uniform temperature of the test material and air flowing into the dynamic vapor microchamber . This mediates temperature gradients in the test chamber which may influence the experimental results.

The geometrical configuration of the dynamic vapor microchamber results in flow field that develops a uniform laminar boundary layer across the surface of the test material as compared to impinging jet configurations that provide non uniform boundary layers across the surface of the material . The boundary layer uniformity and air velocity at the surface of the material influence the measured vapor emission. The combination of these features provides as reproducible high sensitivity dynamic vapor microchamber that enables a reproducible robust and highly sensitive measurement of vapor emissions.

The preferred material of construction is stainless steel 316L due to its chemically inert characteristics. It is preferable but not required that the apparatus is constructed of any inert nonabsorptive material such as most metals e.g. steel aluminum or glass. The embodiments herein may be constructed of a single microchamber as in or in groups of multiple microchambers as in . The closure system e.g. closure lid is preferred but not required to provide an air tight seal to enclose the test material within the chamber . An o ring resting in an o ring groove further facilitates the air tight seal upon closure of the lid . The air wall may be any depth or width to ensure the impinging jet flow from the inlet is disrupted to a laminar flow across the material .

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the general concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

