---

title: Substituted pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimindines as CDK9 kinase inhibitors
abstract: 

wherein R, R, and Rare as defined in the specification, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The compounds may be used as agents in the treatment of diseases, including cancer. Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions, comprising one or more compounds of Formula (Ia).

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09346813&OS=09346813&RS=09346813
owner: AbbVie Inc.
number: 09346813
owner_city: North Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
Cyclin dependent kinases CDKs are serine threonine protein kinases whose activity depends on binding and activation by cyclin partners. These heterodimeric complexes can phosphorylate various substrates involved in the control of transcription and cell cycle progression in response to different stimuli. CDK8 and CDK9 have key roles in the control of transcription by RNA polymerase II. CDK9 responds specifically to several cytokines including tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 6 indicating that it might have special roles in the regulation of a variety of physiological processes especially immune responses inflammation cell activation and differentiation.

Deregulated CDK activity is a hallmark of human cancer and a variety of genetic and epigenetic events such as over expression of cyclins diminished levels of CDK inhibiting proteins or gain of function mutations in CDK have been described to cause increased activity of these enzymes and provide a selective growth advantage in tumor cells. CDK9 inhibition causes rapid depletion of short lived mRNA transcripts and their associated protein products. Many genes encoding proteins involved in cell growth proliferation and tumor development Myc Cyclin D1 and Mcl 1 are characterized by short lived mRNAs and proteins and hence the consequences of CDK9 inhibition include anti proliferative and pro apoptotic effects through loss of function at many cellular pathways. Tumor types that are dependent on labile pro survival proteins e.g. Mcl 1 which includes multiple myeloma CLL breast melanoma and pancreatic cancers as well as the MYC driven tumors multiple cancer types would be susceptible to CDK9 inhibition. CDK9 inhibitors might also be effective in combination with standard of care in tumors in which NF B is constitutively active and contributing to chemo resistance. This includes hematologic malignancies as well as solid tumors breast colorectal prostate melanoma and pancreatic . Thus CDK9 inhibition targets multiple cancer relevant pathways by inhibition of a single protein and thereby renders CDK9 as an attractive target for anti cancer therapy. Nature Reviews Cancer 2009 9 153 166 .

CDK9 inhibitors can also find therapeutic application in cardiology and virology as many viruses depend on the infected host for transcription of their genome. Cyclin dependent kinase 9 a key transcriptional regulator and potential drug target in oncology virology and cardiology. Trends in Pharmacol. Sci. 2009 29. 302 312 Pharmacological targeting of CDK9 in cardiac hypertrophy. Med Res. Rev. 2010 30 646 66 Novel HIV 1 therapeutics through targeting altered host cell pathways. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2009 9 1369 82 .

CDK9 inhibitors have also been reported as potential therapeutics for the treatment of chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain WO2008 049856 WO2009 047359 .

In view of the above there is a need in the art for small molecule therapeutics that can inhibit the activity of CDK9. The present invention fulfills at least this need.

In one aspect the present invention relates to compounds of Formula Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In one embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H and Ris phenyl wherein the Rphenyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H and Ris 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the R5 to 6 membered heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H and Ris 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the R4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H Ris phenyl wherein the Rphenyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR and R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with CN. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H Ris 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the R5 to 6 membered heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR and R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with CN. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H Ris 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the R4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR and R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with CN. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H and Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H and Ris heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more R and R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R C O NRR and OH. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris H Ris heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R and R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R C O NRR and OH.

In another aspect the present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another aspect the present invention relates to methods of treating cancer in a patient comprising administering to a patient suffering from a cancer a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In certain embodiments the cancer is selected from the group consisting of acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma Burkitt s lymphoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma dysplasias metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma gastric carcinoma germ cell testicular cancer gestational trophobalstic disease glioblastoma head and neck cancer heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer lymphangioendothelio sarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma peripheral T cell lymphoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma testicular cancer thyroid cancer Waldenstr m s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer and Wilms tumor. In certain embodiments the methods further comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

Unless otherwise defined herein scientific and technical terms used in connection with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear however in the event of any latent ambiguity definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. With reference to the use of the words comprise or comprises or comprising in this patent application including the claims Applicants note that unless the context requires otherwise those words are used on the basis and clear understanding that they are to be interpreted inclusively rather than exclusively and that Applicants intend each of those words to be so interpreted in construing this patent application including the claims below. For a variable that occurs more than one time in any substituent or in the compound of the invention or any other formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds which can be isolated in a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all combinations herein that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are drawn from left to right.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated radical of an alkane typically containing from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl iso amyl hexyl pentan 3 y 2 2 dimethylpropan 2 yl heptan 4 yl and 2 6 dimethylheptan 4 yl and the like.

The term C Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and C Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms.

The term O C Calkyl refers to an oxygen atom attached to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term O C Chaloalkyl refers to an oxygen atom attached to a haloalkyl substituent containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms.

The term C Calkyl O C Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms attached to an oxygen atom attached to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term alkylene alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated diradical of an alkane typically containing from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. The term C Calkylene refers to an alkylene substituent containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms.

The term alkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain radical of an alkene containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethenyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 propenyl 1 4 pentadienyl 1 4 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 butenyl and the like. The term C Calkenyl means an alkenyl group containing 2 5 carbon atoms.

The term alkynyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain radical of an alkyne containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethynyl 2 propynyl 3 propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl and the like. The term C Calkynyl means an alkynyl group of 2 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 or more carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A cycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. A cycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic cycloalkyls.

The term C Ccycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic radical of a monocyclic cycloalkane containing from 3 to 7 carbon ring atoms. Examples of monocyclic cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclopropanyl cyclobutyl cyclobutanyl cyclopentyl cyclopentanyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexyl cyclohexanyl and cycloheptyl.

The term cycloalkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 4 or more carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A cycloalkenyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 4 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 4 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkenyls include cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl. A cycloalkenyl may alternatively be polycyclic contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic cycloalkenyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic cycloalkenyls.

The term C Ccycloalkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a partially unsaturated monocylic cycloalkane radical containing from 5 to 7 carbon ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkenyls include cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl and cycloheptenyl.

The term heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a non aromatic saturated monocyclic or polycyclic heterocycloalkane radical having carbon atoms and 1 or more heteroatoms independently selected from S N or O wherein when two O atoms or one O atom and one S atom are present the two O atoms or one O atom and one S atom are not bonded to each other respectively. A heterocycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocycloalkyls include oxetanyl azetidinyl thietanyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl dihydrothienyl imidazolidinyl oxazolidinyl imidazolinyl isoxazolidinyl pyrrolidinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl 1 4 dithianyl hexahydropyrimidine morpholinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl trithianyl azepanyl 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1H azepinyl oxepanyl 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1H oxepinyl thiepanyl and 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1H thiepinyl azocanyl thiocanyl oxocanyl tetrahydro 2H thiopyranyl 1 1 dioxide and 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2H oxocinyl. A heterocycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocycloalkyls in which at least one ring is a heterocycloalkyl and the others are heterocycloalkyl or cycloalkyl rings.

The term heterocycloalkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a non aromatic partially unsaturated monocyclic or polycyclic heterocycloalkene radical having carbon atoms and 1 or more heteroatoms independently selected from S N or O wherein when two O atoms or one O atom and one S atom are present the two O atoms or one O atom and one S atom are not bonded to each other respectively. A heterocycloalkenyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocycloalkenyls include 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl and 4 5 dihydro 1H imidazolyl. A heterocycloalkenyl may alternatively be polycyclic contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocycloalkenyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocycloalkenyls in which at least one ring is a heterocycloalkenyl and the others are heterocycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl cycloalkenyl or cycloalkyl rings. Alternatively a polycyclic heterocycloalkenyl may consist of one or more heterocycloalkyl rings and one or more cycloalkenyl rings. Examples of polycyclic heterocycloalkenyls include 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 oct 2 enyl and 1 2 3 3a 4 6a hexahydrocyclopenta c pyrrolyl.

The term 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a non aromatic monocyclic radical having carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms independently selected from S N or O wherein when two O atoms or one O atom and one S atom are present the two O atoms or one O atom and one S atom are not bonded to each other respectively.

The term 4 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a 4 membered monocyclic radical having 3 carbon atoms and 1 heteroatom selected from the group consisting of 1 O 1 S and 1 N. Illustrative examples of 4 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyls include oxetanyl azetidinyl and thietanyl.

The term 5 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a 5 membered monocyclic radical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and from 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 1 O 1 S 1 N 2 N 3 N 1 S and 1 N 1 S and 2 N 1 O and 1 N and 1 O and 2 N. Illustrative examples of 5 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyls include tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl dihydrothienyl imidazolidinyl oxazolidinyl imidazolinyl isoxazolidinyl pyrrolidinyl 2 pyrrolinyl and 3 pyrrolinyl.

The term 6 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a 6 membered monocyclic radical having from 3 to 5 carbon atoms and from 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 1 O 2 O 3 O 1 S 2 S 3 S 1 N 2 N 3 N 1 S 1 O and 1 N 1 S and 1 N 1 S and 2 N 1 S and 1 O 1 S and 2 O 1 O and 1 N and 1 O and 2 N. Illustrative examples of 6 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyls include tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl 1 4 dithianyl hexahydropyrimidine morpholinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl and trithianyl.

The term 7 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a 7 membered monocyclic radical having from 5 or 6 carbon atoms and from 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 1 O 2 O 1 S 2 S 1 N 2 N 1 S 1 O and 1 N 1 S and 1 N 1 S and 2 N 1 S and 10 1 S and 2 O 1 O and 1 N and 1 O and 2 N. Illustrative examples of 7 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyls include azepanyl 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1H azepinyl oxepanyl 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1H oxepinyl thiepanyl and 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1H thiepinyl.

The term 8 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a 8 membered monocyclic radical having from 5 to 7 carbon atoms and from 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 1 O 2 O 3 O 1 S 2 S 3 S 1 N 2 N 3 N 1 S 1 O and 1 N 1 S and 1 N 1 S and 2 N 1 S and 1O 1 S and 2 O 1 O and 1 N and 1 O and 2 N. Illustrative examples of 8 membered monocyclic heterocycloalkyls include azocanyl thiocanyl oxocanyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2H oxocinyl etc.

The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms in the heterocycloalkyl rings may optionally be oxidized e.g. 1 1 dioxidotetrahydrothienyl 1 2 dioxido 1 2 thiazolidinyl 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholinyl and the nitrogen atoms may optionally be quarternized. Unless otherwise indicated the foregoing heterocycloalkyls can be C attached or N attached where such is possible and which results in the creation of a stable structure. For example piperidinyl can be piperidin 1 yl N attached or piperidin 4 yl C attached .

The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic hydrocarbon radical. Furthermore the term aryl includes polycyclic aryl groups such as bicyclic e.g. naphthyl. Typical aryl groups include phenyl and naphthyl. The term aryl also includes a 9 to 12 membered bicyclic aryl which is a ring structure formed by the fusion of a benzene ring to 1 a cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl e.g. indanyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro naphthalenyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydro 5H benzocycloheptenyl etc. 2 another benzene ring e.g. naphthalenyl wherein the fusion junctions are at adjacent carbons on the benzene ring or 3 a heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl e.g. benzo d 1 3 dioxolyl isoindolinyl .

The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means a monocyclic 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl or a bicyclic heteroaryl.

The term 5 membered heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means a 5 membered monocyclic aromatic ring radical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 1 O 1 S 1 N 2 N 3 N 4 N 1 S and 1 N 1 S and 2 N 1 O and 1 N and 1 O and 2 N. Illustrative examples of 5 membered heteroaryls include but are not limited to furanyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl 2 or 3 pyrrolyl thienyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl tetrazolyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl and triazolyl.

The term 6 membered heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means a 6 membered monocyclic aromatic ring radical having from 3 to 5 carbon atoms and from 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 1 N 2 N and 3 N. Illustrative examples of 6 membered heteroaryls include but are not limited to pyridinyl 2 3 or 4 pyridinyl pyrimidinyl 2 4 or 5 pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl 3 or 4 pyridazinyl 2 pyrazinyl and triazinyl.

The term bicyclic heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means a ring structure formed by the fusion of 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl to 1 an independently selected 5 membered heteroaryl 2 an independently selected 6 membered heteroaryl e.g. naphthyridinyl pteridinyl phthalazinyl purinyl etc. 3 a cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl 4 a heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl or 5 a benzene ring e.g. benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl 2H 1 benzopyranyl benzothiadiazine benzothiazinyl benzothiazolyl benzothiophenyl benzoxazolyl cinnolinyl furopyridinyl indolinyl indolizinyl indolyl or 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 indolyl 3H indolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl isoindolyl and isoquinolinyl wherein the fusion junctions are at adjacent ring atoms. The fusion junctions may be at nitrogen e.g. indolizine or carbon atoms in the 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl.

The term hydrogen alone or in combination with another term s means a hydrogen radical and may be depicted as H.

The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I .

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen radical is in the place of hydrogen radical on a carbon or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent in which at least one non hydrogen radical is in the place of a hydrogen radical on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro radical and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro radicals. It should be recognized that if there are more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen radical may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical. To illustrate further if an amino nitrogen is described as being optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals then a primary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals whereas a secondary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to only 1 non hydrogen radical. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by one two or three non hydrogen radicals. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical.

The prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl means an alkyl substituent in which at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl and 1 1 1 trifluoroethyl. It should be recognized that if a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

A prefix attached to a multi component substituent only applies to the first component. To illustrate the term alkylcycloalkyl contains two components alkyl and cycloalkyl. Thus the C C prefix on C C alkylcycloalkyl means that the alkyl component of the alkylcycloalkyl contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms the C C prefix does not describe the cycloalkyl component. To illustrate further the prefix halo on haloalkyloxyalkyl indicates that only the alkyloxy component of the alkyloxyalkyl substituent is substituted with one or more halogen radicals. If halogen substitution may alternatively or additionally occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as halogen substituted alkyloxyalkyl rather than haloalkyloxyalkyl. And finally if the halogen substitution may only occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as alkyloxyhaloalkyl. 

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of the compound being administered sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The subject is defined herein to include animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

Geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. Compounds of this invention may contain carbon carbon double bonds or carbon nitrogen double bonds in the E or Z configuration wherein the term E represents higher order substituents on opposite sides of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond and the term Z represents higher order substituents on the same side of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond as determined by the Cahn Ingold Prelog Priority Rules. The compounds of this invention may also exist as a mixture of E and Z isomers. Substituents around a cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl may also be designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Compounds of this invention may contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms in the R or S configuration in which the terms R and S are as defined by the IUPAC 1974 Recommendations for Section E Fundamental Stereochemistry Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 10. Compounds having asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms with equal amounts of R and S configurations are racemic at those carbon atoms. Atoms with an excess of one configuration over the other are assigned the configuration present in the higher amount preferably an excess of about 85 90 more preferably an excess of about 95 99 and still more preferably an excess greater than about 99 . Accordingly this invention includes racemic mixtures relative and absolute stereoisomers and mixtures of relative and absolute stereoisomers.

Compounds of the invention can exist in isotope labeled or enriched form containing one or more atoms having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number most abundantly found in nature. Isotopes can be radioactive or non radioactive isotopes. Isotopes of atoms such as hydrogen carbon phosphorous sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine include but are not limited to H H C C N O P S F Cl and I. Compounds that contain other isotopes of these and or other atoms are within the scope of this invention.

In another embodiment the isotope labeled compounds contain deuterium H tritium H or C isotopes. Isotope labeled compounds of this invention can be prepared by the general methods well known to persons having ordinary skill in the art. Such isotope labeled compounds can be conveniently prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Examples disclosed herein and Schemes by substituting a readily available isotope labeled reagent for a non labeled reagent. In some instances compounds may be treated with isotope labeled reagents to exchange a normal atom with its isotope for example hydrogen for deuterium can be exchanged by the action of a deuteric acid such as DSO DO. In addition to the above relevant procedures and intermediates are disclosed for instance in Lizondo J et al. 21 11 1116 1996 Brickner S J et al. 39 3 673 1996 Mallesham B et al. 5 7 963 2003 PCT publications WO1997010223 WO2005099353 WO1995007271 WO2006008754 U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 538 189 7 534 814 7 531 685 7 528 131 7 521 421 7 514 068 7 511 013 and US Patent Application Publication Nos. 20090137457 20090131485 20090131363 20090118238 20090111840 20090105338 20090105307 20090105147 20090093422 20090088416 and 20090082471 the methods are hereby incorporated by reference.

The isotope labeled compounds of the invention may be used as standards to determine the effectiveness of CDK9 inhibitors in binding assays. Isotope containing compounds have been used in pharmaceutical research to investigate the in vivo metabolic fate of the compounds by evaluation of the mechanism of action and metabolic pathway of the nonisotope labeled parent compound Blake et al. 64 3 367 391 1975 . Such metabolic studies are important in the design of safe effective therapeutic drugs either because the in vivo active compound administered to the patient or because the metabolites produced from the parent compound prove to be toxic or carcinogenic Foster et al. Advances in Drug Research Vol. 14 pp. 2 36 Academic press London 1985 Kato et al. 36 10 927 932 1995 Kushner et al. 77 79 88 1999 .

In addition non radio active isotope containing drugs such as deuterated drugs called heavy drugs can be used for the treatment of diseases and conditions related to CDK9 activity. Increasing the amount of an isotope present in a compound above its natural abundance is called enrichment. Examples of the amount of enrichment include from about 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 16 21 25 29 33 37 42 46 50 54 58 63 67 71 75 79 84 88 92 96 to about 100 mol . Replacement of up to about 15 of normal atom with a heavy isotope has been effected and maintained for a period of days to weeks in mammals including rodents and dogs with minimal observed adverse effects Czajka D M and Finkel A J Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 1960 84 770 Thomson J F Ann. New York Acad. Sci 1960 84 736 Czakja D M et al. Am. J. Physiol. 1961 201 357 . Acute replacement of as high as 15 23 in human fluids with deuterium was found not to cause toxicity Blagojevic N et al. in Dosimetry Treatment Planning for Neutron Capture Therapy Zamenhof R Solares G and Harling O Eds. 1994. Advanced Medical Publishing Madison Wis. pp. 125 134 Diabetes Metab. 23 251 1997 .

Stable isotope labeling of a drug can alter its physico chemical properties such as pKa and lipid solubility. These effects and alterations can affect the pharmacodynamic response of the drug molecule if the isotopic substitution affects a region involved in a ligand receptor interaction. While some of the physical properties of a stable isotope labeled molecule are different from those of the unlabeled one the chemical and biological properties are the same with one important exception because of the increased mass of the heavy isotope any bond involving the heavy isotope and another atom will be stronger than the same bond between the light isotope and that atom. Accordingly the incorporation of an isotope at a site of metabolism or enzymatic transformation will slow said reactions potentially altering the pharmacokinetic profile or efficacy relative to the non isotopic compound.

Suitable groups for R R R R and Rin compounds of Formula I R R and Rin compounds of Formula Ia Rand Rin compounds of Formula IIa and R R R R R in compounds of Formula IIIa are independently selected. The described embodiments of the present invention may be combined. Such combination is contemplated and within the scope of the present invention. For example it is contemplated that embodiments for any of R R and Rin compounds of Formula Ia can be combined with embodiments defined for any other of R R and Rin compounds of Formula Ia .

In one aspect the present invention relates to compounds of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of H SO C Calkyl C Calkyl which may be optionally substituted with one or hydroxyls C Chaloalkyl C O C Calkyl C O C Ccycloalkyl C O C Calkylene OH SO C Ccycloalkyl C O 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl may be substituted with the following one oxo or one to three independently chosen C Calkyl C O C Calkylene O C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl C O NH C Calkenyl C Ccycloalkyl which may be substituted with one or two hydroxyls C Calkylene phenyl wherein the phenyl may be substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo CN C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl and NHC O C Calkyl C Calkylene pyridinyl wherein the pyridinyl may be substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo CN C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl and NHC O C Calkyl SO 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and SO C Chaloalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris halo and Ris O C Calkyl. In certain embodiments Ris fluoro and Ris O methyl. In certain embodiments Ris NH C Calkyene phenyl NH C Calkyene pyridinyl or NH C Calkyene tetrahydrofuranyl wherein the phenyl pyridinyl or tetrahydrofuranyl may be substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of CN C Calkyl or halo and Ris halo. In certain embodiments Ris NH C alkyene phenyl and Ris fluoro. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of H SO C Calkyl C Calkyl which may be optionally substituted with one or hydroxyls C O C Calkyl C O C Calkylene OH C O NH C Calkyl C Calkylene phenyl wherein the phenyl may be substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo CN C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl and NHC O C Calkyl C Calkylene pyridinyl wherein the pyridinyl may be substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo CN C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl and NHC O C Calkyl SO 5 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and SO C Chaloalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of H SO methyl methyl C O CH C O CHOH C O NHCH CHCH OH CHOH and CH phenyl NHC O CH. In certain embodiments Ris NH C alkyene phenyl and Ris fluoro or Ris fluoro and Ris O methyl. In certain embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of H SO methyl methyl C O CH C O CHOH C O NHCH CHCH OH CHOH and CH phenyl NHC O CH. In certain embodiments the dashed bond is a single bond. In certain embodiments the dashed bond is a double bond.

In one aspect the present invention relates to compounds of Formula Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In one embodiment of Formula Ia Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo CN and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris phenyl wherein the Rphenyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the R5 to 6 membered heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the R4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR.

In one embodiment of Formula Ia R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of CN C Calkyl halo OH OR NH NHR NRR C O NH C O NHR C O NRR SONH SONHR SONRR C O OH and C O OR. In another one embodiment of Formula Ia R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with CN.

In one embodiment of Formula Ia Ris selected from the group consisting of cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris selected from the group consisting of cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris cycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R.

In one embodiment of Formula Ia R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONH SONHR SONRR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SOR C O R C O OR NH NHR NRR NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O NRR NRC O NHR NRC O NRR C O NH C O NHR C O NRR SONH SONHR SONRR C O OH OH CN and halo. In another embodiment of Formula Ia R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R C O NRR and OH.

In one embodiment of Formula Ia Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C Calkyl NO CN F Cl Br and I. In another embodiment of Formula Ia Ris hydrogen.

In one embodiment of Formula Ia R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Calkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN and NH wherein the Raryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN NH NHSOR NHC O R C O R C O OR and NHC O OR. In another embodiment of Formula Ia R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl is optionally substituted with one or more C O OH wherein the Raryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN NH NHSOR NHC O R C O OR and NHC O OR.

In one embodiment of Formula Ia R R R R R R R R R R R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the R R R R R R R R R R R R and RCalkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl O OH C O OR OR and C O OH and R at each occurrence is C Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula Ia R R R R R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the R R R R R R and RC Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl O OH C O OR OR and C O OH and R at each occurrence is C Calkyl.

In one aspect the present invention relates to compounds of Formula IIa or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In one embodiment of Formula IIa Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo CN and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris phenyl wherein the Rphenyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the R5 to 6 membered heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the R4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo and NHR.

In one embodiment of Formula IIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of CN C Calkyl halo OH OR NH NHR NRR C O NH C O NHR C O NRR SONH SONHR SONRR C O OH and C O OR. In another one embodiment of Formula IIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with CN.

In one embodiment of Formula IIa Ris selected from the group consisting of cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris selected from the group consisting of cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris cycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIa Ris heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R.

In one embodiment of Formula IIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONH SONHR SONRR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SOR C O R C O OR NH NHR NRR NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O NRR NC O NHR NRC O NRR C O NH C O NHR C O NRR SONH SONHR SONRR C O OH OH CN and halo. In another embodiment of Formula IIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R C O NRR and OH.

In one embodiment of Formula IIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Calkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN and NH wherein the Raryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN NH NHSOR NHC O R C O R C O OR and NHC O OR. In another embodiment of Formula IIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl is optionally substituted with one or more C O OH wherein the Raryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN NH NHSOR NHC O R C O OR and NHC O OR.

In one embodiment of Formula IIa R R R R R R R R R R R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the R R R R R R R R R R R R and RC Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl O OH C O OR OR and C O OH and R at each occurrence is C Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula IIa R R R R R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the R R R R R R and RCalkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl O OH C O OR OR and C O OH and R at each occurrence is C Calkyl.

In one aspect the present invention relates to compounds of Formula IIIa or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In one embodiment of Formula IIIa R R R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H R OR NHSOR halo CN and NHR. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa at least one of R R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of R OR NHSOR halo CN and NHR and the remainder are H. In another one embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris independently selected from the group consisting of H OR and halo CN and NHR Ris independently selected selected from the group consisting of H R OR NHSOR halo and NHR Ris independently selected from the group consisting of H and halo Ris independently selected selected from the group consisting of H OR and halo and Ris independently selected from the group consisting of H R OR and halo. In another one embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris H Ris halo Ris H Ris H and Ris OR. In another one embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris H Ris F Ris H Ris H and Ris OCH.

In one embodiment of Formula IIIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of CN C Calkyl halo OH OR NH NHR NRR C O NH C O NHR C O NRR SONH SONHR SONRR C O OH and C O OR. In another one embodiment of Formula IIIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C C haloalkyl O C C haloalkyl C C alkyl C Calkylene phenyl C Calkylene 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and C Calkylene 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rphenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl rings are optionally substituted with CN.

In one embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris selected from the group consisting of cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris selected from the group consisting of cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl and heterocycloalkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris cycloalkenyl wherein the Rcycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa Ris heterocycloalkenyl wherein the Rheterocycloalkenyl is optionally substituted with one or more R.

In one embodiment of Formula IIIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONH SONHR SONRR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkenyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R OR SOR C O R C O OR NH NHR NRR NHC O R NRC O R NHS O R NRS O R NHC O NH NHC O NHR NHC O NRR NHC O NRR NRC O NRR C O NH C O NHR C O NRR SONH SONHR SONRR C O OH OH CN and halo. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo NHR SOR SONHC O OR C O R C O OR C O OH C O NHR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of R C O NRR and OH.

In one embodiment of Formula IIIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl and C Calkenyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN and NH wherein the Raryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN NH NHSOR NHC O R C O R C O OR and NHC O OR. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the RC Calkyl is optionally substituted with one or more C O OH wherein the Raryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo C C haloalkyl C O OH CN NH NHSOR NHC O R C O OR and NHC O OR.

In one embodiment of Formula IIIa R R R R R R R R R R R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the R R R R R R R R R R R R and RCalkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl aryl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl O OH C O OR OR and C O OH and R at each occurrence is C Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula IIIa R R R R R R and R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl wherein the R R R R R R and RC Calkyl C C haloalkyl C Calkenyl 4 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and C Ccycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl O OH C O OR OR and C O OH and R at each occurrence is C Calkyl.

As shown in Scheme 1 compounds of formula 1 wherein Xis an appropriate halide or triflate can be reacted with tert butyl 4 ethynylpiperidine 1 carboxylate in the presence of copper I iodide a base such as but not limited to triethylamine and a catalyst such as but not limited to bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride to provide compounds of formula 2 . The reaction is typically performed at ambient temperature in a solvent such as but not limited to N N dimethylformamide. Compounds of formula 3 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 2 with a base such as but not limited to potassium tert butoxide in the presence of 18 crown 6. The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to toluene under a nitrogen atmosphere at an elevated temperature e.g. 65 C. . Compounds of formula 3 can be reacted with compounds of formula 4 wherein R R R R and Rare as described herein under Suzuki coupling reaction conditions N. Miyama and A. Suzuki Chem. Rev. 1995 95 2457 2483 J. Organomet. Chem. 1999 576 147 148 to provide compounds of formula 5 . For example the coupling reaction may be conducted in the presence of a palladium catalyst and a base and optionally in the presence of a ligand and in a suitable solvent at elevated temperature about 80 C. to about 150 C. . The reaction may be facilitated by microwave irradiation. Examples of the palladium catalyst include but are not limited to tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride and palladium II acetate. Examples of suitable bases that may be employed include but are not limited to carbonates or phosphates of sodium potassium and cesium acetates of sodium or potassium and cesium fluoride. Examples of suitable ligands include but are not limited to 2 dicyclohexylphosphino biphenyl 1 3 5 7 tetramethyl 6 phenyl 2 4 8 trioxa 6 phosphaadamante 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl X phos and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphanyl ferrocene. Non limiting examples of suitable solvent include methanol ethanol dimethoxyethane N N dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide dioxane tetrahydropyfuran and water or mixtures thereof. Compounds of formula 6 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa can be prepared by deprotecting compounds of formula 5 under conditions described herein e.g. with an acid such as hydrochloric acid in a solvent such as dioxane ethanol or ethyl acetate or trifluoroacetic acid in a solvent such as dichloromethane .

Compounds of formula 9 wherein Xis a suitable halide or triflate can be treated with a strong base such as but not limited to sodium hydride followed by reaction with compounds of formula 10 wherein Ar is a suitable aryl group to provide compounds of formula 11 . The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to N N dimethylformamide at low temperature e.g. 0 C. . Compounds of formula 13 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 11 with compounds of formula 4 under Suzuki Coupling reaction conditions as described above in Scheme 1. Compounds of formula 14 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 13 with a strong base such as but not limited to lithium diisopropylamide followed by reaction with iodide. The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to tetrahydrofuran at low temperature e.g. 78 C. . tert Butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate can be reacted with compounds of formula 14 under Suzuki Coupling reaction conditions as described above in Scheme 1 to provide compounds of formula 15 . Compounds of formula 16 can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 15 with a base such as but not limited to sodium hydroxide. The reaction is typically performed in a solvent such as but not limited to dioxane at an elevated temperature e.g. 100 C. . Compounds of formula 17 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa can be prepared by deprotecting compounds of formula 16 under conditions described herein e.g. with an acid such as hydrochloric acid in a solvent such as dioxane ethanol or ethyl acetate or trifluoroacetic acid in a solvent such as dichloromethane .

Compounds of formula 21 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa wherein Ris as described herein for substituents on the RC alkyl and indicates a single or double bond can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 18 wherein R R R R and Rare as described herein with compounds of formula 19 or 20 under appropriate alkylation or reductive amination conditions. Compounds of formula 23 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa and wherein Ris as described herein for Formula IIIa can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 18 with compounds of formula 22 under appropriate urea formation conditions. Compounds of formula 25 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa and wherein Ris as described herein for Formula IIIa can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 18 with compounds of formula 24 under appropriate sulfonamidation conditions. Compounds of formula 28 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa and wherein Ris as described herein for Formula IIIa can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 18 with compounds of formula 26 or formula 27 under appropriate acylation conditions. Compounds of formula 30 which are representative of compounds of Formula IIIa can be prepared by reacting compounds of formula 18 with compounds of formula 29 under appropriate reductive amination conditions.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts have been described in S. M. Berge et al. J. Pharmaceutical Sciences 1977 66 1 19.

Compounds of formula I may contain either a basic or an acidic functionality or both and can be converted to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt when desired by using a suitable acid or base. The salts may be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds of the invention.

Examples of acid addition salts include but are not limited to acetate adipate alginate citrate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate fumarate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethansulfonate isothionate lactate malate maleate methanesulfonate nicotinate 2 naphthalenesulfonate oxalate palmitoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate propionate succinate tartrate thiocyanate phosphate glutamate bicarbonate p toluenesulfonate and undecanoate. Also the basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with such agents as lower alkyl halides such as but not limited to methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides such as but not limited to decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others. Water or oil soluble or dispersible products are thereby obtained. Examples of acids which may be employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include such inorganic acids as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid and such organic acids as acetic acid fumaric acid maleic acid 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid succinic acid and citric acid.

Basic addition salts may be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of compounds of this invention by reacting a carboxylic acid containing moiety with a suitable base such as but not limited to the hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of a pharmaceutically acceptable metal cation or with ammonia or an organic primary secondary or tertiary amine. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to cations based on alkali metals or alkaline earth metals such as but not limited to lithium sodium potassium calcium magnesium and aluminum salts and the like and nontoxic quaternary ammonia and amine cations including ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine diethylamine ethylamine and the like. Other examples of organic amines useful for the formation of base addition salts include ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperidine piperazine and the like.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or prodrug as used herein represents those prodrugs of the compounds of the present invention which are within the scope of sound medical judgement suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and effective for their intended use.

The present invention contemplates compounds of formula I formed by synthetic means or formed by in vivo biotransformation of a prodrug.

Compounds described herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms such as hemi hydrates. In general the solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water and ethanol among others are equivalent to the unsolvated forms for the purposes of the invention.

This invention also provides for pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient therefor. The phrase pharmaceutical composition refers to a composition suitable for administration in medical or veterinary use.

The pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a compound of formula I alone or in combination with a second active pharmaceutical agent may be administered to the subjects orally rectally parenterally intracisternally intravaginally intraperitoneally topically as by powders ointments or drops bucally or as an oral or nasal spray. The term parenterally as used herein refers to modes of administration which include intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intrasternal subcutaneous and intraarticular injection and infusion.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a non toxic inert solid semi solid or liquid filler diluent encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sugars such as but not limited to lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as but not limited to corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as but not limited to sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc excipients such as but not limited to cocoa butter and suppository waxes oils such as but not limited to peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such a propylene glycol esters such as but not limited to ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents such as but not limited to magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide alginic acid pyrogen free water isotonic saline Ringer s solution ethyl alcohol and phosphate buffer solutions as well as other non toxic compatible lubricants such as but not limited to sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents releasing agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the composition according to the judgment of the formulator.

Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral injection comprise pharmaceutically acceptable sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions as well as sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers diluents solvents or vehicles include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like vegetable oils such as olive oil injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate and suitable mixtures thereof. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In some cases in order to prolong the effect of the drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material with poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form may be accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the drug in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending upon the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissues.

The injectable formulations can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable medium just prior to use.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In certain embodiments solid dosage forms may contain from 1 to 95 w w of a compound of formula I. In certain embodiments the compound of formula I may be present in the solid dosage form in a range of from 5 to 70 w w . In such solid dosage forms the active compound may be mixed with at least one inert pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or a fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid b binders such as carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose and acacia c humectants such as glycerol d disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate e solution retarding agents such as paraffin f absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds g wetting agents such as cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate h absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay and i lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage form may also comprise buffering agents.

The pharmaceutical composition may be a unit dosage form. In such form the preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active component. The unit dosage form can be a packaged preparation the package containing discrete quantities of preparation such as packeted tablets capsules and powders in vials or ampules. Also the unit dosage form can be a capsule tablet cachet or lozenge itself or it can be the appropriate number of any of these in packaged form. The quantity of active component in a unit dose preparation may be varied or adjusted from 0.1 mg to 1000 mg from 1 mg to 100 mg or from 1 to 95 w w of a unit dose according to the particular application and the potency of the active component. The composition can if desired also contain other compatible therapeutic agents.

The dose to be administered to a subject may be determined by the efficacy of the particular compound employed and the condition of the subject as well as the body weight or surface area of the subject to be treated. The size of the dose also will be determined by the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that accompany the administration of a particular compound in a particular subject. In determining the effective amount of the compound to be administered in the treatment or prophylaxis of the disorder being treated the physician can evaluate factors such as the circulating plasma levels of the compound compound toxicities and or the progression of the disease etc. In general the dose equivalent of a compound is from about 1 g kg to 100 mg kg for a typical subject.

For administration compounds of the formula I can be administered at a rate determined by factors that can include but are not limited to the LDof the compound the pharmacokinetic profile of the compound contraindicated drugs and the side effects of the compound at various concentrations as applied to the mass and overall health of the subject. Administration can be accomplished via single or divided doses.

The compounds utilized in the pharmaceutical method of the invention can be administered at the initial dosage of about 0.001 mg kg to about 100 mg kg daily. In certain embodiments the daily dose range is from about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg. The dosages however may be varied depending upon the requirements of the subject the severity of the condition being treated and the compound being employed. Determination of the proper dosage for a particular situation is within the skill of the practitioner. Treatment may be initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under circumstances is reached. For convenience the total daily dosage may be divided and administered in portions during the day if desired.

Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such carriers as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

The solid dosage forms of tablets dragees capsules pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may optionally contain opacifying agents and may also be of a composition such that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain part of the intestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes.

The active compounds can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above mentioned carriers.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active compounds the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol dimethyl formamide oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

Besides inert diluents the oral compositions may also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compounds may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Compositions for rectal or vaginal administration are preferably suppositories which can be prepared by mixing the compounds of this invention with suitable non irritating carriers or carriers such as cocoa butter polyethylene glycol or a suppository wax which are solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.

Compounds of formula I may also be administered in the form of liposomes. Liposomes generally may be derived from phospholipids or other lipid substances. Liposomes are formed by mono or multi lamellar hydrated liquid crystals which are dispersed in an aqueous medium. Any non toxic physiologically acceptable and metabolizable lipid capable of forming liposomes can be used. The present compositions in liposome form may contain in addition to a compound of formula I stabilizers preservatives excipients and the like. Examples of lipids include but are not limited to natural and synthetic phospholipids and phosphatidyl cholines lecithins used separately or together.

Methods to form liposomes have been described see example Prescott Ed. Methods in Cell Biology Volume XIV Academic Press New York N.Y. 1976 p. 33 et seq.

Dosage forms for topical administration of a compound described herein include powders sprays ointments and inhalants. The active compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any needed preservatives buffers or propellants which may be required. Opthalmic formulations eye ointments powders and solutions are also contemplated as being within the scope of this invention.

The compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be administered to a subject suffering from a CDK9 mediated disorder or condition. A CDK9 mediated disorder or condition is characterized by the participation of one or more CDK9 kinases in the inception manifestation of one or more symptoms or disease markers severity or progression of a disorder or condition. An example of a CDK9 mediated disorder or condition is cancer including cancers such as not limited to acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer including estrogen receptor positive breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma Burkitt s lymphoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma gastric carcinoma germ cell testicular cancer gestational trophobalstic disease glioblastoma head and neck cancer heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer including small cell lung cancer and non small cell lung cancer lymphangioendothelio sarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma lymphoma including diffuse large B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma Hodgkin s lymphoma and non Hodgkin s lymphoma malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma peripheral T cell lymphoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer including hormone insensitive refractory prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma testicular cancer including germ cell testicular cancer thyroid cancer Waldenstr m s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer Wilms tumor and the like.

The term administering or administered refers to the method of contacting a compound with a subject. Thus the compounds of formula I can be administered by injection that is intravenously intramuscularly intracutaneously subcutaneously intraduodenally parentally or intraperitoneally. In certain embodiments a compound of formula I may be administered orally. Also the compounds described herein can be administered by inhalation for example intranasally. Additionally the compounds of formula I can be administered transdermally topically via implantation transdermally topically and via implantation. In certain embodiments the compounds of the formula I may be delivered orally. The compounds can also be delivered rectally bucally intravaginally ocularly andially or by insufflation. CDK9 mediated disorders and conditions can be treated prophylactically acutely and chronically using compounds of formula I depending on the nature of the disorder or condition. Typically the host or subject in each of these methods is human although other mammals can also benefit from the administration of a compound of formula I.

The compounds of formula I can be co administered to a subject. The term co administered means the administration of two or more different pharmaceutical agents or treatments e.g. radiation treatment that are administered to a subject by combination in the same pharmaceutical composition or separate pharmaceutical compositions. Thus co administration involves administration at the same time of a single pharmaceutical composition comprising two or more pharmaceutical agents or administration of two or more different compositions to the same subject at the same or different times.

The compounds of the invention can be co administered with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more agents to treat a cancer where examples of the agents include such as radiation alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives antivirals aurora kinase inhibitors apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors activators of death receptor pathway Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies antibody drug conjugates biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVDs dual variable domain antibodies leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAPs intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors kinesin inhibitors Jak2 inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors phosphoinositide 3 kinase bromodomain inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors etinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNAs topoisomerase inhibitors ubiquitin ligase inhibitors and the like and in combination with one or more of these agents.

BiTE antibodies are bi specific antibodies that direct T cells to attack cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Examples of BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like. Without being limited by theory one of the mechanisms by which T cells elicit apoptosis of the target cancer cell is by exocytosis of cytolytic granule components which include perforin and granzyme B. In this regard Bcl 2 has been shown to attenuate the induction of apoptosis by both perforin and granzyme B. These data suggest that inhibition of Bcl 2 could enhance the cytotoxic effects elicited by T cells when targeted to cancer cells V. R. Sutton D. L. Vaux and J. A. Trapani 1997 158 12 5783 .

SiRNAs are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications do not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides combinations thereof and the like. The siRNA can have varying lengths e.g. 10 200 bps and structures e.g. hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and are processed in cells to provide active gene silencing. A double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand.

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Multivalent binding proteins are engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and are generally not naturally occurring antibodies. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens . DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig s. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site. Multispecific DVDs include DVD binding proteins that bind DLL4 and VEGF or C met and EFGR or ErbB3 and EGFR.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA pemetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Aurora kinase inhibitors include ABT 348 AZD 1152 MLN 8054 VX 680 Aurora A specific kinase inhibitors Aurora B specific kinase inhibitors and pan Aurora kinase inhibitors and the like.

Bcl 2 protein inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include EGFR antibodies ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FC1 PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include HGS1029 GDC 0145 GDC 0152 LCL 161 LBW 242 and the like.

Antibody drug conjugates include anti CD22 MC MMAF anti CD22 MC MMAE anti CD22 MCC DM1 CR 011 vcMMAE PSMA ADC MEDI 547 SGN 19Am SGN 35 SGN 75 and the like

Activators of death receptor pathway include TRAIL antibodies or other agents that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. DR4 and DR5 such as Apomab conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and trastuzumab.

Kinesin inhibitors include Eg5 inhibitors such as AZD4877 ARRY 520 CENPE inhibitors such as GSK923295A and the like.

mTOR inhibitors include AP 23573 CCI 779 everolimus RAD 001 rapamycin temsirolimus ATP competitive TORC1 TORC2 inhibitors including PI 103 PP242 PP30 Torin 1 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin picoplatin and the like.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors include wortmannin LY294002 XL 147 CAL 120 ONC 21 AEZS 127 ETP 45658 PX 866 GDC 0941 BGT226 BEZ235 XL765 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 GA101 ofatumumab ABT 806 mAb 806 ErbB3 specific antibodies BSG2 specific antibodies DLL4 specific antibodies and C met specific antibodies and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab CD20 antibodies types I and II and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 veliparib olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofiran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Ubiquitin ligase inhibitors include MDM2 inhibitors such as nutlins NEDD8 inhibitors such as MLN4924 and the like.

Compounds of this invention can also be used as radiosensitizers that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachytherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds having Formula I may be combined with other chemotherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin O Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EP0906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECIN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paclitaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine staurospores talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

The following Examples may be used for illustrative purposes and should not be deemed to narrow the scope of the invention.

The following examples are presented to provide what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of procedures and conceptual aspects of this invention. The exemplified compounds were named using ACD ChemSketch Version 5.06 5 Jun. 2001 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario ACD ChemSketch Version 12.01 13 May 2009 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario or ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. . Intermediates were named using ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. .

To a solution of 6 chloropyrimidin 4 amine 1 g 7.8 mmol in 5 mL N N dimethylformamide was added N iodosuccinimide 2.6 g 11.6 mmol and the mixture subjected to microwave irradiation Biotage Initiator at 100 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was diluted with water and ethyl acetate and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography silica gel 25 ethyl acetate in hexane afforded the title compound. LCMS 255.91 M 1 .

To a degassed solution of Example 1A 400 mg 1.6 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 6 mL was added copper I iodide 120 mg 0.63 mmol and triethylamine 2 mL 14.33 mmol . The mixture was degassed for 5 minutes and tert butyl 4 ethynylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 1.67 g 7.98 mmol and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 220 mg 0.31 mmol were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layers were washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography silica gel 30 ethyl acetate in hexane afforded the title compound. LCMS 337.1 M 1 .

To a solution of Example 1B 250 mg 0.74 mmol in toluene 5 mL was added potassium tert butoxide 249 mg 2.22 mmol followed by 18 crown 6 15 mg 0.057 mmol and the mixture was heated under nitrogen at 65 C. for 12 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography silica gel 40 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. LCMS 337.1 M 1 .

To a solution of Example 1C 200 mg 0.6 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 8 mL was added a solution of sodium bicarbonate 0.118 g 1.404 mmol in 0.5 mL water followed by 5 fluoro 2 methoxyphenylboronic acid 204 mg 1.2 mmol . The mixture was degassed with nitrogen and 1 1 bis di tert butyl phosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloride 21 mg 0.033 mmol was added. The mixture was heated under microwave conditions Biotage Initiator at 100 C. for 1 hour. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography silica gel 40 ethyl acetate hexane to afford the title compound. LCMS 427.21 M 1 .

To a solution of Example 1D 100 mg 0.23 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added hydrogen chloride saturated ethyl acetate 2 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture was concentrated and purified by preparative HPLC Agilent AD SP C18 25 011 reversed phase column eluting with a gradient of 0.01 trifluoroacetic acid in water to 1 1 methanol acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the hydrochloride salt. LCMS 327.1 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d DO 1.77 1.87 m 2H 2.23 d J 12 Hz 2H 3.0 3.06 m 2H 3.33 3.41 m 3H 3.79 s 3H 6.45 s 1H 7.29 7.32 m 1H 7.44 7.50 m 2H 8.99 s 1H .

A solution of Example 1D 50 mg 0.117 mmol in 2 mL tetrahydrofuran was cooled to 0 C. and 1M lithium aluminum hydride in tetrahydrofuran 0.469 mL was added under nitrogen. The mixture was warmed to room temperature and heated at 60 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 5 mL ethyl acetate and 2 mL saturated ammonium chloride were added. After stirring for 30 minutes the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the organic layers were washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by preparative HPLC Zorbax XDB C 18 32 reversed phase column eluting with a gradient of 0.01 trifluoroacetic acid in water to 1 1 methanol acetonitrile to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. LCMS 341.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.30 1.35 m 2H 2.02 2.04 m 2H 2.43 25.0 m 2H 2.96 s 3H 3.241 3.254 m 2H 3.68 3.69 m 1H 3.93 s 3H 6.62 s 1H 6.73 s 1H 7.36 7.39 m 1H 7.47 7.53 m 1H 7.54 7.57 m 1H 9.03 s 1H .

To a solution of 4 bromo 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 2.5 g 12.62 mmol in 50 mL N N dimethylformamide at 0 C. was added 95 sodium hydride 0.351 g 13.89 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes benzenesulfonyl chloride 1.772 mL 13.89 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for an additional 2 hours. The mixture was quenched with 20 mL saturated ammonium chloride and diluted with water 100 mL . The resulting suspension was stirred for 5 minutes filtered and dried under vacuum to give the title compound. MS ESI m z 340.0 M H .

To a suspension of Example 3A 5 g 14.79 mmol in 2 1 1 2 dimethyoxyethane ethanol 150 mL was added 2M aqueous sodium carbonate 29.6 mL 59.1 mmol 5 fluoro 2 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 3.02 g 17.74 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 1.038 g 1.479 mmol . The mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1.5 hours cooled and diluted with 100 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was triturated with dichloromethane filtered and dried under vacuum. The filtrate was concentrated to volume and the solid filtered and rinsed with dichloromethane. The remainder of the filtrate was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 15 to 70 ethyl acetate hexane. This was combined with the triturated material and dried over vacuum to give the title compound. MS ESI m z 383.5 M H .

To a solution of Example 3B 2.5 g 6.52 mmol in 50 mL tetrahydrofuran at 78 C. was added 2M lithium diisopropylamide 4.89 mL 9.78 mmol over 5 minutes. The solution was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes and a solution of iodine 3.31 g 13.04 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 50 mL was added over 5 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours and quenched with 50 mL 1M sodium thiosulfate. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give the title compound which was used without further purification. MS ESI m z 509.51 M H .

To a solution of Example 3C 3.07 g 6.03 mmol in 70 mL 1 2 dimethyoxyethane ethanol 50 20 was added tert butyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate 2.80 g 9.04 mmol 2M sodium carbonate 12.06 mL 24.11 mmol and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.423 g 0.603 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 3 hours cooled and diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 20 to 80 ethyl acetate hexane gave the title compound. MS ESI m z 565.43 M H .

To a solution of Example 3D 2.6 g 4.60 mmol in dioxane was added 6M sodium hydroxide 7.67 mL 46 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours cooled and diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give the title compound which was used without further purification. MS ESI m z 425.43 M H .

To a solution of Example 3E 900 mg 2.120 mmol in 10 mL dicholoromethane was added trifluoroacetic acid 1.634 mL 21.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and the solvent was removed by azeotroping with ethyl acetate. The residue was dissolved in 3 mL methanol and treated with 2M hydrogen chloride in ether 1 mL for 1 hour. The mixture was diluted with ether and the solid filtered to give the title compound as a hydrochloride salt. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.64 2.81 m 2H 3.76 3.82 m 3H 3.81 3.90 m 2H 6.52 s 1H 6.56 s 1H 7.17 7.33 m 1H 7.32 7.49 m 2H 8.86 s 1H 8.95 s 2H 12.57 s 1H . MS ESI m z 325.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 3D using 1 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridine in place of tert butyl 444 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 6 dihydropyridine 1 2H carboxylate. MS ESI m z 478.89 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 3E using Example 4A in place of Example 3D. The crude material was triturated with ethyl acetate to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.28 s 3H 2.55 t J 5.09 Hz 2H 3.06 d J 3.05 Hz 2H 3.72 3.81 m 3H 6.27 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 6.48 6.59 m 1H 7.17 7.27 m 1H 8.76 s 1H 12.19 s 1H . MS ESI m z 339.0 M H .

To a solution of Example 3F 100 mg 0.277 mmol in 3 mL N N dimethylformamide was added N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 0.169 mL 0.97 mmol followed by methanesulfonyl chloride 0.028 mL 0.36 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and was diluted with 30 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was triturated with ethyl acetate to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.63 s 2H 2.94 s 3H 3.38 t J 5.76 Hz 2H 3.78 s 3H 3.93 d J 3.05 Hz 2H 6.36 s 1H 6.59 s 1H 7.17 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.41 m 2H 8.78 s 1H 12.29 s 1H . MS ESI m z 403.0 M H 

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using acetic anhydride in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 0 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.06 d J 13.73 Hz 3H 2.46 s 1H 2.57 s 1H 3.55 3.69 m 2H 3.78 d J 1.83 Hz 3H 4.18 dd J 30.52 2.14 Hz 2H 6.34 d J 7.02 Hz 1H 6.57 s 1H 7.17 7.28 m 1H 7.35 t J 7.48 Hz 2H 8.78 s 1H 12.29 d J 14.65 Hz 1H . MS ESI m z 367.1 M H .

To a solution of Example 3F 150 mg 0.416 mmol in N N dimethylformamide was added N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 0.254 mL 1.455 mmol 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazol 1 ol hydrate 95 mg 0.624 mmol N ethylimino methylene N N dimethylpropane 1 3 diamine hydrochloride 120 mg 0.624 mmol and 2 hydroxyacetic acid 0.054 mL 0.624 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and diluted with 40 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 0 to 6 methanol in dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.56 s 1H 3.47 3.74 m 2H 3.78 s 3H 4.15 dd J 21.21 5.04 Hz 4H 4.51 4.70 m 1H 6.35 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 6.57 d J 15.87 Hz 1H 7.17 7.27 m 1H 7.29 7.40 m 2H 8.78 s 1H 12.30 d J 10.68 Hz 1H . MS ESI m z 383.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using cyclopropanesulfonyl chloride in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 6 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.91 1.05 m 4H 2.55 2.73 m 3H 3.37 3.52 m 2H 3.69 3.84 m 3H 3.93 4.13 m 2H 7.19 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.40 m 2H 8.78 s 1H 12.30 s 1H . MS ESI m z 429.0 M H .

To a solution of 2 bromo 4 fluoroaniline 2 g 10.4 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 5 mL and acetic acid 5 mL was added benzaldehyde 1.33 mg 12.5 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 8.92 g 42.1 mmol was added at 5 C. and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The mixture was diluted with water and treated with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography silica gel 15 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. LCMS 281 M 3 .

To a solution of Example 9A 500 mg 1.785 mmol in 5 mL 1 4 dioxane was added potassium acetate 526 mg 5.35 mmol and 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 544 mg 2.142 mmol . The mixture was degassed for 5 minutes and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane adduct 72.9 mg 0.089 mmol was added and the mixture was heated at 75 C. for 12 hours. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound. LCMS 328.1 M H .

To a solution of Example 1C 150 mg 0.343 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 3 mL was added sodium bicarbonate 0.087 g 1.03 mmol in 0.5 mL water followed by Example 9B 168 mg 0.515 mmol . The mixture was degassed with nitrogen and 1 1 bis di tert butyl phosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloride 21 mg 0.033 mmol was added and the mixture was heated in a microwave Biotage Initiator at 100 C. for 1 hour. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by column chromatography silica gel 40 ethyl acetate hexane to afford the title compound. LCMS 502.2 M H .

Example 9C 130 mg 0.259 mmol was stirred in 4 mL of hydrogen chloride saturated ethyl acetate at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture was concentrated and purified by preparative HPLC AG AD PP C18 15 031 reversed phase column eluting with 0.01 trifluoroacetic acid in water to afford the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. LCMS 402.15 M H H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.93 1.97 m 2H 2.32 2.36 m 2H 3.33 3.34 m 2H 3.54 3.58 m 3H 4.41 s 2H 6.42 s 1H 6.93 dd J 3.2 5.6 Hz 1H 6.98 7.01 m 1H 7.18 7.23 m 1H 7.28 7.29 m 1H 7.33 7.42 m 4H 8.95 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using propane 2 sulfonyl chloride in place methanesulfonyl chloride. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 6 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.24 d J 7.02 Hz 6H 2.47 2.54 m 2H 2.56 s 2H 3.36 3.45 m 1H 3.50 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.78 s 3H 4.03 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 6.28 6.43 m 1H 6.50 6.68 m 1H 7.18 7.27 m 1H 7.30 7.39 m 2H . MS ESI m z 431.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 6 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 0.66 0.82 m 4H 1.12 1.30 m 1H 1.92 2.14 m 1H 2.55 2.65 m 1H 3.63 3.73 m 1H 3.74 3.82 m 3H 3.83 3.93 m 1H 4.13 4.23 m 1H 4.39 4.51 m 1H 6.31 6.39 m 1H 6.52 6.65 m 1H 7.18 7.27 m 1H 7.30 7.38 m 2H 8.64 8.91 m 1H 12.09 12.43 m 1H . MS ESI m z 393.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 7 using 1 tert butoxycarbonyl azetidine 2 carboxylic acid in place of 2 hydroxyacetic acid. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 6 methanol dichloromethane to give the BOC protected intermediate. The intermediate was dissolved in 3 mL dichloromethane and treated with excess trifluoroacetic acid for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in 3 mL methanol and treated with 2M hydrogen chloride in ether for 15 minutes. The mixture was diluted with 40 mL diethyl ether and the solid was filtered to provide the title compound as the hydrochloride salt. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.37 2.73 m 5H 2.73 2.90 m 1H 4.28 s 1H 5.24 5.54 m 1H 6.65 6.84 m 2H 7.26 7.39 m 1H 7.44 7.57 m 2H 8.77 s 1H 9.04 s 1H 10.07 s 1H 13.33 s 1H . MS ESI m z 408.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 7 using 4 oxoazetidine 2 carboxylic acid in place of 2 hydroxyacetic acid. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 6 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.53 2.66 m 1H 2.84 t J 13.73 Hz 1H 3.15 3.28 m 2H 3.48 3.68 m 2H 3.69 3.85 m 3H 4.19 s 1H 4.37 4.56 m 1H 6.35 d J 5.76 Hz 1H 6.56 d J 10.85 Hz 1H 7.17 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.40 m 2H 8.25 s 1H 8.78 s 1H 12.28 s 1H . MS ESI m z 422.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 7 using 6 oxopiperidine 3 carboxylic acid in place of 2 hydroxyacetic acid. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 8 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.62 1.99 m 2H 2.09 2.43 m 2H 2.53 2.67 m 2H 3.05 3.27 m 3H 3.62 3.77 m 2H 3.76 3.83 m 3H 4.06 4.27 m 1H 4.27 4.42 m 1H 6.35 s 1H 6.57 s 1H 7.18 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.40 m 2H 7.43 s 1H 8.78 s 1H 12.28 d J 1.36 Hz 1H . MS ESI m z 450.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 7 using tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylic acid in place of 2 hydroxyacetic acid. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 0 to 4 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.59 s 3H 1.74 1.93 m 1H 2.36 2.67 m 2H 2.90 d J 10.17 Hz 1H 3.33 3.42 m 2H 3.57 3.75 m 2H 3.75 3.89 m 6H 6.34 s 1H 6.56 s 1H 7.18 7.27 m 1H 7.30 7.40 m 2H 8.55 8.99 m 1H 12.27 s 1H . MS ESI m z 437.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 7 using 1 ethylpyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid in place of 2 hydroxyacetic acid. Purification by preparative HPLC Waters LC4000 Phenomenex Luna C8 2 5 m 100A AXIA column using a gradient of 10 to 95 acetonitrile 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water provided the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.09 1.33 m 3H 1.74 2.19 m 1H 2.18 2.50 m 1H 2.63 s 1H 2.88 3.44 m 4H 3.47 3.91 m 8H 4.07 4.44 m 2H 6.55 s 1H 6.66 s 1H 7.22 7.35 m 1H 7.44 t J 7.48 Hz 2H 8.94 s 1H 9.91 d J 148.01 Hz 1H 12.81 s 1H . MS ESI m z 450.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using 2 5 dioxopyrrolidin 1 yl methylcarbamate in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. The mixture was quenched with 10 mL water and the solid was filtered and dried under vacuum to give the title compound H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.45 s 2H 2.59 d J 4.41 Hz 3H 3.51 t J 5.59 Hz 2H 3.78 s 3H 4.02 d J 2.37 Hz 2H 6.34 s 1H 6.41 6.51 m 1H 6.56 s 1H 7.18 7.27 m 1H 7.29 7.39 m 2H 8.77 s 1H 12.23 s 1H . MS ESI m z 382.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using 2 methoxyacetyl chloride in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 5 methanol dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.56 s 1H 3.53 3.72 m 2H 3.73 3.83 m 4H 4.10 4.22 m 4H 6.35 s 1H 6.57 s 1H 7.18 7.27 m 1H 7.29 7.41 m 2H 8.78 s 1H 12.28 s 1H . MS ESI m z 397.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using 3 isocyanatoprop 1 ene in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. The residue was triturated with dichloromethane to give the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.41 2.49 m 2H 3.54 t J 5.59 Hz 2H 3.69 t J 5.43 Hz 2H 3.78 s 3H 3.96 4.13 m 2H 4.89 5.22 m 2H 5.70 5.96 m 1H 6.34 d J 1.70 Hz 1H 6.57 s 1H 6.71 t J 5.59 Hz 1H 7.13 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.42 m 2H 8.77 s 1H 12.23 s 1H . MS ESI m z 408.2 M H .

To a solution of Example 3 100 mg 0.252 mmol triethylamine 0.077 mL 0.554 mmol and acetic acid 0.072 mL 1.259 mmol in 2 mL dichloromethane was added 2 3 dihydroxypropanal 45.3 mg 0.503 mmol and Biotage MP cyanoborohydride resin 2.49 mmol g 400 mg 1.007 mmol . The mixture was shaken on an orbital shaker overnight. The suspension was diluted with ethyl acetate the resin was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. Purification by preparative HPLC Waters LC4000 Phenomenex Luna C8 2 5 m 100A AXIA column using a gradient of 10 to 95 acetonitrile 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water provided the title compound as the trifluoroacetic acid salt. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 2.83 s 2H 3.02 3.24 m 1H 3.34 dd J 10.85 6.10 Hz 3H 3.40 3.52 m 1H 3.58 3.86 m 4H 3.88 4.06 m 2H 4.06 4.24 m 1H 6.48 6.61 m 2H 7.20 7.34 m 1H 8.89 s 1H 9.74 s 1H 12.66 s 1H . MS ESI m z 399.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using benzaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.86 s 2H 3.27 s 1H 3.64 s 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.91 s 2H 4.45 d J 9.16 Hz 2H 6.39 6.65 m 2H 7.28 dd J 8.85 3.97 Hz 1H 7.36 7.45 m 2H 7.47 7.53 m 3H 7.53 7.59 m 2H 8.90 s 1H 10.23 s 1H 12.74 s 1H . MS ESI m z 415.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using 4 formylbenzonitrile in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.84 s 2H 3.20 3.46 m 1H 3.55 3.73 m 1H 3.74 3.83 m 3H 3.85 4.00 m 2H 4.53 s 2H 6.44 6.66 m 2H 7.27 dd J 8.54 4.27 Hz 1H 7.35 7.46 m 2H 7.72 7.80 m 2H 8.00 d J 8.55 Hz 2H 8.66 9.01 m 1H 10.42 s 1H 12.69 s 1H . MS ESI m z 440.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using 3 formylbenzonitrile in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.85 s 2H 3.29 d J 19.84 Hz 1H 3.64 s 1H 3.73 3.84 m 3H 3.86 4.01 m 2H 4.36 4.60 m 2H 6.47 6.62 m 2H 7.28 dd J 9.00 4.12 Hz 1H 7.35 7.47 m 2H 7.72 t J 7.78 Hz 1H 7.90 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 7.98 d J 7.63 Hz 1H 8.04 s 1H 8.69 9.05 m 1H 10.34 s 1H 12.73 s 1H . MS ESI m z 440.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using tetrahydrofuran 2 carbaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 1.45 1.64 m 1H 1.74 1.98 m 2H 1.98 2.17 m 1H 2.84 s 2H 3.10 3.49 m 3H 3.59 3.89 m 6H 3.96 d J 14.65 Hz 1H 4.14 t J 15.41 Hz 1H 4.23 4.38 m 1H 6.49 6.64 m 2H 7.28 dd J 8.54 4.27 Hz 1H 7.36 7.46 m 2H 8.91 s 1H 10.01 s 1H 12.73 s 1H . MS ESI m z 409.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using N 4 formylphenyl acetamide in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 1.95 2.14 m 3H 2.67 2.97 m 2H 3.25 s 1H 3.63 d J 10.07 Hz 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.85 3.93 m 2H 4.37 d J 7.32 Hz 2H 6.36 6.65 m 2H 7.27 dd J 8.70 4.43 Hz 1H 7.36 7.43 m 2H 7.46 d J 8.54 Hz 2H 7.68 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 8.89 s 1H 9.96 10.20 m 2H 12.70 s 1H . MS ESI m z 472.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using picolinaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.86 s 2H 3.54 t J 5.49 Hz 2H 3.80 s 3H 4.04 s 2H 4.61 s 2H 6.56 s 1H 6.61 s 1H 7.29 dd J 8.85 3.97 Hz 1H 7.38 7.46 m 2H 7.51 dd J 7.02 4.88 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 7.63 Hz 1H 7.81 8.08 m 1H 8.71 d J 4.27 Hz 1H 8.93 s 1H 12.82 s 1H . MS ESI m z 416.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using isonicotinaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. The compound was purified after HPLC by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with 7.5 methanol dichloromethane with ammonium hydroxide to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.64 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.16 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 3.64 s 2H 3.78 s 3H 6.29 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 6.55 s 1H 7.11 7.43 m 5H 8.52 d J 6.10 Hz 2H 8.77 s 1H 12.22 s 1H . MS ESI m z 416.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using 2 trifluoromethyl isonicotinaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.84 s 2H 3.73 3.87 m 3H 3.88 4.01 m 2H 4.58 s 2H 6.47 6.61 m 2H 7.21 7.34 m 1H 7.33 7.47 m 2H 7.89 d J 4.88 Hz 1H 8.13 s 1H 8.75 9.03 m 2H 12.72 s 1H . MS ESI m z 484.2 M H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 6 iodo 7 phenylsulfonyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 1.9 g 4.53 mmol in 6 1 tetrahydrofuran water 60 mL was added 1 methylsulfonyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridine 1.56 g 5.43 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane complex 0.37 g 0.453 mmol and cesium carbonate 3.54 g 10.87 mmol . The mixture was heated at 50 C. overnight cooled and diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 10 to 60 ethyl acetate hexanes gave the title compound. MS ESI m z 452.5 M .

To a solution of Example 29A 1.10 g 2.429 mmol 4 fluoro 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl aniline 749 mg 3.16 mmol and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 170 mg 0.243 mmol in 7 2 3 1 2 dimethyoxyethane ethanol water 30 mL was added sodium carbonate 3.64 mL 7.29 mmol . The mixture was heated at 90 C. for 1 hour cooled and diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 30 mL dioxane treated with 6M sodium hydroxide 4.05 mL 24.29 mmol heated at 100 C. for 1 hour cooled and diluted with 50 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was triturated with ethyl acetate to give the title compound. MS ESI m z 388.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using Example 29B in place of Example 3 and benzaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.54 2.64 m 2H 2.96 s 3H 3.39 t J 5.80 Hz 2H 3.87 4.02 m 2H 4.32 s 2H 6.44 s 1H 6.64 s 1H 6.78 6.87 m 1H 6.94 dd J 5.95 2.90 Hz 1H 7.12 7.21 m 1H 7.24 t J 7.17 Hz 1H 7.29 7.40 m 4H 8.90 s 1H 12.76 s 1H . MS ESI m z 478.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using Example 29B in place of Example 3 and 4 formylbenzonitrile in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.59 s 2H 2.95 s 3H 3.40 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.80 4.02 m 2H 4.43 s 2H 6.43 s 1H 6.63 s 1H 6.71 6.81 m 1H 6.91 dd J 5.95 2.90 Hz 1H 7.10 7.21 m 1H 7.56 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 7.81 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 8.88 s 1H 12.68 s 1H . MS ESI m z 503.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using Example 29B in place of Example 3 and 3 formylbenzonitrile in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.60 s 2H 2.96 s 3H 3.39 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.89 3.99 m 2H 4.31 4.44 m 2H 6.43 s 1H 6.63 s 1H 6.74 6.84 m 1H 6.94 dd J 5.80 3.05 Hz 1H 7.11 7.22 m 1H 7.56 t J 7.63 Hz 1H 7.68 7.77 m 2H 7.82 s 1H 8.88 s 1H 12.68 s 1H . MS ESI m z 503.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using Example 29B in place of Example 3 and tetrahydrofuran 2 carbaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 1.52 1.68 m 1H 1.73 1.92 m 2H 1.92 2.06 m 1H 2.66 s 2H 2.96 s 3H 3.02 3.23 m 2H 3.40 t J 5.80 Hz 2H 3.57 3.71 m 1H 3.73 3.85 m 1H 3.91 4.08 m 3H 6.67 d J 25.94 Hz 3H 6.88 7.07 m 2H 7.16 7.28 m 1H 8.98 s 1H 12.96 s 1H . MS ESI m z 472.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using Example 29B in place of Example 3 and picolinaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.60 s 2H 2.96 s 3H 3.39 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.85 4.02 m 2H 4.59 s 2H 6.45 s 1H 6.63 s 1H 6.76 6.90 m 1H 6.98 dd J 5.80 3.05 Hz 1H 7.12 7.25 m 1H 7.56 7.67 m 1H 7.72 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 8.18 t J 7.32 Hz 1H 8.70 d J 4.88 Hz 1H 8.88 s 1H 12.68 s 1H . MS ESI m z 479.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using nicotinaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 2 to 10 methanol dichloromethane gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.74 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.24 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 3.73 s 2H 3.88 s 3H 6.38 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 6.65 s 1H 7.26 7.37 m 1H 7.38 7.54 m 3H 7.79 7.90 m 1H 8.59 dd J 4.88 1.53 Hz 1H 8.64 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 8.87 s 1H 12.32 d J 1.22 Hz 1H . MS ESI m z 416.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using 3 fluorobenzaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 2 to 10 methanol dichloromethane gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.64 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.13 d J 2.75 Hz 2H 3.62 s 2H 3.78 s 3H 6.28 d J 1.83 Hz 1H 6.54 s 1H 7.01 7.27 m 4H 7.28 7.44 m 3H 8.77 s 1H 12.21 s 1H . MS ESI m z 433.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using 3 5 difluorobenzaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 2 to 10 methanol dichloromethane gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.65 t J 5.49 Hz 2H 3.15 d J 2.75 Hz 2H 3.64 s 2H 3.78 s 3H 6.28 d J 1.83 Hz 1H 6.54 s 1H 6.99 7.17 m 3H 7.17 7.27 m 1H 7.28 7.39 m 2H 8.76 s 1H 12.21 s 1H . MS ESI m z 451.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using Example 29B in place of Example 3 and isonicotinaldehyde in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 10 methanol dichloromethane gave the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.57 s 2H 2.95 s 3H 3.39 q J 5.90 Hz 2H 3.93 d J 2.44 Hz 3H 4.49 s 2H 6.34 s 1H 6.59 s 1H 6.65 6.80 m 1H 6.91 dd J 5.80 3.05 Hz 1H 7.14 t J 9.61 Hz 1H 7.62 d J 5.80 Hz 2H 8.65 d J 5.80 Hz 2H 8.79 s 1H 12.42 s 1H . MS ESI m z 478.2. M .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using tetrahydrothiophene 3 sulfonyl chloride 1 1 dioxide in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 1 to 6 methanol dichloromethane gave the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 2.20 2.35 m 1H 2.60 s 2H 3.07 3.24 m 2H 3.34 3.41 m 1H 3.47 3.57 m 2H 3.62 dd J 13.43 8.85 Hz 1H 3.78 s 3H 4.06 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 4.25 4.42 m 1H 6.37 s 1H 6.57 s 1H 7.17 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.40 m 2H 8.79 s 1H 12.31 s 1H . MS ESI m z 507.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 20 using tert butyl 4 formylpiperidine 1 carboxylate in place of 2 3 dihydroxypropanal. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 40 to 80 ethyl acetate hexanes gave an oily residue which was taken up in 5 mL dichloromethane and treated with excess trifluoroacetic acid for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue dried under vacuum to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.29 1.51 m 2H 1.79 2.08 m 2H 2.10 2.31 m 1H 2.75 3.01 m 4H 3.17 s 2H 3.33 d J 12.51 Hz 3H 3.70 s 1H 3.82 s 3H 3.90 d J 12.82 Hz 1H 4.23 d J 14.95 Hz 1H 6.62 s 1H 6.69 s 1H 7.25 7.36 m 1H 7.39 7.51 m 2H 8.56 d J 9.77 Hz 1H 8.81 d J 10.38 Hz 1H 8.99 s 1H 10.14 s 1H 13.01 s 1H . MS ESI m z 422.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as described in Example 5 using 2 2 2 trifluoromethanesulfonyl chloride in place of methanesulfonyl chloride. Purification by flash chromatography on silica Analogix 280 eluting with a gradient of 40 to 100 ethyl acetate hexanes gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 2.66 d J 1.22 Hz 2H 3.65 3.84 m 5H 4.27 s 2H 6.41 s 1H 6.59 s 1H 7.17 7.28 m 1H 7.29 7.41 m 2H 8.80 s 1H 12.36 s 1H . MS ESI m z 457.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 3E substituting Example 3D with Example 29A. MS ESI m z 313.1 M H .

A 4 mL vial was charged with a stir bar a solution of Example 41A 27.50 mg 0.09 mmol in 1 mL of ethanol a solution of 5 chloro 2 fluoro 3 methylphenyl boronic acid 24.85 mg 1.5 eq 0.13 mmol in 220 L of ethanol a 1.0 M aqueous solution of cesium carbonate 175.84 L 2 eq 0.18 mmol and Siliacat DPP Pd Silicycle 0.27 mmol g loading 32.56 mg . The loaded vial was seal capped and placed in an Anton Paar Synthos 3000 microwave reactor 900 W maximum and heated to 120 C. for 15 minutes. Upon completion the solids were collected by filtration and dried under vacuum. The dried material was then re dissolved in 1.4 mL of dimethyl sulfoxide methanol 1 1 v v solution and purified by preparative HPLC on a Phenomenex Luna C8 2 5 m 100A AXIA column 30 mm 75 mm A gradient of acetonitrile A and 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B was used at a flow rate of 50 mL minute 0 0.5 minutes 10 A 0.5 6.0 minutes linear gradient 10 100 A 6.0 7.0 minutes 100 A 7.0 8.0 minutes linear gradient 100 10 A to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d DO 2.37 d J 2.1 Hz 3H 2.65 s 2H 2.95 d J 5.2 Hz 3H 3.18 s 1H 3.40 t J 5.7 Hz 2H 3.95 d J 3.4 Hz 2H 6.57 d J 3.8 Hz 1H 6.59 6.64 m 1H 7.60 d J 5.8 Hz 2H 8.85 s 1H . MS ESI m z 421.1 M H . Examples 42 through 59 were prepared essentially as described in Example 41B substituting the appropriate boronic acid.

To a solution of Example 41A 100 mg 0.320 mmol and morpholine 2.52 mL 3 mmol in 3 mL tetrahydrofuran 1 mL N N dimethylformamide was added N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 0.084 mL 0.480 mmol . The resulting reaction was stirred at 60 C. overnight. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue dried under high vacuum for 2 hours. The crude solid was triturated with ethyl acetate collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 11.93 s 1H 8.17 s 1H 6.68 s 1H 6.41 s 1H 3.66 3.93 m 8H 3.37 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 3.02 3.12 m 2H 2.89 2.98 m 3H 2.62 s 2H . MS ESI m z 364.2 M H .

A solution of Example 3C 3.5 g 6.78 mmol in 70 mL dioxane was treated with aqueous sodium hydroxide 11.30 mL 67.8 mmol 6 M and stirred at 100 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled and diluted with 300 mL of water. The aqueous mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 and the combined organic fractions were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound. MS ESI m z 370.1 M H .

To a solution of Example 61A 129 mg 0.528 mmol 2 4 4 difluorocyclohex 1 en 1 yl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 129 mg 0.528 mmol and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 28.5 mg 0.041 mmol in 10 mL dimethoxyethane ethanol water 7 2 3 was added sodium carbonate 129 mg 1.219 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours cooled and then extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic fraction was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate water and brine then dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude material was triturated with ethyl acetate and the solid was collected by filtration. The solid was purified via flash chromatography Analogix Intelliflash 280 24 g silica column 20 to 60 ethyl acetate hexanes gradient over 30 minutes to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.27 s 1H 8.65 8.90 m 1H 7.09 7.48 m 3H 6.45 s 1H 6.37 s 1H 3.73 3.82 m 3H 2.80 t J 14.19 Hz 2H 2.69 t J 5.95 Hz 2H 2.08 2.27 m 2H . MS ESI m z 360.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 60 substituting morpholine with pyrrolidine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.75 s 1H 8.07 s 1H 6.60 d J 1.83 Hz 1H 6.35 s 1H 3.87 d J 2.75 Hz 2H 3.72 s 4H 3.37 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 2.94 s 3H 2.61 s 2H 1.96 s 4H . MS ESI m z 348.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 60 substituting morpholine with 4 4 difluoropiperidine hydrochloride. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.96 s 1H 8.19 s 1H 6.68 d J 1.22 Hz 1H 6.42 s 1H 3.93 4.04 m 4H 3.89 d J 2.14 Hz 2H 3.38 t J 5.65 Hz 2H 2.94 s 3H 2.64 s 2H 1.98 2.16 m 4H . MS ESI m z 398.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 60 substituting morpholine with 3 3 difluoroazetidine hydrochloride. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.01 s 1H 8.21 s 1H 6.51 s 1H 6.40 6.45 m 1H 4.70 t J 12.51 Hz 4H 3.89 d J 3.05 Hz 2H 3.38 t J 5.80 Hz 2H 2.94 s 3H 2.61 s 2H . MS ESI m z 370.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 61B substituting 2 4 4 difluorocyclohex 1 en 1 yl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane with 2 3 6 dihydro 2H pyran 4 yl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.27 s 1H 8.70 8.87 m 1H 7.28 7.40 m 2H 7.16 7.27 m 1H 6.62 s 1H 6.32 s 1H 4.28 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 3.72 3.87 m 5H 2.46 d J 1.22 Hz 2H . MS ESI m z 326.1 M H .

A mixture of 2 2 ethoxy 5 fluorophenyl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 242 mg 0.91 mmol Example 75A 375 mg 0.79 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane adduct 64.5 mg 0.079 mmol and 1 M sodium carbonate solution 2.37 mL 2.369 mmol in dioxane 10 mL was heated at 130 C. for 50 minutes and then cooled and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resulting mixture was washed with brine and the organic fraction was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluted with a mixture of ethyl acetate and heptanes to provide the title compound. LC MS APCI m z 579.15 M H .

Example 66A 468 mg 0.81 mmol in a mixture of methanol 5 mL and tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was treated with 1 M NaOH 4.04 mL 4.40 mmol at 50 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled and concentrated. The resulting concentrate was acidified with 5 hydrochloric acid to pH 4 and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic fraction was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 1 1 dimethyl sulfoxide methanol and loaded onto a C18 column eluted with 20 80 acetonitrile in 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid solution at a flow rate of 50 mL minute to provide the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.26 s 1H 8.79 s 1H 7.28 7.37 m 2H 7.18 7.23 m 1H 6.55 s 1H 6.41 d 1H 4.10 q 4H 3.54 t 2H 2.46 2.50 m 2H 1.42 s 9H 1.16 t 3H . LC MS APCI m z 439 M 1 .

To a solution of Example 66B 220 mg 0.502 mmol in 5 mL dichloromethane was added 2 2 2 trifluoroacetic acid 0.387 ml 5.02 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dried under high vacuum for 2 hours. The residue was dissolved with 3 mL methanol and the mixture was treated with excess 2 M hydrochloric acid diethyl ether followed by stirring for 20 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with 50 mL diethyl ether and the solid was collected by filtration. The collected solid was dried under high vacuum to give the title compound as a hydrochloride salt. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.48 s 1H 9.64 s 2H 9.08 s 1H 7.42 7.59 m 2H 7.32 dd J 9.16 4.27 Hz 1H 6.80 d J 35.71 Hz 2H 4.15 q J 6.92 Hz 3H 3.84 s 2H 3.31 s 2H 2.77 s 1H 1.07 1.28 m 3H . MS ESI m z 339.1 M H .

To a mixture of Example 67 75 mg 0.222 mmol triethylamine 0.068 mL 0.488 mmol and acetic acid 0.063 mL 1.108 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added N 4 formylphenyl acetamide 72.3 mg 0.443 mmol and MP CN BHresin Biotage 2.17 mmol g 414 mg 0.887 mmol . The reaction mixture was shaken on an orbital shaker overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and the resin was filtered off rinsing with ethyl acetate and dichloromethane. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the crude residue was purified via flash chromatography Analogix Intelliflash 280 12 g silica column 2 to 10 methanol dichloromethane gradient over 30 minutes to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.19 s 1H 9.97 s 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.55 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 7.13 7.40 m 5H 6.54 s 1H 6.34 s 1H 4.08 q J 6.82 Hz 2H 3.56 s 2H 2.96 3.22 m 4H 2.65 s 2H 2.04 s 3H 1.09 1.26 m 3H . MS ESI m z 486.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 68 substituting Example 67 with Example 3F and N 4 formylphenyl acetamide with tert butyl 4 formylphenyl carbamate. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.21 s 1H 9.32 s 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.42 d J 7.93 Hz 2H 7.28 7.38 m 2H 7.17 7.27 m 3H 6.53 s 1H 6.28 s 1H 3.77 s 3H 3.45 3.63 m 2H 2.65 d J 13.12 Hz 2H 2.45 2.55 m 3H 1.47 s 9H . MS ESI m z 530.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared as a hydrochloride salt essentially as described in Example 67 substituting Example 66 with Example 69. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.18 s 1H 8.76 s 1H 7.28 7.40 m 2H 7.15 7.26 m 1H 6.96 d J 7.63 Hz 2H 6.52 d J 8.24 Hz 3H 6.26 s 1H 4.95 s 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.40 s 2H 3.05 s 2H 2.54 2.66 m 2H 2.42 2.48 m 2H . MS ESI m z 430.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 68 substituting Example 67 with Example 3F and N 4 formylphenyl acetamide with methyl 4 formylbenzoate. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.21 s 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.94 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 7.50 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 7.29 7.38 m 2H 7.16 7.27 m 1H 6.54 s 1H 6.28 s 1H 3.85 s 3H 3.78 s 3H 3.68 s 2H 3.14 d J 1.83 Hz 2H 2.65 t J 5.49 Hz 2H 2.41 2.56 m 2H . MS ESI m z 473.2 M H .

To a solution of Example 71 60 mg 0.127 mmol in 5 mL dioxane was added 6 M sodium hydroxide 212 L 1.270 mmol . The reaction mixture was held at 50 C. for 12 hours and then diluted with 25 mL water. The aqueous mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 and the organic fractions were discarded. The aqueous layer was diluted with an equal amount of ethyl acetate and made slightly acidic with 2.5 M hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 and the combined organic fractions were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.20 s 1H 8.76 s 1H 7.92 d J 7.93 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.24 Hz 2H 7.28 7.39 m 2H 7.15 7.27 m 1H 6.54 s 1H 6.28 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 3.78 s 3H 3.68 s 2H 3.14 s 2H 2.65 t J 5.49 Hz 2H 2.50 s 3H . MS ESI m z 459.1 M H .

To a solution of Example 3F 200 mg 0.503 mmol in 5 mL N N dimethylformamide was added trans 4 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 141 mg 0.755 mmol N ethylimino methylene N N dimethylpropane 1 3 diamine hydrochloride 125 mg 0.654 mmol 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazol 1 ol hydrate 116 mg 0.755 mmol and N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 0.440 mL 2.52 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and then extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic fractions were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography Analogix Intelliflash 280 12 g silica column 10 to 60 ethyl acetate hexane gradient over 30 minutes to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.29 d J 10.99 Hz 1H 8.78 s 1H 7.30 7.39 m 2H 7.18 7.27 m 1H 6.58 s 1H 6.35 s 1H 4.30 s 1H 4.16 s 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.63 3.75 m 2H 3.53 3.63 m 3H 2.53 2.77 m 2H 2.22 2.48 m 2H 1.85 2.01 m 2H 1.72 s 2H 1.31 1.54 m 4H . MS ESI m z 459.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 72 substituting Example 71 with Example 73. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.67 s 1H 8.89 s 1H 7.41 dd J 7.93 4.58 Hz 2H 7.20 7.34 m 1H 6.63 s 1H 6.49 s 1H 4.31 s 1H 4.17 s 1H 3.75 3.86 m 3H 3.63 3.75 m 2H 2.55 2.74 m 2H 2.47 s 2H 2.18 s 1H 1.91 s 2H 1.64 1.79 m 2H 1.28 1.53 m 4H . MS ESI m z 479.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 3D substituting Example 3C with 4 chloro 6 iodo 7 phenylsulfonyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine. MS ESI m z 475.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared as a hydrochloride salt essentially as described in Example 3F substituting Example 3E with Example 75A. LC MS ESI m z 375.1 M H .

To a solution of Example 75B 4.25 g 10.33 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 5.41 ml 31.0 mmol in 120 mL dichloromethane was added dimethylcarbamic chloride 1.333 g 12.40 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 15 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the crude material was purified via flash chromatography Analogix Intelliflash 280 80 g silica column 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate to give the title compound. LC MS ESI m z 446.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 3E substituting Example 3D with Example 75C. LC MS ESI m z 306.0 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 3B substituting Example 3A with Example 75D. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 12.25 s 1H 8.78 s 1H 7.29 7.39 m 2H 7.19 7.26 m 1H 6.56 s 1H 3.90 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 3.79 s 3H 3.28 3.38 m 2H 2.69 2.82 m 6H 2.53 s 2H . MS ESI m z 396.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 3B substituting Example 3A with Example 75D and 5 fluoro 2 methoxyphenyl boronic acid with 2 3 difluorophenyl boronic acid. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 12.46 s 1H 8.85 s 1H 7.52 7.73 m 2H 7.29 7.49 m 1H 6.61 s 1H 6.53 d J 1.22 Hz 1H 3.90 d J 2.44 Hz 2H 3.34 3.38 m 2H 2.71 2.83 m 6H 2.56 s 1H . MS ESI m z 384.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as a hydrochloride salt essentially as described in Example 83C substituting S tert butyl 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoate hydrochloric acid with S tert butyl 2 amino 2 cyclohexylacetate hydrochloride. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 13.12 s 1H 8.82 9.67 m 3H 8.34 s 2H 7.42 7.58 m 1H 7.22 7.42 m 1H 6.63 d J 22.58 Hz 2H 4.00 s 2H 3.78 3.87 m 3H 2.56 2.85 m 3H 2.20 2.40 m 1H 2.04 2.20 m 1H 1.68 1.96 m 3H 1.60 s 1H 0.96 1.41 m 5H . MS ESI m z 479.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as a hydrochloride salt essentially as described in Example 83C substituting S tert butyl 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoate hydrochloric acid with S tert butyl 2 amino 3 methylbutanoate hydrochloric acid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.32 s 1H 9.67 d J 110.17 Hz 1H 8.82 9.24 m 2H 8.41 s 2H 7.43 7.60 m 2H 7.23 7.44 m 1H 6.55 6.83 m 2H 3.97 4.18 m 1H 3.77 3.90 m 3H 3.67 3.78 m 2H 2.60 2.90 m 3H 2.12 2.42 m 2H 1.81 2.03 m 1H 0.90 1.17 m 6H . MS ESI m z 439.2 M H .

To a suspension of Example 61A 300 mg 0.813 mmol and ethyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl cyclohex 3 enecarboxylate 342 mg 1.219 mmol in 10 mL dimethoxyethane ethanol water 7 2 3 was added sodium carbonate 345 mg 3.25 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 17.09 mg 0.024 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 90 C. for 12 hours then cooled and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic fractions were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate 2 water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude material was triturated with ethyl acetate and the solid was collected by filtration. The solid was dissolved in 15 mL dioxane treated with 6 M sodium hydroxide 1.355 ml 8.13 mmol and stirred at 90 C. for 12 hours. Most of the solvent was removed and the residue was diluted with 30 mL water. The aqueous mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 and the organic fractions were discarded. The aqueous layer was made neutral pH 7 with 1 M HCl. The solid was collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 12.16 s 1H 8.75 s 1H 7.28 7.39 m 2H 7.15 7.26 m 1H 6.60 s 1H 6.24 s 1H 3.69 3.85 m 3H 2.26 2.47 m 4H 1.93 2.10 m 1H 1.54 1.77 m 1H MS ESI m z 368.2 M H .

To a suspension Example 3F 150 mg 0.416 mmol in 4 mL N N dimethylformamide was added N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 0.363 mL 2.079 mmol followed by 2 chloro N N dimethylacetamide 0.051 mL 0.499 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and then diluted with ethyl acetate. The mixture was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude material was triturated with ethyl acetate and the solid was collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.21 s 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.29 7.39 m 2H 7.16 7.27 m 1H 6.54 s 1H 6.29 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 3.78 s 3H 3.26 s 2H 2.97 3.06 m 3H 2.80 2.87 m 3H 2.68 2.79 m 2H 2.50 d J 1.53 Hz 2H . MS ESI m z 410.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 68 substituting Example 67 with Example 3F and N 4 formylphenyl acetamide with N 4 formylphenyl methanesulfonamide. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 12.21 s 1H 9.70 s 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.27 7.38 m 4H 7.15 7.25 m 3H 6.54 s 1H 6.28 d J 1.53 Hz 1H 3.78 s 3H 3.56 s 2H 3.12 s 2H 2.98 s 3H 2.64 s 2H 2.44 2.53 m 2H . MS ESI m z 508.1 M H .

A solution of Example 3F 104 mg 0.381 mmol 4 dimethylamino pyridin 1 ium 1 yl sulfonyl ethoxycarbonyl amide 104 mg 0.381 mmol and triethylamine 0.121 mL 0.866 mmol in 5 mL N N dimethylformamide was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was purified via flash chromatography Analogix Intelliflash 280 24 g silica column 0 to 8 methanol dichloromethane gradient over 30 minutes gave the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 12.29 s 1H 11.39 s 1H 8.62 8.89 m 1H 7.30 7.38 m 2H 7.18 7.28 m 1H 6.56 s 1H 6.35 d J 1.83 Hz 1H 3.97 4.13 m 4H 3.70 3.84 m 3H 3.48 t J 5.80 Hz 2H 2.60 s 2H 1.08 1.23 m 3H . MS ESI m z 476.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 61B substituting 2 4 4 difluorocyclohex 1 en 1 yl 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane with 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 2 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 dec 7 en 8 yl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane. MS ESI m z 382.2 M H .

To a suspension of Example 83A 370 mg 0.970 mmol in 15 mL dichloromethane was added excess trifluoroacetic acid. The reaction was held at room temperature overnight. The volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 30 mL ethyl acetate. The mixture was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound. MS ESI m z 338.2 M H .

To a mixture of Example 83B 100 mg 0.296 mmol triethylamine 0.091 mL 0.652 mmol and acetic acid 0.085 mL 1.482 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added S tert butyl 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoate hydrochloride 133 mg 0.593 mmol and MP CN BHresin Biotage 2.17 mmol g 546 mg 1.186 mmol . The reaction mixture was shaken on an orbital shaker overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with 5 mL dichloromethane and the resin filtered off rinsing with dichloromethane and methanol. The crude material was purified via column chromatography Analogix Intelliflash 280 12 g silica cartridge 0 4 methanol dichloromethane gradient over 30 minutes. The material was dissolved in 5 mL dichloromethane and treated with excess trifluoroacetic acid and stirred at room temperature overnight. The volatiles were removed in vacuo the residue was dissolved in 5 mL methanol and the mixture was treated with excess 2 M HCl diethyl ether. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes and then diluted with diethyl ether. The resultant solid was collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum to give the title compound as a hydrochloride salt. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.34 s 1H 8.80 9.10 m 3H 8.36 s 1H 7.46 7.57 m 2H 7.27 7.39 m 1H 6.60 6.78 m 2H 4.02 d J 10.07 Hz 1H 3.76 3.88 m 3H 3.51 3.61 m 1H 3.15 3.36 m 2H 2.57 2.93 m 2H 2.34 s 1H 1.99 2.16 m 1H 1.78 1.98 m 1H 1.15 s 9H . MS ESI m z 453.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as a hydrochloride salt essentially as described in Example 83C substituting S tert butyl 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoate hydrochloride with R tert butyl 2 amino 3 methylbutanoate hydrochloride. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 13.33 s 1H 8.81 9.24 m 1H 8.43 s 2H 7.51 t J 7.78 Hz 2H 7.25 7.42 m 1H 6.51 6.83 m 2H 4.04 s 1H 3.80 3.89 m 3H 3.66 3.77 m 2H 3.25 3.44 m 1H 2.94 3.12 m 1H 2.61 2.89 m 2H 2.29 s 1H 2.13 2.26 m 1H 1.84 2.02 m 1H 0.93 1.05 m 6H . MS ESI m z 439.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared as a hydrochloride salt essentially as described in Example 83C substituting S tert butyl 2 amino 3 3 dimethylbutanoate hydrochloride with S tert butyl 2 amino 4 methylpentanoate hydrochloride. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 13.37 s 1H 9.18 10.28 m 2H 8.92 9.19 m 1H 7.44 7.63 m 2H 7.23 7.43 m 1H 6.51 6.81 m 2H 4.00 s 2H 3.72 3.96 m 3H 3.27 3.45 m 1H 2.56 2.90 m 1H 2.16 2.38 m 1H 1.70 2.04 m 4H 0.79 1.04 m 6H . MS ESI m z 453.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 68 substituting Example 67 with Example 3F and N 4 formylphenyl acetamide with ethyl 4 oxocyclohexanecarboxylate. MS ESI m z 479.2 M H .

To a solution of Example 86A 266 mg 0.556 mmol in 4 mL of tetrahydrofuran water 3 1 was added lithium hydroxide mono hydrate 46.7 mg 1.112 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The volatiles were then removed and the residue dissolved in 5 mL water and the pH was adjusted to pH 6 7 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. The solid was collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum overnight to give the title compound as a hydrochloride salt. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.26 s 1H 8.81 s 1H 7.13 7.52 m 3H 6.62 s 1H 6.32 s 1H 3.83 s 3H 3.32 d J 21.06 Hz 2H 2.67 2.86 m 2H 2.56 s 1H 2.41 s 1H 2.10 2.27 m 1H 1.83 2.08 m 3H 1.24 1.76 m 6H . MS ESI m z 451.1 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 68 substituting Example 67 with Example 3F and N 4 formylphenyl acetamide with methyl 2 4 oxocyclohexyl acetate. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography Analogix 280 40 g silica cartridge 10 70 3 1 ethyl acetate ethanol in heptanes gradient over 30 minutes to give the title compound. MS ESI m z 479.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared essentially as described in Example 86B substituting Example 86A with Example 87A. The crude material was purified by HPLC essentially as described in Example 41B to give the title compound as a trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.05 s 1H 10.01 s 1H 9.00 s 1H 7.40 7.51 m 2H 7.27 7.36 m 1H 6.72 s 1H 6.65 s 1H 3.95 4.09 m 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.72 d J 8.85 Hz 1H 3.18 3.34 m 2H 2.78 2.98 m 2H 2.02 2.22 m 4H 1.88 d J 12.21 Hz 2H 1.40 1.76 m 3H 1.08 q J 12.21 Hz 2H . MS ESI m z 465.2 M H .

CDK9 enzyme activities were measured using LANCE ULight TR FRET kinase assay reagents PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. . Compounds were directly added in 100 DMSO to white low volume assay plates Perkin Elmer Proxiplate 6008289 using a Labcyte Echo acoustic dispenser. Assay reagents in serine threonine kinase assay buffer containing 20 mM HEPES 10 mM MgCl 100 mM NaVO and 0.0075 Triton X 100. were added for final reaction mixture concentrations of 1000 M ATP 100 nM U light MBP peptide Perkin Elmer TRF0109M and reaction initiated with 4 nM CDK9 Cyclin T1 Carna Biosciences 04 110 . The kinase reaction was carried out for 30 minutes before addition of stopping buffer to a final of 20 mM EDTA and 0.5 nM of LANCE Ultra Europium anti phospho MBP antibody PerkinElmer TRF0201M in LANCE detection buffer PerkinElmer CR97 100 . The reaction was equilibrated for 1 hour and the signal read in the Perkin Elmer Envision in TR FRET mode excitation at 320 nm and emission at 615 665 nm .

Cell viability assays were performed using A431 or H929 cells. A431 cells were seeded in 96 well plates at 10 000 cells well and after overnight incubation treated with compounds at 2 times the final concentration to result in a dose response of 3 fold dilutions from 10 M to 0.0005 M 50 L well 0.1 final DMSO concentration . H929 cells were seeded in 96 well plates at 10 000 cells well and treated immediately with compounds as described above. After 24 hours at 37 C. cell viability was measured using Cell TiterGlo reagent Promega with a luminescence reader. Alternately cell viability assays were performed in 384 well format. A431 cells were seeded in 384 well plates at 2500 cells well and after overnight incubation treated with compounds in a dose response of 3 fold dilutions from 10 M to 0.0005 M 25 nL well 0.1 final DMSO concentration . For the H929 viability assay 25 nL well of the compounds was dispensed into 384 well plates in a dose response as described above and cells were immediately seeded in 384 well plates at 2500 cells well. After 24 hours at 37 C. cell viability was measured using Cell TiterGlo reagent Promega with a luminescence reader. The results are reported in Table 1.

It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of the appended claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

