---

title: Controlled recorded 3-way calling
abstract: Agencies issue recording devices to personnel for administrating and monitoring controlled calls during the course of their duties. To provide flexible capabilities to agencies, a virtual number is provisioned and configured to enable an operator to administrate controlled calls without dedicated recording devices. Using the virtual number, the operator may setup a controlled call between a victim and a baddie. The victim is contacted via the virtual number by the operator and optionally informed about the controlled call process. In turn, the baddie is contacted using number information of the victim's phone and connected with the victim. Call audio between the victim and baddie is transmitted to the operator. When necessary, the operator may terminate the call remotely from the telephonic device the operator used to setup the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253311&OS=09253311&RS=09253311
owner: World Emergency Network—Nevada Ltd.
number: 09253311
owner_city: Carson City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 631 621 filed Sep. 28 2012 application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 546 342 filed Oct. 12 2011 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 482 966 filed May 29 2012 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 539 050 filed Jun. 29 2012 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Police officers and other agents operators oftentimes conduct investigations during the course of their duties. In many cases these investigations require the operator administrate a controlled call between two parties. Typically an operator administrates a controlled call by sitting in with one of the parties to monitor and control a telephone call between the two parties. For example the operator may work a domestic violence case which hinges on a confession from the offender or baddie. In order to solicit the confession in a covert manner the operator may work with a victim in a controlled environment such as a police station or the victim s home. The operator then instructs the victim throughout the course of a call placed to the baddie from the victim s phone. The operator may terminate the call if needed by physically taking the phone of the victim and ending the call or otherwise physically disrupting the line. Typically the operator will utilize a physical recorder to document the call for evidence. In such instances the operator will require physical hardware for connecting to the victim s phone tapping into the victim s phone line or recording audio when the victim s phone is in a speaker phone setting.

These configurations are less than ideal. Specifically the physical hardware for connecting to the victim s phone may be cumbersome and have incompatibilities with different phone models or a lengthy setup process. Tapping into the victim s phone line typically requires access to a physical phone line which may be difficult with voice over internet protocol VoIP lines and wireless cellular phones. Additionally the simplest option putting the baddie on speaker may tip off the baddie and present difficulties with audio recording quality.

Moreover operators may not carry the necessary equipment to record a phone call during the course of their usual duties and agencies oftentimes lack the ability to issue every operator the appropriate recording hardware. Accordingly the recording of the call between the victim and baddie may be delayed from an opportune time of collecting evidence or worse. While these difficulties are discussed with respect to an operator private individuals e.g. a business owner and other entities may face similar difficulties in their respective environments.

The above and other issues are address by a method and computer system for configuring a virtual number for use on a network and enabling an operator device to administrate e.g. setup monitor and manage recording of a controlled call between a first and a second contact device with the virtual number. An embodiment of the method comprises receiving authentication information for an operator or operator device in response to a connection request to a virtual number configured for administrating controlled calls. The operator device is authenticated based on the agreement of an authentication number and the virtual number stored in a mapping table and connected with the virtual number. The method further comprises receiving device information corresponding to a first contact device for setting up a controlled call with and transmitting instructions for connecting the first contact device with the virtual number.

The method further comprises receiving device information corresponding to a second contact device for setting up the controlled call with and transmitting instructions for connecting the second connect device with the first contact device using the device information corresponding to the first contact device.

The method further comprises transmitting instructions for passing audio data transmitted between the contact devices to the operator device. The instructions may further disable audio received from the operator device from being transmitted to either contact device.

The method further comprises receiving a command from the operator device to end communications between the first contact device and the second contact device and transmitting instructions for disconnecting the second contact device from the first contact device.

The method further comprises terminating the connection between the second contact device from the first contact device in response to a command from the operator device.

An embodiment of the system comprises a service having one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer program code. When executed the computer program code causes the server to receive device information in response to an operator device connecting to a virtual number for administrating controlled calls. The device information includes a first transmitting number corresponding to a first contact device and a second transmitting number corresponding to a second contact device. The server transmits instructions for connecting the first contact device with the virtual number. The server further transmits instructions for connecting the second connect device with the first contact device using the device information corresponding to the first contact device.

The server further transmits instructions for passing audio data transmitted between the contact devices to the operator device. The instructions may further disable audio received from the operator device from being transmitted to either contact device.

The server further transmits instructions for disconnecting the second contact device from the first contact device in response to receiving a command from the operator device to end communications between the first contact device and the second contact device.

The server may receive authentication information for the operator device in response to a request to connect to the virtual number for administrating controlled calls. The server authenticates the operator device for using the virtual number based on the agreement of the authentication information and an authentication number stored in associated with the virtual number in a mapping table.

The Figures FIG. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the embodiments.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments for purposes of illustration only.

An agency typically supports many operators that work multiple cases. Oftentimes the traditional procedure of issuing carrying recording devices and reconfiguring the recording devices for each recorded call between two parties is not feasible under a set of given circumstances or is simply cumbersome to the operator or agency. Additionally the traditional configurations of the recording devices may tip off a party that the call is being recorded in undercover scenarios and require the operator to manually administrate the controlled call and manage the collection of recorded data and submission of the data to evidence.

Many operators posses a personal mobile phone or are issued a mobile phone by their agency or department which may include a microphone and an application that can substitute as a hand held digital recorder for recording voice memos and the like. These applications face similar shortcomings as handheld recorders in addition to exposing the operator and agency to potential evidentiary liability. Additionally while many of these devices also include built in 3 way calling features an operator cannot simply utilize a traditional 3 way calling feature to administrate a controlled call between two parties for numerous reasons some of which include First the baddie expects to receive incoming calls from the transmitting number of the victim s phone not the operator s or a blocked number which may tip off the baddie. Thus the victim would need to setup the 3 way call rather than the operator. Secondly in situations where the victim places the 3 way call the presence of operator may be detected due to noise on the line either operator induced ambient or due to connection quality . Third in situations where the victim places the 3 way call the operator is unable to end or otherwise terminate the call. Fourth the operator still requires a recorder configured to work with their device or the victim s. Finally if the operator is disconnected during the course of the 3 way call the recording may be incomplete and thus deficient for evidentiary purposes.

Accordingly the agency may coordinate with an agency support service for configuring the operator s mobile phone landline phone or network enabled computing device to fulfill the roles of remote setup management and recording e.g. evidence collection for administrating controlled calls. The configuration can take place over the air such that a given telephonic device is conveniently enabled to administrate a controlled call as needed. Additionally if the agency desires to provide the capabilities of controlled calling to multiple operators the agency can specify multiple phones for configuration or provide authentication information to multiple operators for administrating controlled calls on an as needed basis.

Example embodiments described herein relate to implementing a controlled call system over a wired e.g. PSTN and the Internet and wireless radio network e.g. PSTN Cellular Network and or WiFi for network capable devices such as a mobile phone a land line phone VoIP phone or computer for use with a virtual number for performing a controlled call.

As mobile phones and similar devices are commonly carried by operators during the course of their duties mobile phones offer an existing platform for administrating controlled calls without dedicated equipment. Additionally with the popularity of smart phones and feature phones additional monitoring and safety features may be integrated into the operator s device for enhancing operational viability in the field. For example the operator device may be configured to collect a wide range of valuable real time data. Real time data collected by the operator device may include audio and Global Positioning System GPS coordinates etc.

The operator device may subsequently transmit all or a portion of the collected real time data over existing channels e.g. a network back to the agency agency service or another entity. Embodiments of the agency agency service and or other entities within the controlled call system receive the collected data for storage and or live streaming to monitoring devices operator devices and records. Depending on the embodiment the monitoring devices are further configured to access and present e.g. play and or display a variety of the real time and historical data stored on or streamed by the entities on the network. For example the monitoring devices may access a web interface API or execute a standalone application for viewing active controlled calls retrieving audio data from controlled calls provisioning virtual numbers modifying assignment of operator devices and viewing other information associated with controlled calls. In some embodiments the monitoring devices may access portions of the real time data via a provided monitoring line configured for maintaining the covertness of the controlled call. Furthermore other agencies with appropriate credentials and monitoring devices may similarly access portions of the collected information during inter agency investigations.

Agency service represents a collection of compute devices e.g. servers and related storage mediums that are configured for performing various activities such as configuring operator devices exchanging data over the network and storing data in support of one or more agencies not shown and operated operator devices . For example the agency service may include one or more modules providing ascribed functionality to an agency via an application programming interface API or web interface collectively the interface as described in more detail with reference to . The agency service may also include infrastructure for providing audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network within the monitoring interface using the public switched telephone network PSTN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services.

The operator devices are oftentimes mobile telephonic devices capable of collecting data and transmitting data e.g. wirelessly over the network . Some examples of an operator device include a mobile phone tablet or notebook computer. Example embodiments of the operator device as a mobile phone include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as an operator device may not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the operator device or controlled call system due to inherent differences in device capabilities. In some embodiments other telephonic devices such as land line phones are used with the controlled call system.

In one embodiment the operator device executes a CC module for automating the setup of controlled call connections through the network and collecting and transmitting data to entities on the network . An example embodiment of a CC module is described in more detail with reference to .

In addition to the operator devices a number of monitoring devices not shown may connect to entities on the network to obtain or present data associated with one or more controlled calls administrated by operator devices. Depending on the embodiment a monitoring device is a network capable device that can be operated within an agency or externally in the field. As referred to herein a monitoring device is a mobile or stationary device capable of connectivity e.g. wireless or wired to a network such as an agency network the internet PSTN and or cellular network. Some examples of a monitoring device include a mobile phone land line phone tablet and notebook or desktop computer.

Example embodiments of the monitoring device as a mobile phone can include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as a monitoring device does not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the monitoring device or the controlled call system due to inherent differences in device capabilities. In one example embodiment the monitoring device executes a monitoring module for interfacing with entities on the network to manage operator devices and view collected data.

Also shown are two contact devices associated with the parties the operator desires to administrate a controlled call between. Embodiments of the various contact devices include any network capable device that may send or receive information associated with a transmitting number on the network however in some instances the contact device may use a virtual number itself or other means to do so . Accordingly as referred to herein a contact device can be a mobile or stationary device capable of connectivity e.g. wireless or wired to the network for sending or receiving information over the internet PSTN and or cellular network. Some examples of a contact device include a mobile phone land line phone tablet and notebook or desktop computer capable of receiving an incoming call.

After authenticating the operator device the agency service enables the operator to specify a contact A to initiate the controlled call with using the operator device. Typically in a controlled call setting the contact A e.g. a victim the operator specifies to initiate the controlled call with is aware that the operator will be administrating and overhearing the call. In turn the agency service may enable the operator device to communicate with the victim s contact device A through e.g. establishing a connection with or transmitting data from the virtual number . For example the operator device specifies contact device information such as a transmitting number for the contact device A. The agency service receives the contact device information for the victim s device A and transmits instructions that cause the contact device A to receive a connection request from virtual number . If the contact device A answers the victim and operator are connected. In other words the agency service transmits instructions e.g. to a provider to dial out to the contact device A from the virtual number A to connect the operator device with the contact device A. As the agency service connects the operator device with entities on the network through the virtual number the virtual numbers prevent other entities such as contacts from viewing device and or number information associated with the operator device. In some embodiments voice communications are enabled between the contact device A and the operator device such that the operator may instruct or coach the victim personally or play a recorded message to the victim about the controlled call process.

Once the contact device A is connected to the virtual number the agency service enables the operator to specify a contact B which contact A will be communicating with during the controlled call. Typically in a controlled call setting the contact B e.g. a baddie the operator specifies for the contact A to communicate with is unaware of the operator s presence and control over the call. For example the operator device specifies contact device information such as a transmitting number for the contact device B. The agency service receives the contact device information for the baddie s device B and transmits instructions that cause the contact device B to receive a connection request which appears to originate from the contact device A of the victim. If the contact device B answers the victim baddie and operator are connected. In other words the agency service transmits instructions e.g. to a provider to dial out to the contact device B using the transmitting number of the contact device A and connects contact device A with contact device B while allowing the operator device to remain connected and in control of the line unbeknownst to the baddie.

In some embodiments voice communications from the operator device are disabled once the contact devices A B are connected such that the baddie is not tipped off to the controlled call. Additionally as the provider forges one or more of the connections between the contact devices A B and the network through the virtual number the agency service may configure the virtual number at the provider or transmit instructions to the provider such that the operator device possesses administrative privileges over the communication channel. Thus for example the operator may terminate the communication channel between the contacts A B or otherwise manage the controlled call.

The network represents the communication pathway between agencies agency service the operator devices contact devices monitoring devices and other entities not shown . In one embodiment the network includes standard communications technologies and or protocols and can include the Internet and PSTN. Oftentimes these communications technologies and or protocols carry both PSTN and Internet related data. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 2G 3G 4G mobile communications protocols worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including analog audio e.g. for last mile PSTN communications digital audio and video e.g. as a file or streaming with Real Time Streaming Protocol the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML JavaScript VBScript FLASH the portable document format PDF etc. In addition all or some of the data exchanged over the network can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In another embodiment the entities on the network can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above. For example some government agencies and the military may operate networks auxiliary to the internet and PSTN.

As used herein the term module refers to computer program instructions and or other logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules formed of executable computer program instructions are stored on a non transitory storage device loaded into memory and executed by a computer processor as one or more processes.

Agency represents a collection of servers desktop notebook or tablet computers mobile telephones and related storage mediums used by respective agency personnel for executing applications or modules to communicate with and receive data from the agency service e.g. via the interface and other entities on the network . For example agency devices may execute a web browser to access a web interface or execute a mobile or desktop application for communicating with an API provided by the agency service . An agency may also include telephonic and video infrastructure enabling audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network using the public switched telephone network PTSN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services for monitoring or specifying configurations for operator devices .

The telephony network may include servers switches and other hardware and software for implementing among other protocols and technologies worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications including land lines and 2G 3G 4G wireless protocols. The telephony network also provides mobile devices with the capability to transmit and receive data over the internet . The telephony network is managed by one or more communication service providers CSPs not shown that own telephone numbers for use on the PSTN and the CSPs own network e.g. a wireless network that communicates with the PSTN .

The provider may include servers switches and other hardware and software for communicating over the network with CSPs and other entities. The provider buys or leases numbers for use on the telephony network from multiple CSPs. The provider in turn manages numbers provisioned for use by the agency service and the telephony traffic associated with the numbers. In one embodiment the provider allows the agency service to provision one or more of the numbers as virtual numbers over the network .

Typically a number used on the telephony network directs to a given mobile device VoIP device or land line device having an associated number identity characterized by automatic number identification ANI information or caller identification. Virtual numbers while still operable with the PSTN and CSP networks are associated with the provider who handles telephony traffic for the number. Because a virtual number does not direct to an end user device the provider may establish connections using the virtual number with devices dialing dialed or otherwise identified based on instructions or configuration information received from the agency service agency operator device and or monitoring device . Additionally the provider may record controlled call information such as call audio and caller history e.g. on a computer readable medium and stream provide call information for download e.g. over the network .

The provider may also pass bridge audio bidirectional or unidirectional in real time between two or more telephonic devices with virtual numbers or connected by the provider via a virtual number . Additionally as the virtual numbers are handled by the provider the agency service may modify ANI information and caller identification associated with the virtual number. The provider may also receive instructions to present a set of ANI information and caller identification information e.g. a spoofed number identity from one contact device e.g. that of the victim s to another e.g. that of the baddie when connecting devices via virtual numbers.

In addition to provisioning virtual numbers for the agency service the provider communicates notifications and data associated with the virtual numbers to the agency service or other entity such as the agency . For example the provider may notify the agency service and optionally a monitoring device when an operator device uses a virtual number to administrate a controlled call or upon completion of a controlled call. The provider may also receive instructions e.g. during the call from the operator device to stop start recordings of controlled calls on the virtual number and interface with a transcription service to transcribe call audio. In turn the provider can transmit the recordings and transcripts to the agency service or other entity on the network .

Additionally the provider may enable or disable inbound and or outbound audio for different parties connected to a virtual number and recordings thereof responsive to instructions received e.g. via an API from the agency service or operator device . The provider may receive instructions for configuring and managing a virtual number as part of the provisioning process prior to an incoming call in real time when connecting parties using the virtual number and during controlled calls. In some embodiments the provider communicates directly with the agency operating device and or monitoring device to provision virtual numbers transmit notifications and data or receive instructions. Additionally the provider itself may function as a CSP and vice versa.

The agency service receives requests for provisioning and mapping virtual number from the agency operator device or monitoring device . The requests can include number information for provisioning virtual numbers such as an area code e.g. 555 country code e.g. 44 and or associated CSP. In turn the agency service queries the provider for available virtual numbers matching the request and returns the matching virtual numbers to the requesting entity. The agency service subsequently receives a selection of virtual numbers from the requesting entity and claims the virtual numbers from the provider . The agency service may optionally allow the entity to specify number information such as ANI and or caller identification associated with the virtual number to spoof the number s identity on the network . The agency service in turn transmits instructions to the provider for modifying the number identity. The agency service may optionally verify the spoofed number identity. When a virtual number is no longer needed by the agency A the agency service releases the number back to the provider .

The requests can also include mapping information for configuring claimed virtual number function in a mapping table. Depending on the desired configuration the mapping information may include the transmitting number and or a PIN for authenticating operator devices requesting to administrate a controlled call and or specify the function of the virtual number e.g. for administrating controlled calls . One example mapping request may specify a claimed virtual number for use as a controlled call CC number that operator devices connects to in order to administrate a controlled call over the telephony network between two contacts A B. In one embodiment the request includes the transmitting numbers of operator devices allowed to use the virtual number for controlled calls. Alternatively the request may include a PIN that operators may enter on any device connecting to the virtual number to authenticate the device as an operator device . In response to the request the agency service associates the transmitting numbers or PIN with the virtual number and stores the association in a mapping table.

In practice agency service consults the mapping table to automatically identify a device connecting to a virtual number as the operator device an optionally monitoring devices based on the device s transmitting number. Thus for example an operator of an operator device may simply dial the CC number mapped to the transmitting number of his phone to administrate a controlled call.

In some embodiments personnel with a monitoring device may be enabled to listen in on the controlled call in real time with a mobile or land line phone at the agency A or in the field by having the transmitting number of their devices or a separate PIN associated with the CC number. Accordingly the monitoring device may be authenticated based on its transmitting number or an entered PIN and receive controlled call audio via the CC number.

Additionally embodiments of the agency service can use the mapping of monitoring devices for instructing the provider to automatically dial e.g. from a specified virtual number or otherwise notify e.g. a SMS text message or email monitoring devices when a controlled call is being administrated on a given CC number. The agency service may also notify monitoring devices through the interface or via email.

To prohibit unauthorized access to controlled calling numbers the agency service may allow personnel and operators to specify key ins when provisioning and or mapping virtual numbers. The agency service stores the key ins in the mapping table or other suitable database structure to identify and authenticate callers attempting connections to the virtual numbers responsive to correct key ins. Depending on the embodiment the agency agency service or provider may store the mapping table and or key ins for device identification and authentication.

In some embodiments the agency service may instruct the provider to prompt e.g. Press 2 to make a controlled call the operator after connecting to the CC number to indicate whether the operator desires to make a controlled call. In another example the agency service may prompt the operator to make a selection for administrating a controlled call via a user interface i.e. an interface provided by the CC module on a cell phone or other device. Additionally the agency service may prompt an operator to record a preempt message for documenting the purpose of the controlled call. For example the operator may speak into the operator device after a prompt from the provider or select an option to record a preempt via the interface of the CC module . Received preempts may be stored locally by the provider and or transmitted to the agency service and appliance . The agency service may similarly instruct the provider to prompt the operator for contact device information about the different contact devices .

In some embodiments the agency service queries one or more third party databases for the Caller ID information corresponding to one or more of the contacts . The agency service may use the Caller ID information to verify the validity of contact device information provided by the operator device and or for instructing the provider to use a given number identity e.g. that of the victim s device A for dialing out to a contact. For example the agency service may instruct the provider to the contact device B of the baddie using number information from the contact device A of the victim.

In some embodiments the agency service provides a controlled call CC module to the operator device . The CC module interfaces with the native dialer of the operator device to automate the connection process to a CC number and setup of the controlled call with the contact devices. Additionally the CC module may interface with operator device software and or hardware to utilize features such as a GPS device to collect real time position data and or a microphone to collect audio data. The CC module transmits the collected data over the network back to the agency service or other entity. The agency service in turn may store the collected data for transmission to one or more monitoring devices and the agency . The CC module is described in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments the agency service includes an interface for providing data received from operator devices and controlled call audio between the contacts to various monitoring devices and or appliances over the network . For example the interface may provide monitoring devices and the appliance with data corresponding to the status of one or more controlled calling numbers e.g. in use complete call history etc. and contact device information. If a controlled calling number is in use and the operator device is transmitting real time the interface may stream data such as audio received from the provider during the active transmission GPS coordinates of the operating device and the internet protocol address telephone numbers and or PINs identifying the operator device and the contact devices . In some embodiments the interface syncs collected data prior to transmission or includes tags in the transmitted data for synchronization of playback at the monitoring device or operator device . The interface can also stream or provide for download data from completed controlled call recordings.

In some embodiments the agency service provides a monitoring module to monitoring devices for accessing the interface . The monitoring module transmits requests associated with configuring operator devices and virtual numbers and receiving real time and historic data for controlled calls. For example the monitoring module may provide a user interface or status dashboard with options for provisioning virtual numbers mapping a transmitting number to a given virtual number and assigning PINs for authenticating connections to the virtual number. Additionally the monitoring module may provide a user interface for identifying a virtual number as a CC number in the mapping table. In one embodiment the dashboard provides an option to toggle recording of a controlled call on or off with the agency service . When the recording session is disabled the monitoring device still receives real time data but the agency service appliance and provider do not store copies of the collected data.

The monitoring module may also display real time status information for the operator device including current GPS location tracked GPS location live audio mapping table information and other information collected from the operator device and streamed by the interface . Similarly the monitoring module may be used to access and playback historic activity associated with a given virtual number or operator device . For example the monitoring module may download files associated with an administrated controlled call for playback or stream them. In addition to interfacing with the agency service the monitoring module may interface with an appliance that stores or backs up collected data within the agency . In some embodiments the monitoring module may include functionality of the CC module and vice versa.

In one embodiment the agency includes an appliance for storing data collected by operator devices and controlled call information and audio. The appliance may utilize the monitoring interface provided by the agency service for updating stored data or receive data directly from operator devices . Additionally the appliance may receive audio recorded during the controlled call and any associated transcripts of the audio from the provider or agency service . One example embodiment of the appliance also includes its own interface not shown that enables monitoring devices and operator device to access real time and historic data stored on the appliance for administered controlled calls. Interfaces provided by the agency service or appliance may also be accessible via a web browser for streaming or downloading data and include the same or similar options.

Additionally the appliance and agency service may communicate to intermittently update collected data and records at defined intervals or in response to notifications to download data. During the intervals or notification periods the agency service may process the data and perform any necessary actions as desired by operator devices or monitoring device until the data is transferred to the appliance . In some embodiments the agency service maintains a persistent connection with the appliance to facilitate transfer of real time data collected by operator devices operated in the field.

In one embodiment the agency service insures that it and the provider do not store data collected by operator devices or from a virtual number beyond the time needed to facilitate transfer. However in mission critical situations operators and other agency personnel cannot rely only on the availability of the appliance for storing and maintaining collected data. Consequently if the appliance is unable to take possession of the collected data or goes offline during transfer the agency service and or the provider may maintain possession of the collected data until the appliance is functioning. Furthermore the agency service and or provider may determine whether checksums hashes or sizes of transferred data match the appliance s version prior to deleting stored data.

In some embodiments the agency service maintains a database not shown storing hashes e.g. MD5 SHA etc. that uniquely identify evidentiary files transmitted to the appliance . In the context of criminal investigations the stored hash may serve to prove that recordings and other data on the appliance have not been tampered with or compromised.

In some embodiments the agency service maintains an appliance instead of or in addition to the agency . In such cases the appliance may exist as a dedicated piece of hardware or remote storage. Alternatively embodiments of the appliance may be implemented in a cloud computing and storage stack available on the network .

As shown in the CC module itself includes multiple modules. In the embodiment shown in the CC module includes a connection module GPS module provisioning module caller ID module case module and termination module . In some embodiments the functions are distributed among the modules in a different manner than described herein. Other embodiments have additional and or other modules.

The connection module automates the connection process for dialing out to a virtual number and transmitting of device information for the contact devices of the victim and baddie. The connection module receives input e.g. via a user interface from the operator including a CC number a first transmitting number of a contact device A e.g. that of the victim that will be aware the call is controlled and a second transmitting number of a contact device B that may be unaware the call is controlled.

In some embodiments the connection module further receives authentication information such as a PIN associated with the operator device or the CC number. The connection module transmits the authentication information to the provider and or agency service when connecting to the CC number for authentication of the operator device .

Once a connection between the operator device and the CC number is established the connection module transmits the device information corresponding to the contact devices which the operator desires to setup the controlled call with over the network . The connection module may transmit the device information for the contact devices all at once or as needed during the controlled call process.

In some embodiments the connection module may include an option in a user interface for the operator to indicate whether he desires to record a preempt message. The connection module may also enable the operator to record the preempt message prior to dialing out to the CC number. The connection module may transmit the recorded preempt message to the provider agency service or appliance . The connection module may also include an option in the user interface for the operator to indicate which portions of the controlled call should be recorded. For example the operator may not desire to record any instruction provided to the victim in evidence but require the conversation between the victim and baddie recorded.

Further embodiments of the connection module may also include options in the user interface for the operator to indicate when they desire to proceed to a next phase of the controlled call. For example the operator may indicate in the interface when they desire to contact the victim to provide instructions and later indicate when the victim is ready for the monitored portion of the controlled call with the baddie. These options may also be available through key in commands using the native dialer. In some embodiments the connection module interfaces with the native dialer to transmit one or more commands or data when connected to the network .

The GPS module communicates with a native GPS receiver on the operator device to receive GPS location data. The GPS module may also communicate with other radio receivers and directional mechanisms e.g. compass or accelerometers on the operator device to receive additional location data. The GPS module processes the GPS and radio location data to determine and refine an estimated location measurement for the operator device . The location measurement may include but is not limited to a latitude longitude altitude heading speed associated accuracy measurement and the time and date of recording. The GPS module transmits the determined location measurement over the network the agency service or other entity. In one embodiment the GPS module streams the location measurement in real time.

The provisioning module interfaces with the provider or agency services to provision virtual numbers and modify virtual number assignments and configuration in the field. Alternatively a web browser on the operator device may be used. For example the web browser or provisioning module may present the operator with a list of all virtual numbers associated with a given account with the agency service . Through the interface the operator may provision and modify mapping and configure the virtual numbers as CC numbers.

The caller ID module interfaces with the provider or agency services to modify caller ID or other number information associated with provisioned virtual numbers. For example the caller ID module presents an interface to the operator to specify number information such as location ownership carrier and whether or not any of the information should be restricted or blocked when dialing out e.g. to the contact device A of the victim from a given CC number.

In some embodiments the case module interfaces with the provider agency services or appliance to retrieve activities associated with a given CC number or case number which one or more controlled calls are associated with. For example the case module presents an interface with CC numbers or case numbers that the operator may select for example to view associated controlled call activity. The case module may further provide an interface for the operator to associate contact information e.g. that of the victim and baddie or other information e.g. address book entries with a given CC number or case number. The case module may store the address book entries locally and or remotely with the agency services or appliance .

Additionally the case module may retrieve activities associated with a given transmitting number of an operator device used to administrate one or more controlled calls. For example the case module may transmit the transmitting number of the operator device executing the case module or other PIN information provided by the operator to the agency service or appliance to retrieve information about controlled calls administrated with the device or by the operator.

The termination module provides an interface including a number of call commands to the operator when the controlled call is taking place between the victim and baddie. Call commands may include but are not limed to disconnecting the victim or baddie terminating the connections of all parties and stopping or starting recordings of the controlled call. In response to the selection of a call command by the operator the terminal module transmits the selection command to the provider and or agency service . In turn the provider e.g. directly or in response to instructions from the agency service performs the desired action.

In some embodiments selections within the interface of the termination module are transmitted in the form of key ins or with actions used during a typical call. For example in response to a selection to terminate the connection of all parties the termination module may end or hang up the call through the native dialer. Alternatively the termination module may transmit one or more key in selections such as the or to indicate the operator s command selection within the user interface. The key in selections may be interpreted at the provider and or agency service to perform the desired action. Furthermore actions identified by the provider or agency service from key in selections may be transmitted using the native dialer of the operator device without use of the CC module . Commands that may be transmitted using the native dialer may be available to all operator devices including those that are not executing a CC module .

In some embodiments the CC module and the modules therein interface and communicate with non native devices attached to the operator device . For example audio and location data can be determined from accessories coupled e.g. wired microphone or wirelessly connected e.g. Bluetooth headset to the operator device .

Additionally some or all of the features provided by the CC module may require the operator to enter a specified key in e.g. button press combination password or other personal identification prior to operation or launch.

The agency service queries the provider for virtual numbers matching the specified calling code. The provider returns a list of available virtual numbers to the agency service which in turn transmits the virtual numbers for display to the requestor. The agency service receives one or more virtual number selections and claims each selected virtual number from the provider . The agency service may optionally include corresponding ANI and caller identification information for a virtual number that may be edited on the requesting device or in the web interface. The agency service subsequently stores the modified virtual number information and instructs the provider to update the associated virtual number information.

With one or more virtual numbers claimed the agency service can receive mapping requests for the virtual numbers and in turn map the virtual numbers responsive to information in the mapping request. For example the requestor may be prompted to enter the transmitting number of an operator device for association with a virtual number to be used as a CC number. The agency service stores the transmitting number of the operator device and the CC number in a mapping table e.g. at the agency service or on the appliance . The requestor may modify the mapping at any time without any interruption of service at the receiving number. The requestor may also be prompted to enter a PIN for associated with a virtual number to be used as a CC number. In such cases the PIN number may be stored instead of or in addition to the transmitting number of an operator device .

When an operator device subsequently dials a CC number the agency service authenticates operator device responsive to the transmitting number associated with the CC number. The agency service may further identify the operator device from the mapping table responsive to a PIN provided by the operator. In turn the agency service instructs the provider to connect the operator device to the CC number and provides any additional configuration instructions for the CC number during the controlled calling process. A requestor may re specify the mapping configuration as needed to change or swap transmitting numbers and PINs associated with CC numbers.

Example embodiments of monitoring device mapping to virtual numbers for monitoring controlled calls may be performed in the same or similar fashion as operator device mappings.

When the agency service receives connection requests to CC numbers from the network the agency service authenticates the connecting device as the operator device based on the transmitting number A stored in the mapping table A. In turn the agency service or provider receives connection information for the victim from the operator device and dials the corresponding contact A from the CC number .

Prior to permitting the operator device to administrate a controlled call using the CC number the agency service may wait or instruct the provider to wait for key in of a specified password.

Additionally if a connecting device s number does not match a transmitting number A stored if any for the CC number the agency service may instruct the provider to connect the operator device and prompt for a PIN B associated with the CC number . Thus for example rather than mapping multiple transmitting numbers A to allow multiple operators to use a CC number each operator may use a same PIN B to administrate controlled calls with the CC number. In one embodiment the operator must enter the PIN or key in to enter a PIN e.g. hitting or prior to entering the PIN within a given time period e.g. 2 5 seconds to avoid being disconnected.

Similar precautions may be implemented to authenticate monitoring devices that desire to monitor administrated controlled calls. In some embodiments the mapping tables further include mappings of monitoring device transmitting numbers or separate PINs to explicitly identify monitoring personnel and devices.

For any device dialing the virtual number the provider receives the connection request via the telephony network and identifies the dialed CC number as a virtual number provisioned by agency service . Accordingly in embodiments where the agency service stores the mapping table the provider passes authentication information including the transmitting number of the device and the virtual number to the agency service .

The agency service in turn authenticates the device attempting to connect to the virtual number as an operator device based on agreement of the authentication information with the mapping of the transmitting number and the CC number stored in the mapping table. The agency service in turn instructs the provider to connect the operator device and provides instructions that enable the operator device to setup a controlled call. Example embodiments of setting up the controlled call are explained in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments the operator device may provide additional authentication information to the provider and or agency service such as a PIN for authenticating use of a CC number stored in associated with the PIN in the mapping table. For example an agency may want to enable the option to use unmapped devices as operator devices on a specified CC number. The agency service may instruct the provider to play a generic tone number not available recording or explicit instructions to notify operators that they need to key in a PIN. Depending on the embodiment the operator device may provide the PIN prior to or subsequent to the agency service instructing the provider to connect the operator device .

Based on instructions provided by the agency service and the contact information the provider dials out to the specified transmitting number of the victim s contact device A from the CC number. Thus when the victim receives the connection request on their contact device A the call appears to be coming from the CC number. Accordingly the contact device A will display number information if any e.g. for blocked or restricted number for the CC number rather than the operator device . If the contact device A picks up the provider establishes a connection between the operator device and the contact device e.g. through the CC number or directly as the contact device A will not receive additional number or device information from the operator device .

Once the connection between the operator device and the contact device is established the provider may optionally enable audio communications between two devices. The operator device collects audio data using a microphone coupled to the operator device. The operator device in turn transmits the collected audio data to the provider and contact device A by way of the connection through the CC number. The contact devices may communicate audio data over the network in a similar fashion.

With audio communication enabled between the victim and operator the operator may optionally instruct the victim about the controlled call process before the connection between the victim s contact device A and the baddie s contact device B is established. The operator may indicate e.g. to the agency service and or provider via interface selections provided by the CC module or via key in commands with the native dialer for the provider to record or store or discard the instruction portion of the call for evidence. The operator may provide the selection before during or after instructing the victim. Alternatively the provider may play a predefined message or audio recorded by the operator device for instructing the victim about the controlled call process prior to establishing a connection with the baddie. Once any instruction is complete the provider may play a predefined message informing the operator and or victim when the connection with the baddie is being established.

In some embodiments the operator may indicate via interface selections provided by the CC module or via key in commands with the native dialer that the victim and operator are ready to dial out to the baddie s contact device B and begin the operator monitored portion of the call. For example if the operator is confident that the victim is ready to proceed and speak with the baddie the operator may key in on the native dialer of the contact device.

To begin the monitored portion of the call between the victim and baddie the agency service instructs the provider to dial out to the specified transmitting number of the baddies s contact device B using the number identity e.g. from transmitting number of the victim s contact device A. Thus when the baddie receives the connection request on their contact device B the call appears to originate from the victim. Accordingly the contact device B will display number information for the transmitting number of contact device A rather than the operator device or the CC number.

If the contact device B picks up the provider establishes a connection between the contact device A and the contact device B e.g. through the CC number with audio enabled such that the line of communication appears to be an ordinary call from the victim. However unlike an ordinary call the provider also maintains the existing connection with the operator device . Thus the operator device receives audio data which allows the operator to monitor the call. In order to prevent tipping off the baddie the agency service may instruct the provider to disable audio communications from the operator device to the contact devices .

In addition to monitoring the controlled call the operator device may transmit commands that specify actions the provider and or agency service should take during the controlled call. For example the commands may cause the provider to start or stop recording of audio and disconnect a contact device or otherwise terminating the connection between the contact device A and the contact device B. Termination of the established connection between the contact devices may be performed in a manner consistent with ordinary call functions to avoid tipping off the baddie. For example the operator device may instruct the provider to simulate the victim hanging up on the baddie or the victim s contact device A dropping the call. The controlled call may also be terminated when both contacts A B disconnect on their own as there is no audio for the operator device to monitor .

The provider and or the agency service may update the appliance with recorded audio data from the controlled call. The agency service or provider may also update the appliance with any other data received from the provider and or operator device . For example the provider may transmit data collected from the operator device to the agency service or appliance to update the appliance over the network . Data collected from the operator device may include a recorded preempt message describing the purpose of the controlled call and location data from GPS receivers and other direction mechanisms coupled to the operator device. The operator device may determine a location measurement including the position of the operator device direction and speed of the operator device and associated accuracy of the measurement. In some embodiments the operator device determines and transmits the location measurements in real time to the agency service .

In one embodiment after the controlled call is completed the agency service may notify the operator that the recorded audio is available from the agency service or appliance . For example the agency service may transmit an e mail to the operator or instruct the provider to transmit a text message to the transmitting number of the operator device reading To listen to the controlled call visit URL www.example.com transmittingnumber and enter PIN random . Accordingly by accessing the URL e.g. provided by the interface and entering the PIN the operator may playback the controlled call and or create an account for viewing the controlled calls they administrate.

In one embodiment the monitoring device connects to a CC number for monitoring A the controlled call. The monitoring device may be connected by dialing a CC number directly as described with reference to the operator device in . However instead of authenticating as an operator device for administrating the controlled call the connecting device is identified as a monitoring device e.g. from the mapping table by a transmitting number of the device or a provided PIN .

A connection between the monitoring device and the CC number is established and similarly to the operator device the monitoring device receives the live audio from the controlled call and outgoing audio is disabled. The monitoring device however is unable to control the call. To continue monitoring A the controlled call the monitoring device simply maintains the connection with the CC number.

In another embodiment the monitoring device connects to the agency service and or appliance for monitoring B the controlled call. The monitoring device may establish the connection using a web browser or monitoring module that retrieves or streams collected data via a monitoring interface on the appliance or agency service e.g. monitoring interface .

In one example embodiment the monitoring device streams audio and or location measurements in real time from the agency service . In some embodiments the appliance also supports real time monitoring. In addition the monitoring device can retrieve historical data stored on the appliance to view previously administrated operator device controlled calling sessions . For example when a controlled call recording is complete the session may be replayed on the monitoring device or an operator device by connecting to the appliance or agency service where the evidence recorded data is stored. However for example if the recording was stopped at any point during the controlled call or the recording was canceled a notification may accompany a timeline indicating the portions of that call that were not recorded. Recorded preempt messages may be merged with the call recording or provided as separate audio files for playback.

In some instances the monitoring device receives notifications from the monitoring interface for display in the web browser or with the monitoring module . Example notifications include audio or visual alerts for notifying personnel when the operator device ends the controlled call.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

