---

title: Communication device and display incorporating antennas between display pixels
abstract: A display, such as for a touch-sensitive communication device, can include a transparent cover glass, pixels that emit light through the cover glass, and multiple antennas positioned along respective paths in an inactive area between the pixels. The antennas do not obstruct the light produced by the pixels, and can therefore be composed of opaque materials, such as metallic thin films, without affecting the optical properties of the display. In some examples, several antennas can have the same size and shape but different orientations, so that a radio can switch between or among the antennas to optimize reception. In some examples, the antennas can have different sizes and/or shapes, so that the antennas can send and/or receive radio signals in different frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. In some examples, locating the antennas in the display can allow the device to include a metallic housing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553352&OS=09553352&RS=09553352
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09553352
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140926
---
Embodiments described herein generally relate to wireless communication devices. Some embodiments described herein generally relate to incorporating multiple antennas into display panels.

In a communication device of a relatively small size such as a cellular telephone or smart phone it can be difficult to find space for a radio antenna in an interior of the device. For devices with multiple radio elements each requiring an antenna of a different size it can be even more difficult to find space for the antennas in the interior of the device. For devices having a metallic housing it can be still more difficult because the metallic housing can shield its interior from the radio signals.

The display can include a transparent cover glass pixels that emit light through the cover glass and multiple antennas positioned along respective paths in an inactive area between the pixels. The antennas do not obstruct the light produced by the pixels and can therefore be composed of opaque materials such as metallic thin films without affecting the optical properties of the display . In some examples several antennas can have the same size and shape but different orientations so that a radio can switch between or among the antennas to optimize reception. In some examples the antennas can have different sizes and or shapes so that the antennas can send and or receive radio signals in different frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. In some examples locating the antennas in the display can allow the device to include a metallic housing which would otherwise shield antennas located in the interior of the housing .

In some examples a wireless communication device can include a housing a transparent cover glass facing an exterior of the housing a plurality of pixels configured to controllably emit light outward through the cover glass. The plurality of pixels can be arranged across an area of the cover glass. The plurality of pixels can define an inactive area therebetween within the area of the cover glass. The wireless communication device can further include a first antenna composed of a conductive material and positioned in a first path in the inactive area. The wireless communication device can further include a second antenna disposed on or within the housing away from the cover glass. The wireless communication device can further include a first radio element electrically coupled to one of the first antenna or the second antenna. For these examples the wireless communication device can include switching circuitry that can switch the first radio element between the first and second antennas. The switching circuitry can switch to whichever antenna has better reception. In each of the configurations shown in the Figures and discussed below the wireless communication device can include one or more additional antennas on or within the housing of the device. The additional antennas can include sizes and shapes selected to receive suitable wavelength or frequency regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. The device can include additional switching devices to switch between or among the various antennas both included in the display and included in the housing but away from the display.

The communication device includes a housing and a display on the housing . The display can include a transparent cover glass which is not shown in but would be parallel to the plane of the page and would face a user.

The display can include a plurality of pixels configured to controllably emit light through the cover glass. The plurality of pixels can be arranged across an area of the cover glass. The plurality of pixels can define an inactive area therebetween within the area of the cover glass. In some examples the inactive area can be used for locating circuitry that powers the pixels and for removing heat generated by the pixels .

In the example of the pixels are arranged in a rectangular grid. This is but one example and other pixel arrangements can be used including triangular or hexagonal array polar arrays and other suitable arrays.

In some examples each pixel can include elements that controllably emit red green and blue light respectively. The elements can be electrically coupled to circuitry that controls the relative and or absolute amounts of red green and blue light so that the plurality of pixels can display a full color multi pixel image and or a full color multi image video signal. In other examples one or more of the pixels can be monochromatic.

The display can include a first antenna composed of a conductive material such as aluminum copper or another suitable metal or metal alloy. In some examples the first antenna can be formed by growing or depositing a thin metallic film on another element.

The first antenna can be positioned in a first path in the inactive area . In the example of the first antenna is a horizontally elongated rectangle. Other shapes for the first antenna are possible including squares crosses polygons tree like shapes and others. In some examples the shapes can include lines and curves that do not follow a rectangular grid but can be well approximated in a step wise fashion by the grid of pixels .

The display can include a second antenna composed of a conductive material and positioned in a second path in the inactive area different from the first path. In some examples the first and second antennas are composed of the same conductive materials in other examples first and second antennas are composed of different conductive materials.

The first and second antennas can be couple by first and second connections to a switch . An output of the switch can be connected to a first radio element . The communication device can include switching circuitry that can control the switch so that the first radio element can be controllably switched between first antenna and the second antenna . In other examples the display can include more than two antennas.

In some examples such as the example of the first and second paths have the same size and shape but different orientations within the inactive area . For instance the first antenna can be shaped as a horizontally elongated rectangle while the second antenna can be shaped as a vertically elongated rectangle both with respect to the plane of the page of . Antennas having the same size and shape are tuned to send and receive the same band of frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum. Using two or more antennas tuned to the same frequency band but with different orientations can allow the device to switch between or among the antennas as needed such as to improve reception. In some examples the device can include processing circuitry configured to determine which antenna of the first and second antennas has better reception and direct the switching circuitry to electrically couple the first radio element to the antenna of the first and second antennas having better reception.

In some examples the display can include touch sensitivity. For instance the display can prompt a user by displaying images of one or more buttons and a user can select an appropriate button by touching the display in the area of one of the displayed buttons. In some examples it may be desirable to avoid contact between a finger of the user and an antenna because such contact may temporarily disrupt reception of radio signals to and or from the contacted antenna. For these examples it may be desirable to temporarily switch to an antenna that is outside the area of the selectable buttons or any other features that would prompt a touch response from a user. In some examples the device can include processing circuitry configured to determine a non selectable area of the display that is devoid of user selectable features and direct the switching circuitry to electrically couple the first radio element to an antenna of the first and second antennas located within the non selectable area.

A first radio element can be electrically coupled by connection to the first antenna . A second radio element can be electrically coupled by connection to the second antenna . In some examples the first and second radio elements can be configured to receive radio signals in different frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. For instance the first and second radio elements can include two of WiFi Bluetooth 3G 4G LTE GPS NFC FM and others many of which use different frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum and therefore can use different sized antennas tuned to the particular frequency ranges. In other examples the device can include more than two radio elements. In some examples the first radio element can be used for cellular communications. In some examples the second radio element can be used for WiFi communications.

The layered structure includes a cover glass . Light emerges from the cover glass toward an eye of a user. In the example of the layered structure is touch sensitive so that a user can provide input to the communication by touching various locations on the cover glass . The touch sensitivity can be dynamic with buttons and other controls appearing as needed.

The layered structure can include layers having touch sensitivity such as layers . The layered structure can include layers that control a light output of the plurality of pixels such as layers . In other examples the touch sensitivity layers and the light control layers can be rearranged as needed.

In the example of light originates at the bottommost element of the layered structure and propagates upward. In the example of back light produces generally featureless light. The generally featureless light extends across multiple pixels and has an intensity that varies relatively slowly. The intensity of the generally featureless light does not vary at a frame rate of the display. The generally featureless light is selectively attenuated downstream in a pixel by pixel manner by the light control layers such as . In some examples the back light produces white light such as with one or more white light light emitting diodes LEDs . In other examples the back light produces light that is colored to match an average color of at least a portion of the image displayed on the display such as with one or more red green and blue LEDs.

The light control layers include a bottom polarizer a thin film transistor glass a thin film transistor a liquid crystal a color filter a color filter glass and a top polarizer . The light control layers as shown in are referred to as a TFT layer design. Other suitable designs can be used and are compatible with the antennas shown in .

In addition the antennas of can be used with a display in which each pixel produces its own light rather than attenuates light from a back light . For instance in a display using three or more differently colored organic light emitting diodes OLEDs for each pixel the antennas of can be positioned in an inactive area between the pixels.

The touch sensitive layers include a touch glass a touch sensor and an air gap or adhesive that can compress in response to the effect of a user s touch. The touch sensitive layers is but one example other suitable touch sensitive layers and configurations can also be used.

In some examples such as the example of the touch sensitive layers can be located closest to the cover glass . Locating the touch sensitive layers close to the cover glass can improve sensitivity to the user s touch which can be desirable. In other examples one or more of the touch sensitive layers can be located further away from the cover glass in the layered structure.

There are several locations within the layered structure that can accommodate antennas such as the antennas shown in . At location A an antenna can be positioned on the cover glass . At location B an antenna can be positioned under the cover glass . At location C an antenna can be positioned on the touch glass . At location D an antenna can be positioned between the air gap or adhesive and the top polarizer . At location E an antenna can be positioned within the color filter glass . At location F an antenna can be positioned within the thin film transistor . These are but six examples of locations within the layered structure that can accommodate an antenna other suitable locations can also be used.

In some examples a first antenna and a second antenna can be disposed between a first pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure. This configuration can be used for antennas that do not overlap when viewed end on such as in the views of .

In some examples a first antenna can be disposed between a first pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure and a second antenna can disposed between a second pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure different from the first pair. This configuration can be used for any antennas regardless of whether the antennas overlap.

In some examples the layered structure can accommodate more than two antennas. For these examples all some or none of the more than two antennas can overlap when viewed end on such as in the views of .

At method electrically couples a first radio element to a first antenna. The first antenna can be composed of a conductive material and positioned in a first path in an inactive area between light emitting pixels of a display.

At method electrically couples the first radio element to a second antenna. The second antenna can be composed of a conductive material and positioned in a second path in the inactive area the second path differing from the first path.

In some examples the first and second paths can have the same size and shape but different orientations within the inactive area.

The embodiments described above can be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory hard drives portable storage devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media and any other machine readable storage medium or storage device wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer or networking device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques.

A machine readable storage medium or other storage device can include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . In the case of program code executing on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system machine can further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system machine can additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which can include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system machine with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium can include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions.

The instructions can further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the devices and methods described above include two or more antennas in the inactive area between display pixels there can be alternatives that use only a single antenna disposed in the inactive area between display pixels. This single antenna can be sized shaped and oriented in any suitable manner in the inactive display. This single antenna can be located in any suitable location within a layered structure such as the layered structure shown in . In some of these alternatives there can also be one or more antennas positioned in an interior of the device. These interior antennas can be switched along with the single antenna on the display in a manner similar to the switching configuration of .

Although the devices and methods described above include two or more antennas in the inactive area between display pixels there can be alternatives that use one or more antennas composed of a relatively transparent material such as Indium Tin Oxide ITO . One or more of the transparent antennas can be located anywhere on the display not just in the inactive area between display pixels. In general the alignment requirement of an antenna to the pixel geometry can be relaxed based on the transparency characteristics of the antenna material. The transparent antennas can be located in any suitable location within a layered structure such as the layered structure shown in .

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification can have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples can stand on its own or can be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 is a display comprising a transparent cover glass a plurality of pixels configured to controllably emit light through the cover glass the plurality of pixels arranged across an area of the cover glass the plurality of pixels defining an inactive area therebetween within the area of the cover glass a first antenna composed of a conductive material and positioned in a first path in the inactive area and a second antenna composed of a conductive material and positioned in a second path in the inactive area different from the first path.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include wherein the first and second paths have the same size and shape and different orientations within the inactive area.

In Example 3 the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 2 can optionally include a first radio element and switching circuitry configured to switch between electrically coupling the first radio element to the first antenna and electrically coupling the first radio element to the second antenna.

In Example 4 the subject matter of Examples 1 or 3 can optionally include wherein the first and second paths differ in at least one of size or shape within the inactive area.

In Example 5 the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 3 or 4 can optionally include a first radio element electrically coupled to the first antenna and a second radio element electrically coupled to the second antenna the first and second radio elements configured to receive radio signals in different frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum.

In Example 6 the subject matter of any one of Examples 1 5 can optionally include wherein the cover glass is part of a layered structure wherein the layered structure includes layers having touch sensitivity and wherein the layered structure includes layers that control a light output of the plurality of pixels.

In Example 7 the subject matter of Example 6 can optionally include wherein the first antenna and the second antenna are disposed between a first pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure.

In Example 8 the subject matter of Example 6 can optionally include wherein the first antenna is disposed between a first pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure and wherein the second antenna is disposed between a second pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure different from the first pair.

Example 9 is a wireless communication device comprising a housing a transparent cover glass facing an exterior of the housing a plurality of pixels the plurality of pixels configured to controllably emit light outward through the cover glass the plurality of pixels arranged across an area of the cover glass the plurality of pixels defining an inactive area therebetween within the area of the cover glass a first antenna composed of a conductive material and positioned in a first path in the inactive area a second antenna disposed on or within the housing away from the cover glass and a first radio element electrically coupled to one of the first antenna or the second antenna.

In Example 10 the subject matter of Example 9 can optionally include wherein the first and second antennas have the same size and shape but different orientations.

In Example 11 the subject matter of Example 10 can optionally include switching circuitry configured to switch between electrically coupling the first radio element to the first antenna and electrically coupling the first radio element to the second antenna.

In Example 12 the subject matter of Example 11 can optionally include processing circuitry configured to determine which antenna of the first and second antennas has better reception and direct the switching circuitry to electrically couple the first radio element to the antenna of the first and second antennas having better reception.

In Example 13 the subject matter of Example 11 or 12 can optionally include a third antenna composed of a conductive material and positioned in a second path in the inactive area different from the first path and processing circuitry configured to determine a non selectable area of the display that is devoid of user selectable features and direct the switching circuitry to electrically couple the first radio element to an antenna of the first and third antennas located within the non selectable area.

In Example 14 the subject matter of Example 13 can optionally include wherein the cover glass is part of a layered structure wherein the layered structure includes layers having touch sensitivity and wherein the layered structure includes layers that control a light output of the plurality of pixels.

In Example 15 the subject matter of Example 14 can optionally include wherein the first antenna and the third antenna are disposed between a first pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure.

In Example 16 the subject matter of Example 14 can optionally include wherein the first antenna is disposed between a first pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure and wherein the third antenna is disposed between a second pair of adjacent layers in the layered structure different from the first pair.

In Example 17 the subject matter of Example 9 can optionally include wherein the first and second antennas differ in at least one of size or shape within the inactive area.

In Example 18 the subject matter of Example 17 can optionally include wherein the first radio element is electrically coupled to the first antenna and further comprising a second radio element electrically coupled to the second antenna the first and second radio elements configured to receive radio signals in different frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum.

Example 19 is a method for operating a wireless communication device comprising electrically coupling a first radio element to a first antenna the first antenna being composed of a conductive material and positioned in a first path in an inactive area between light emitting pixels of a display electrically decoupling the first radio element from the first antenna and electrically coupling the first radio element to a second antenna the second antenna composing a conductive material and positioned in a second path in the inactive area the second path differing from the first path.

In Example 20 the subject matter of Example 19 can optionally include wherein the first and second paths have the same size and shape but different orientations within the inactive area.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

