---

title: Automatic video service actions based on social networking affinity relationships
abstract: An affinity mapping service system allowing a video service provider to perform one or more automatic actions related to a video content item (e.g., automatically recording the video content item, recommending similar video content, automatically tuning to a channel airing the video content item, providing a notification when the video content item is airing, etc.) based on an affinity selection made by a user for a content object related to the video content item is provided. The user is enabled to selectively pair a social networking service identifier (e.g., username, handle, etc.) with a video service account. An affinity selection made by the user via a social networking service in association with a video content item is communicated to the video service provider and mapped to an automatic action for the video service provider to take based on action preferences selected by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277257&OS=09277257&RS=09277257
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09277257
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141103
---
Video content providers television networks and the like are using social media technologies to help improve and promote their content. For example many shows programs and movies are represented in webpages and or in various social networking services via blogs microblogs pages and the like via which users can read up on certain episodes learn more about the actors find out interesting facts about the show program or movie etc. Additionally functionalities are typically provided for enabling users to communicate or share what they like enjoy and or to support certain content. For example webpages and social networking services oftentimes display a selectable feature with content which when selected conveys a user s affinity for the content with which the feature is displayed. Selection of an affinity option by a user may encourage other people to view the content on the webpage blog microblog or social networking system page and may also provide feedback to the video content provider television network etc. of users interest in the content.

It is with respect to these and other considerations that aspects of the present disclosure have been made.

Aspects of the present disclosure provide for automatically performing an action within a video service based on an identified social networking affinity relationship between a video service subscriber and a content object related to a video content item. Aspects of an affinity mapping service system allow a video service provider to perform one or more automatic actions related to a video content item e.g. automatically recording the video content item recommending similar video content automatically tuning to a channel airing the video content item providing a notification when the video content item is airing etc. based on an affinity selection made by a user for a content object related to the video content item. The user is enabled to selectively pair a social networking service identifier e.g. username handle etc. with a video service account. An affinity selection made by the user via a social networking service in association with a video content item is communicated to the video service provider and mapped to an automatic action for the video service provider to take based on action preferences selected by the user.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

An affinity mapping service system and accompanying method are described herein and are illustrated in the accompanying figures. The system allows a video service subscriber user herein referred to as a user to associate a social networking service identifier e.g. social networking username or handle with a video service provider account and select preferences regarding automatic actions that the user would like for the video service provider to take based on an affinity relationship between the user and a social networking service content object related to a video content item.

An affinity relationship is created between the user and a social networking content object e.g. service blog microblog page video clip photo advertisement etc. related to a video service provider supported video content item herein referred to as a social video content item when the user selects an affinity user interface UI component associated with the social networking content object. For example the user may click on an affinity UI component e.g. a like button on a social networking service page for a particular television show and an edge relationship is created between the user and the social networking service page for the particular television show in a social networking service social graph.

The video service provider can request information from the social networking service for example via a call to a social networking service graph application programming interface API . According to an aspect the video service provider may query the graph for content objects related to video content items for which a specific video service user has selected an affinity UI component or the video service provider may query the graph for video service users who have selected an affinity UI component for a specific content object related to a video content item.

The requested information is communicated to the video service provider where it can be parsed for relevant affinity relationships for example relationships between a specific video service user and one or more video content items or between a specific video content item and one or more video service users. Affinity relationships are indexed in the video service provider system and an association is made between the each user s social networking service identifier and his her video service provider account. The video service provider s video content programming lineup for each user is queried and an action within the video service is performed for each available video content item with which a user has an affinity relationship. Examples of actions performed within the video service for a video content item with which a user has an affinity relationship include but are not limited to automatically scheduling a recording of the video content item to the user s digital video recorder DVR providing recommendations of similar video content items automatically tuning to a channel airing the video content item notifying the user when the specific social video content item is airing etc. . The action is based on preferences made by the user for automatic actions for the video service provider to perform upon receiving an indication of an affinity relationship between the user and a video content item.

Components of the affinity mapping service system may operate as a distributed system where each component is accessed via a suitable network or various components of the system may operate together as an integrated system. As illustrated the affinity mapping service system includes an affinity mapping manager in communication with a video content server . The video content server streams video content items to customer endpoint devices over a network . Networks suitable for use with the affinity mapping service system may include but are not limited to one or more of a television service provider content delivery network the Internet a wide area network and a local area network. Examples of suitable endpoint devices include but are not limited to digital set top boxes STBs personal computers tablet computing devices smart phones smart televisions digital media players and game consoles. A user agent running on the endpoint device receives the content stream and renders the video content item on a display associated with the endpoint device .

Video content items may be live or pre recorded programs streamed as linear programming e.g. the program lineup on a particular channel . Video content items also encompass non linear programming from a video on demand system. The affinity mapping manager may be in communication with one or more data systems such as but not limited to a video content item data system a user profile data system an index data system a recommendation system and a DVR system . Programming lineups and a listing of available video on demand content items stored in a video content item system may be communicated with the video content server and the affinity mapping manager .

The affinity mapping service system includes one or more social networking services with which the affinity mapping manager is in communication. Video content items that are available on the video service provider network may be represented in a social networking service by a content object such as a social networking service page blog microblog a video clip a photo an advertisement etc. A selectable affinity UI component is linked to and displayed with the content object. When a user selects an affinity UI component displayed with the content object a record of the interaction may be stored by the social networking service for example an affinity relationship edge is created between the user and the content object and stored in a social graph. According to an aspect the selectable affinity UI component is a video service provider provided UI component that is integrated and displayed with the content object. According to another aspect the selectable affinity UI component is an existing social networking service UI component for example a like button displayed with the content object. Selection of the UI component by a user will herein be referred to as an affinity selection.

A user agent e.g. a television service provider guide or viewer application running on the endpoint device or on the network may provide a user interface for receiving user input including a social networking service identifier e.g. a username or handle and user preferences regarding automatic actions that a user would like for the video service provider to take upon receiving an indication of a user affinity selection via a social networking service . For example the user can specify for one or more of the following actions to be performed when a selection of the affinity UI component displayed with a content object related to a video content item on a webpage or in a social networking service blog microblog or page is made by the user automatically scheduling a recording of the specific social video content item to the user s DVR A B providing recommendations of similar video content items automatically tuning to the specific social video content item when it is airing and or notifying the user when the specific social video content item is airing. Additional information may be provided by the user for example permission for the video service provider to access the user s affinity selection information from the social networking service a mobile phone number or email address for receiving a notification when the specific social video content item is airing etc.

Social networking service identifiers action preferences selected by the user or default actions if the user has not specified his her preferences and additional user input e.g. permissions mobile phone numbers e mail addresses etc. are communicated to the affinity mapping manager and stored in the user profile data system . Additional video service account information for the user may be stored in the user profile data system such as endpoint device identifiers e.g. user s STB media access control MAC address user s DVR MAC address etc. the video content lineup available to the user e.g. based on region subscription etc. user entitlements and user restrictions e.g. parental controls . According to an aspect the user profile data system may also store information associated with the user s viewing history demographic information and video content preferences.

The index data system stores a listing of the video service provider s social networking system promoted shows i.e. social video content items . In other words video content items represented by a content object in a webpage or a social networking service e.g. blog microblog page video clip photo advertisement etc. and which have an affinity UI component displayed for communicating user affinity selections to the affinity mapping manager are indexed in the index data system . According to an aspect the listing of social video content items may be indexed in a table. According to another aspect a listing of users social networking service identifiers and the users associated video service account identifiers may be indexed in the index data system .

An indication of an affinity selection for a content object related to a social video content item made by a user via a social networking service is communicated to the affinity mapping manager and stored in the index data system .

According to an aspect the affinity mapping manager makes a request for content objects for which a specific video service user has selected an affinity UI component. For example the affinity mapping manager can make a request for the user s affinity selections. A request may be an active request e.g. a pull or the affinity mapping manager can request to receive updates when a change in data related to the user s affinity selections occurs e.g. a push .

The user s affinity selections returned to the affinity mapping manager may include content objects that are of interest to the video service provider and content objects that are not of interest to the video service provider or may only include content objects that are of interest to the video service provider. For example if the user selects an affinity UI component that is provided by the video service provider i.e. a dedicated affinity UI component not a general affinity UI component such as a like or share button for a content object related to a social video content item the affinity selection can be categorized as a social video content affinity. Accordingly when the affinity mapping manager makes a request for a user s affinity selections the affinity mapping manager can request for only the user s social video content affinity selections. The information returned to the affinity mapping manager may include an identifier of the social video content item represented by the content object for which the user made an affinity selection.

However if the user selects a general affinity UI component provided by the social networking service such as a like or share button the request for a user s affinity selections may return the user s content object affinity selections that are relevant to the video service provider as well as the user s content object affinity selections that are not relevant to the video service provider. Accordingly the information returned to the affinity mapping manager may need to be parsed for affinity relationships between the user and content objects related to social video content items.

According to another aspect the affinity mapping manager makes a request for users who have made an affinity selection for a specific content object related to a video content item. For example the affinity mapping manager can make a request on behalf of a specific content object such as a social networking service page promoting a television program for a listing of users who have affinitively selected the specific content object. A request may be an active request e.g. a pull or the affinity mapping manager can request to receive updates when a change in data related to affinity selections of the content object occurs e.g. a push . The information returned to the affinity mapping manager may include social networking service identifiers e.g. usernames or handles of the users who have made an affinity selection for the content object.

The information returned to the affinity mapping manager may include users who are of interest to the video service provider and users who are not of interest to the video service provider or may only include users who are of interest to the video service provider. For example users who are not subscribers to the video service provider may make an affinity selection for a content object related to a social video content item via a general affinity UI component provided by the social networking service such as a like or share button. Accordingly when the affinity mapping manager makes a request for users who have affinitively selected the content object the reply may include both video service provider subscribers and users who are not subscribers to the video service provider. Thus the information returned to the affinity mapping manager may need to be parsed for social networking service identifiers of the video service provider s subscribers.

The affinity mapping manager parses the information received from the social networking service if necessary and passes users social networking identifiers and the identifiers of the social video content item for which the users have made an affinity selection to the index data system for indexing. Affinity relationships between users and social video content items may be indexed in a table. For example a user s social networking service identifier is added to the table as a registered fan of the social video content item.

The affinity mapping manager is operable to associate the user s social networking service identifier with the user s video service provider account retrieve the video service provider s video content programming lineup for the user stored in the video content item data system and compare the programming lineup with the table of social video content items stored in the index data system . When a match is found between the video service provider s video content programming lineup available to the user and the social video content items for which the user is a registered fan i.e. the social video content items with which the user has an affinity relationship the affinity mapping manager looks up the user s video service provider account user profile information e.g. action preferences selected by the user or default actions if the user has not specified his her preferences endpoint device identifiers e.g. user s STB MAC address user s DVR MAC address etc. user entitlement and restrictions and additional user information needed to perform the actions selected by the user .

The affinity mapping manager is further operable to send requests associated with the user selected actions to the appropriate systems. For example if the user selects automatic tuning to video content items with which the user has an affinity relationship the affinity mapping manager is operable to send a request to the user s STB according to the endpoint device identifier e.g. STB MAC address to automatically tune the STB at the appropriate time according to the programming lineup to the channel airing the social video content item.

As another example if the user selects automatic recording of video content items with which the user has an affinity relationship the affinity mapping manager is operable to send a request to the user s DVR system A B according to the endpoint device identifier e.g. DVR MAC address to record the video content item when the video content item airs. The DVR system may be a network DVR system B where recorded content is stored in a network based data store and accessible via various endpoint devices a local DVR system A where recorded content is stored in a locally based data store and accessible to a local endpoint device or a combination of a network and local DVR system e.g. a network based scheduling system for a locally based DVR system . According to an aspect a local DVR system A is connected to or integrated with a set top box STB in communication with a television set.

As another example if the user selects to be notified when a video content item with which the user has an affinity relationship is airing the affinity mapping manager is operable to send a notification to the user via the network for example a short message service SMS text to the user s mobile phone according to the user s profile data an email message to the user s email mailbox according to the user s profile data or a message such as a pop up message to the user agent e.g. a television service provider guide or viewer application running on an endpoint device .

As another example if a user selects to receive recommendations similar to video content items with which the user has an affinity relationship the affinity mapping manager may communicate the video content item associated with the user s social networking system affinity selection to the recommendation system . According to an aspect the recommendation system is operable to compare metadata on the video content item associated with the user s social networking system affinity selection with metadata on other available video content items and recommend one or more video content items to the user according to a similarity e.g. topic actors producer genre etc. to the video content item with which the user has an affinity relationship. In various aspects the recommendation system is in communication with the user profile data system and is operable to select recommended video content items based on information known about the user such as the user s viewing history demographic information about the user the user s video content preferences and the user s entitlements and restrictions. The affinity mapping manager receives the recommendations determined by the recommendation system and provides the recommendations to the user via the user agent .

The social video service may include a cache operable to store various types of information. For example for a given session data relating to a user s preferences affinity selections or consumption patterns may be temporarily stored in the cache for use by the affinity mapping manager before the data is stored in the user preference data system index data system or recommendation system . The cache is illustrated in as a remote element but may be integrated with the affinity mapping manager .

According to aspects the affinity mapping manager may be a software application having sufficient computer executable instructions for performing the functions described herein. The affinity mapping manager may operate as part of a video content service provider system or as a standalone application or service that may be called on by a social networking service or a video content service provider system for providing the functionality described herein.

As shown in the example illustrated in a list of social networking system identifiers for subscribers of the video content service provider who have indicated an affinity for a social video content item via a social networking service affinity selection is indexed with the social video content item . Accordingly an affinity relationship is created between the subscriber users and the social video content item . For example an affinity relationship is created between the subscriber users associated with social networking system identifiers johnWhite bobSmith and markStan and the social video content item Nation s Top Dancing. Users who have an affinity relationship with a social video content item may be referred to as fans or registered fans of the social video content item .

As described above the affinity mapping manager is operable to associate a user s social networking service identifier with the user s video service provider account to retrieve the user s user profile data . According to an aspect a user s social networking service identifier and associated video service account identifier may be indexed in the index data system . The affinity mapping manager may query the index data system using a user s social networking service identifier to find the user s video service account identifier . The user s user profile data may then be retrieved.

As illustrated in the video service provider account user profile data for the user associated with the social networking system identifier markStan includes the user s video service provider account identifier the user s social networking system identifier the user s recording preference recommendation preference and notification preference for social video content items with which the user has an affinity relationship the user s DVR MAC address and a video programming lineup available to the user based on the user s geographic location permissions restrictions subscription etc. Accordingly the retrieved user profile data may be used to perform the actions selected by the user .

According to an aspect the affinity UI component may be a general UI component A for example an existing social networking service UI component such as a like button or other button or functionality that users can select to express a positive reaction to a content object . When an affinity selection is made by a user by selecting the general UI component A an affinity relationship may be created between the user and the content item . According to an aspect when the affinity mapping manager makes a request for a user s affinity selections the affinity mapping manager an identifier for the content items such as the illustrated content item with which the user has an affinity relationship may be communicated in a reply to the affinity mapping manager .

As should be appreciated the affinity UI components A B illustrated and described herein are for purposes of example only and are not restrictive of other affinity UI components and functionalities that may be provided for allowing a user to indicate an affinity for a content object related to a social video content item . In addition user interaction with the an affinity UI component A B may be accomplished through any suitable means including touch voice keyboard selection mouse click gesture and the like. According to an aspect upon selection of an affinity UI component A B one or more interfaces may be presented for obtaining information from the user or for redirecting the user to another site for obtaining information such as video content service provider selection payment information authentication information permissions information etc.

According to another aspect during the setup OPERATION dedicated affinity UI components B may be linked to content objects related to the social video content items available on the video service provider network and which have been selected for inclusion for the affinity mapping service.

The method proceeds to an indexing OPERATION where the one or more video service provider supported video content items social video content items are indexed in the index data system . According to an aspect a social networking service identifier for content objects related to the social video content items may be included.

At setup OPERATION a setup interface is provided to a user via which the user can register for the affinity mapping service and input his her social networking service identifier and other information such as the user s social networking service identifier and user preferences regarding automatic actions that the user would like for the video service provider to take upon receiving an indication of an affinity selection via the social networking service . According to an aspect by enrolling in the affinity mapping service the user may give the video service provider permission to retrieve the user s affinity selection information from the social networking service . Additional information may be provided by the user such as a password associated with the social networking service identifier a mobile phone number and or email address for receiving a text notification when the specific social video content item is airing etc. The user input is received and stored in the user profile data system . The received user input may be associated with other user profile data for the user e.g. the user s video service provider subscriber identifier media access control MAC addresses of the user s endpoint devices the video programming lineup available to the user e.g. based on region subscription etc. user entitlements user restrictions e.g. parental controls the user s viewing history demographic information video content preferences etc. .

At OPERATION a subscriber user makes an affinity selection for a content object related to a social video content item . For example the user may select an affinity UI component A B linked to an advertisement content object for a television show social video content item that is included in the affinity mapping service.

At OPERATION affinity relationship information is received. The received affinity relationship information may include the user s user social networking identifier and an identifier for the social video content item related to the content object affinitively selected by the user at OPERATION . According to an aspect the affinity mapping manager may make a call to a social networking service graph API to request affinity relationship information. According to another aspect updates of an affinity mapping service user s affinity relationship changes and or updates of affinity relationship changes of a content object related to a social video content item may be automatically sent to the affinity mapping manager as they occur.

According to an aspect the received affinity relationship information may be parsed at optional parsing OPERATION . As described above the affinity mapping manager may request and receive affinity relationship information in various ways. For example the affinity mapping manager can make a request on behalf of a user for content objects for which the user has made an affinity selection. Accordingly the affinity mapping manager may receive the user s affinity selections which may or may not include affinitity selections other than for content objects related to social video content items . For example if the user selects an affinity UI component A for a photo posted by the user s friend the affinity relationship between the user and the photo may not be of interest to the video service provider but may be included in the received affinity relationship information.

As another example the affinity mapping manager can make a request on behalf of a content object related to a social video content item for users who have made an affinity selection for the content object . Accordingly the affinity mapping manager may receive a listing of users who have affinitively selected the content object which may or may not include users who are not subscribers to the video service provider. The users who are not subscribers to the video service provider may not be of interest to the video service provider. Accordingly affinity relationship information that is not of interest to the video service provider may be parsed at optional parsing OPERATION . According to an aspect the affinity relationship information may be parsed by matching received user social networking service identifiers with indexed subscriber social networking service identifiers. According to another aspect the affinity relationship information may be parsed by matching received content object identifiers or social video content item identifiers with indexed content object identifiers or social video content identifiers.

At indexing OPERATION the user s social networking service identifier is indexed with the social video content item for which the user made an affinity selection. The user may be referred to as a registered fan of the social video content item .

At association OPERATION an association is made between the user s social networking service identifier and the user s video service provider account to retrieve the user s user profile data . For example the affinity mapping manager may user the user s social networking service identifier to query the index data system for the user s video service account identifier to retrieve the user s user profile data from the user profile data system . As described above the user s user profile data includes the video programming lineup to which the user is subscribed. The affinity mapping manager queries the video content item system for the video programming lineup to which the user is subscribed and for available video on demand content items.

If the social video content item with which the user has an affinity relationship is included in the video programming lineup or in the list of available video on demand content items the user profile data is queried for action preferences selected by the user or default actions if the user has not specified his her preferences for example the user s recording preference recommendation preference and notification preference . If the social video content item with which the user has an affinity relationship is not included in the video programming lineup or in the list of available video on demand content items the affinity mapping manager may continually query the video content item system for social video content items with which the user has an affinity relationship.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where the affinity mapping manager performs or schedules the actions to be performed as specified by the user . For example the user may be provided with recommendations of video content items similar to the social video content item and or when the social video content item airs the user may be provided with a notification and or the social video content item may be automatically recorded to the user s DVR A B.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory device a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface and a display unit . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules. The memory device includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data or computer executable instructions. Memory device thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processing system provide integration of content functionality with social network accounts as described above with reference to .

In various embodiments the memory device is implemented in various ways. For example the memory device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to aspects the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media includes information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures and program modules may be embodied on a communications medium. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium and the plural computer readable storage media refers only to devices and articles of manufacture that store data or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. Computer readable storage medium does not include communications media. The term computer readable storage medium encompasses volatile and nonvolatile and removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface . In different embodiments the network interface is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the computing device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory device the processing system the network interface the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory device stores various types of data or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory device stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory device also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. The memory device also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs. Embodiments of the present invention may be used in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the mobile computing device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the mobile computing device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the mobile computing device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be used for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to an aspect application software to practice aspects of the present invention may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the mobile computing device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be used to communicate with a wireless or Wi Fi based positioning system to determine a device s location.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via STB in communication with a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer mobile computing device etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television set the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television set at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be used by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems . According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the STB passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television set via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be used for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the STB for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 400 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the STB comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side STB and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via television sets . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side STB via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the STB the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side STB . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the STB . For example content data and metadata of a third party service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded third party services the middleware layer may be used to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the STB . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the STB through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be used by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the STB .

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

An email system may include information such as user accounts usernames address books archived messages subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords used by customer for access to electronic mail services.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords used by customers for access to network services. A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by an STB identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types used by the disparate data services systems . The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Aspects of the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers mobile communication device systems and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be used in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Aspects for example are described above with reference to block diagrams or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to . For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain aspects have been described other aspects may exist. Furthermore although aspects have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the aspects.

The foregoing description of aspects of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

