---

title: Defining multi-channel tests system and method
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system for defining, at a computing device, one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. One or more keyword keywords, each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels, are defined. One or more test scenarios is defined, wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios includes at least one keyword implementation of the one or more keywords.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311216&OS=09311216&RS=09311216
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09311216
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141124
---
The subject application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application with Ser. No. 14 178 966 filed on Feb. 12 2014 the entire content of which is herein incorporated by reference.

With the explosive growth in popularity of smart mobile devices and other ways of accessing IT systems businesses and developers that build and test their associated IT systems may find it useful to expand coverage and validate the growing numbers of ways users may access these systems. These different ways of accessing the same IT system and content may be viewed as different channels for dissemination of the same information. Testing of different channels may be handled by e.g. defining different environments that may need to be tested and then building unique test scripts for each environment.

In one implementation a method performed by one or more computing devices may include but is not limited to defining at a computing device one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. One or more keyword keywords each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels may be defined. One or more test scenarios may be defined wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios may include at least one keyword implementation of the one or more keywords.

One or more of the following features may be included. The at least one test scenario may be executed wherein the at least one test scenario may include one or more keyword steps and at least one channel of the one or more channels. The at least one channel of the one or more channels may be specified external to the at least one test scenario. Testing each step in the at least one test scenario may include selecting the at least one keyword implementation based upon at least in part a relationship between the at least one keyword implementation and the at least one channel. The one or more keyword implementations may include a unique implementation for multiple channels. The at least one test scenario may include a plurality of channels. The at least one test scenario may include a weighting function based upon at least in part the number of steps that are to be run on each of the one or more channels.

In another implementation a computing system includes a processor and a memory configured to perform operations that may include but are not limited to defining one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. One or more keyword keywords each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels may be defined. One or more test scenarios may be defined wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios may include at least one keyword implementation of the one or more keywords.

One or more of the following features may be included. The at least one test scenario may be executed wherein the at least one test scenario may include one or more keyword steps and at least one channel of the one or more channels. The at least one channel of the one or more channels may be specified external to the at least one test scenario. Testing each step in the at least one test scenario may include selecting the at least one keyword implementation based upon at least in part a relationship between the at least one keyword implementation and the at least one channel. The one or more keyword implementations may include a unique implementation for multiple channels. The at least one test scenario may include a plurality of channels. The at least one test scenario may include a weighting function based upon at least in part the number of steps that are to be run on each of the one or more channels.

In another implementation a computer program product resides on a computer readable storage medium that has a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions cause the processor to perform operations that may include but are not limited to defining one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. One or more keyword keywords each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels may be defined. One or more test scenarios may be defined wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios may include at least one keyword implementation of the one or more keywords.

One or more of the following features may be included. The at least one test scenario may be executed wherein the at least one test scenario may include one or more keyword steps and at least one channel of the one or more channels. The at least one channel of the one or more channels may be specified external to the at least one test scenario. Testing each step in the at least one test scenario may include selecting the at least one keyword implementation based upon at least in part a relationship between the at least one keyword implementation and the at least one channel. The one or more keyword implementations may include a unique implementation for multiple channels. The at least one test scenario may include a plurality of channels. The at least one test scenario may include a weighting function based upon at least in part the number of steps that are to be run on each of the one or more channels.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown definition process that may reside on and may be executed by a computer e.g. computer which may be connected to a network e.g. network e.g. the internet or a local area network . Examples of computer and or one or more of the client electronic devices noted below may include but are not limited to a personal computer s a laptop computer s mobile computing device s a server computer a series of server computers a mainframe computer s or a computing cloud s . Computer may execute an operating system for example but not limited to Microsoft Windows Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Mac and OS X are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

As will be discussed below in greater detail definition process may define one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. One or more keyword keywords each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels may be defined. One or more test scenarios may be defined wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios may include at least one keyword implementation of the one or more keywords.

The instruction sets and subroutines of definition process which may be stored on storage device coupled to computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown included within computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Computer may include a data store such as a database e.g. relational database object oriented database triplestore database etc. and may be located within any suitable memory location such as storage device coupled to computer . Any data described throughout the present disclosure may be stored in the data store. In some implementations computer may utilize a database management system such as but not limited to My Structured Query Language MySQL in order to provide multi user access to one or more databases such as the above noted relational database. The data store may also be a custom database such as for example a flat file database or an XML database. Any other form s of a data storage structure and or organization may also be used. Definition process may be a component of the data store a stand alone application that interfaces with the above noted data store and or an applet application that is accessed via client applications . The above noted data store may be in whole or in part distributed in a cloud computing topology. In this way computer and storage device may refer to multiple devices which may also be distributed throughout the network.

Computer may execute a testing application e.g. testing application examples of which may include but are not limited to e.g. a collaborative lifecycle management environment application for test scenario planning construction and execution such as the kind offered by IBM Rational Quality Manager or other application that allows for planning constructing and executing of a set of conditions or variables under which a tester will determine whether an application software system or one of its features is working as it was originally established for it to do. Definition process and or testing application may be accessed via client applications . Definition process may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script extension that may interact with and or be executed within testing application a component of testing application and or one or more of client applications . Testing application may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script extension that may interact with and or be executed within definition process a component of definition process and or one or more of client applications . One or more of client applications may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script extension that may interact with and or be executed within and or be a component of definition process and or testing application . Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to e.g. a collaborative lifecycle management environment application for test scenario planning construction and execution such as the kind offered by IBM Rational Quality Manager or other application that allows for planning constructing and executing of a set of conditions or variables under which a tester will determine whether an application software system or one of its features is working as it was originally established for it to do a standard and or mobile web browser an email client application a textual and or a graphical user interface a customized web browser a plugin an Application Programming Interface API or a custom application. The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices coupled to client electronic devices may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into client electronic devices .

Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives flash drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM and read only memories ROM . Examples of client electronic devices and or computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer e.g. client electronic device a laptop computer e.g. client electronic device a smart data enabled cellular phone e.g. client electronic device a notebook computer e.g. client electronic device a tablet not shown a server not shown a television not shown a smart television not shown a media e.g. video photo etc. capturing device not shown and a dedicated network device not shown . Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Android Apple iOS Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system.

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of definition process and vice versa . Accordingly definition process may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and or definition process .

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of testing application and vice versa . Accordingly testing application may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and or testing application . As one or more of client applications definition process and testing application taken singly or in any combination may effectuate some or all of the same functionality any description of effectuating such functionality via one or more of client applications definition process testing application or combination thereof and any described interaction s between one or more of client applications definition process testing application or combination thereof to effectuate such functionality should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

Users may access computer and definition process e.g. using one or more of client electronic devices directly through network or through secondary network . Further computer may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line . Definition process may include one or more user interfaces such as browsers and textual or graphical user interfaces through which users may access definition process .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between client electronic device and WAP . Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

Some or all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers smart phones and other electronic devices to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection. Other forms of interconnection e.g. Near Field Communication NFC may also be used.

Referring also to there is shown a diagrammatic view of client electronic device . While client electronic device is shown in this figure this is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to be a limitation of this disclosure as other configurations are possible. For example any computing device capable of executing in whole or in part definition process may be substituted for client electronic device within examples of which may include but are not limited to computer and or client electronic devices .

Client electronic device may include a processor and or microprocessor e.g. microprocessor configured to e.g. process data and execute the above noted code instruction sets and subroutines. Microprocessor may be coupled via a storage adaptor not shown to the above noted storage device s e.g. storage device . An I O controller e.g. I O controller may be configured to couple microprocessor with various devices such as keyboard pointing selecting device e.g. mouse custom device e.g. device USB ports not shown and printer ports not shown . A display adaptor e.g. display adaptor may be configured to couple display e.g. CRT or LCD monitor s with microprocessor while network controller adaptor e.g. an Ethernet adaptor may be configured to couple microprocessor to the above noted network e.g. the Internet or a local area network .

As discussed above and referring also to definition process may define at a computing device one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. Definition process may define one or more keywords each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels. Definition process may define one or more test scenarios wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios may include at least one keyword of the one or more keywords.

For instance with the explosive growth in popularity of computing devices e.g. such as the above noted client electronic devices and other ways of accessing Information Technology IT systems those that build and test their associated IT systems may find it necessary to validate the growing numbers of ways users may access these system. These different ways of accessing the same IT system and content may be generally described as different channels for the delivery of the same information and services. For example a user may log into a merchant website using a web browser on a traditional PC first channel while at work check the status of an ordered item via a tablet app for the merchant second channel and decide to update the order from a different web browser of a smart phone at home third channel . In some implementations definition process may facilitate testing different manners or channels of accessing an IT system or resources. For example in some implementations definition process may allow such different channels for accessing an IT system or resource to be tested without building a unique test script for testing access of the IT system or resource via each distinct channel. In some situations it may therefore be possible to test a wide range of access patterns which may utilize different client electronic device platform and or different web browsers or apps in a comparatively less time consuming and more cost efficient manner.

In some implementations to improve the coverage of testing such environments definition process may define at a computing device e.g. client electronic device one or more channels for executing one or more test scenarios. In some implementations the at least one channel of the one or more channels may be specified external to the at least one test scenario. For example in order to run a test scenario a channel must be specified via definition process either when a test is executed or in advance such as in a test execution record which may contain other relevant data about the execution of a test scenario such as in what test environment e.g. specific device configurations the test scenario will be was executed when the test scenario will be was executed by whom the test scenario will be was executed and what the results were if execution of the test scenario has been completed . For example and referring at least to an environment shows a relationship between artifacts defined in e.g. a test management tool e.g. via testing application definition process client application or combination thereof that may define e.g. multi channel tests. As such definition process may among other things store information about how the testing is to be done plan the testing activities and report the status of quality assurance activities. It will be appreciated that in some implementations definition process may not require either a test management tool and or a test execution record. As such the use of either a test management tool and or a test execution record should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the present disclosure. In some implementations definition process may include a user interface not shown that enables a user e.g. user to formally define e.g. via definition process one or more channels for executing a test scenario. In general a channel may include a particular combination of a client electronic device platform such as a particular hardware device in combination with a particular operating system and or operating system version and a software application such as a general purpose web browser or a special purpose application or the like that may be used to access a particular IT system and or resource. In the example three channel definitions are shown e.g. for a Brand X tablet app first channel a Brand Y smart phone with a first browser second channel and a PC with a second different browser third channel . It will be appreciated that any number of channels may be defined by definition process without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In some implementations definition process may define one or more keywords each with one or more associated keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels. For instance and still referring at least to assume for example purposes only that definition process has defined each of first channel second channel and third channel . In the example the high level test scenario s to be tested may be defined e.g. via definition process by a sequence of keywords. For example the keywords may abstract common functions or test steps e.g. that may be performed relative to the IT system and or resource that tend to be re used in multiple test scenarios. For instance non limiting examples of typical keywords e.g. for an example shopping application may include e.g. login find item add item to cart place order order status and cancel order . In some implementations definition process may include a user interface not shown that enables user to define e.g. via definition process one or more keyword implementations for at least one channel of the one or more channels. For instance the example keyword implementations in the example of include login login login check status and check status . It will be appreciated that any number of keywords and by association their associated keyword implementations may be defined without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. As shown for example in some situations a different keyword implementation for the login keyword may be defined for each of the different channels e.g. keyword implementation login for channel keyword implementation login for channel and keyword implementation login for channel . In some situations a common keyword implementation may be defined for more than one channel. For example as shown in keyword implementation check status may be defined for channel which keyword implementation check status may be defined for both channel and channel . It will be appreciated that any number of scenarios may be defined with any number of keywords without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In some implementations definition process may define the one or more test scenarios wherein at least one test scenario of the one or more test scenarios may include at least one reference to at least one keyword of the one or more keywords. The keyword implementation s will be selected when the test scenario is executed at which time the appropriate keyword implementation will be selected based on e.g. at least in part the channel specified at runtime or in the test execution record. For instance and still referring at least to assume for example purposes only that definition process has defined each of first channel second channel and third channel defined keywords login add item checkout and check status and keyword implementations login login login check status and check status . In some implementations definition process may include a user interface not shown that enables user to define e.g. via definition process the one or more test scenarios. For instance the example test scenario defined in the example of includes keywords login add item checkout and check status .

In some implementations the one or more keyword implementations may include a unique implementation for multiple channels. For example definition process may support a unique implementation of the keyword for each channel and or the ability to specify that an implementation supports multiple channels. For instance and as generally mentioned above in the example of login keyword may have unique implementations for each of the three defined channels e.g. and and the 1 to 1 relationship is shown between each keyword implementation and the channel definition e.g. to channel to channel and to channel . As another example referring still to check status keyword may have two unique implementations e.g. one for browser based channels e.g. check status for channels and and a unique implementation for Brand X tablet apps e.g. check status for channel . That is in the example the browser implementation is related to both the Brand Y smart phone with a first browser channel and the PC with a second different browser e.g. channel where the Brand X specific implementation is related to the Brand X tablet app channel .

In some implementations definition process may execute the test scenario wherein the at least one test scenario may include one or more keyword steps and at least one channel of the one or more channels. Which channel is being tested may be defined externally from the test. For example and referring still to with the defined channels scenario keywords and keyword implementations definition process may execute a test using scenario against one or more of the defined channels. For instance this is represented in the example by the definition of a test execution record that may have a relationship to the test scenario and Brand X tablet app channel . In some implementations executing the test scenario may include definition process testing each step in the at least one test scenario. For example and still referring to the example definition process may test each step in scenario or one or more steps in scenario . In some implementations testing each step in the at least one test scenario will include definition process selecting the at least one keyword implementation based upon at least in part a relationship between the at least one keyword implementation and the at least one channel. For example definition process may test each step in scenario by selecting the appropriate keyword implementation based on the relationships between the keyword implementations and the specified channel definitions. For instance as shown in to test each step in scenario definition process may select keyword implementations login and check status based upon the relationship between keyword implementation login and or keyword implementation check status and channel . Thus each of the steps tested in the example for scenario based upon the relationship between keyword implementation login and or keyword implementation check status channel may include login to login to channel and check status to check status to channel .

In some implementations the at least one test scenario may include a plurality of channels. For instance shows a test scenario of this type is specifying the channel for execution of each step at the keyword itself. The ability to switch channels mid stream during the test scenario may be supported e.g. via the above noted UI indicating a different channel for each step in the scenario. For example and referring at least to environment of definition process may define test scenario to reference multiple channels such as channel and channel where during execution the test scenario may touch multiple different channels. As such in addition to each of the steps tested as described above for definition process may select keyword implementations login and check status based upon the relationship between keyword implementation login and channel and keyword implementation check status and channel . Thus each of the additional steps tested in the example for scenario based upon the relationship between keyword implementation login and or keyword implementation check status channel and test scenario may include login to login to channel and check status to check status to channel .

Since keywords may be reused in multiple test scenarios and which channel is used may be defined independently from the test scenarios greater coverage may be achieved as many permutations of channel usage may be designed and performed with reduced effort e.g. through the use of defined keyword implementations for different channels . In the examples where a test scenario including keywords is completely executed on a single channel the test execution record may be the container that specifies that channel. However in some implementations when a test scenario is executed across channels the scenario itself may contain the information of which keywords are executed on a given channel. In some implementations this type of example scenario is not reused across multiple channels although it may also exist in that format.

In some implementations and referring at least to the environment of definition process may enable the testing of processes that span more than one channel. For example assume that definition process has defined the test scenario to reference multiple channels such as channel and channel . In the example definition process may enable the testing of environments where e.g. a user may log into a merchant website using the Brand Y smart phone browser e.g. channel and check the status of an ordered item via the Brand X tablet app for the merchant website e.g. channel .

In some implementations the at least one test scenario may include a weighting function based upon at least in part the number of steps that are to be run on each of the one or more channels. For instance definition process may include a user interface not shown that enables user to implement a weighting function e.g. via definition process to weight the number of steps that are to be run on any of the channels. For example user may desire to obtain more coverage of channel as it may be associated with a more popular device than those associated with channels and . Thus in the example definition process may enable user to implement a weighting function where e.g. 50 of the steps included within scenario are to be run for channel 25 of the steps included within scenario are to be run for channel and 25 of the steps included within scenario are to be run for channel . In an example of such a situation definition process may implement the weighting function such that login step and check status step may be run for channel while only login step may be run for channels and .

Thus in some implementations definition process may use keywords to abstract test design and coverage to a series of e.g. business logic keywords. For every channel of interest for testing these keywords may be implemented. These implementations may be manual and or automated with any testing tool e.g. of definition process . In some implementations definition process is not limited to GUIs and a channel need not specify a UI type e.g. it may include an API HTTP etc. . When an application changes it is possible that only one implementation needs to be updated due to the application change e.g. if the update is only on one channel e.g. to a Web UI of channel but not the Brand X tablet app of channel . Thus definition process may enable the isolation of differences in channel specific implementations and allows combination of the keywords in a channel independent scenario.

In some implementations the overall flow of the application may be changed impacting all channels. For instance definition process may update the above noted test scenario once e.g. to add remove reorder a keyword to address the application change. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art this approach may be vastly superior to having to update separate test scenarios for each channel.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications variations and any combinations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The implementation s were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various implementation s with various modifications and or any combinations of implementation s as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to implementation s thereof it will be apparent that modifications variations and any combinations of implementation s including any modifications variations and combinations thereof are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

