---

title: Methods for quantitative analysis of metabolic mixtures by 2D C-constant-time TOCSY NMR spectroscopy
abstract: This disclosure provides for new methods for quantification of metabolite concentrations in metabolomics studies, which addresses the difficulties in quantification through 1D peak integrals due to significant peak overlaps in metabolomics samples. For samples from uniformly C-labeled organisms the 2D NMR C-C constant-time (CT) TOCSY experiment provides high-resolution information about individual metabolites that allows their identification via database searching or, in the case of novel compounds, through the reconstruction of their backbone-carbon topology. This disclosure further demonstrates using CT-TOCSY spectra for quantification purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594880&OS=09594880&RS=09594880
owner: Florida State University Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09594880
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140515
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 823 560 filed May 15 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Award No. R01 GM 066041 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure relates to Nuclear Magnetic Spectroscopy NMR techniques for quantitative analysis of complex mixtures of compounds.

Due to its versatility and quantitative nature nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy is one of the most commonly used tools in analytical chemistry.1D H NMR experiments are widely applied for the extraction of quantitative concentrations of individual chemical species in solution provided that the spectra are well resolved. A major advantage of 1D H spectra is that the integral of a given peak is directly proportional to the concentration of the compound it belongs to.1D CH NMR spectroscopy at natural C abundance can also be used for quantification by targeted profiling using database information.

In the presence of strong peak overlaps which are typical for complex mixtures such as ones encountered in metabolomics 1D H NMR experiments become less useful and spectra are difficult to analyze. Significant peak overlaps in 1D NMR spectra of metabolomics samples prevents straightforward quantification through 1D peak integrals. While the resolution issue can often be addressed by 2D NMR spectroscopy the quantification of 2D spectra is hindered by the variability of cross peak intensities due to uneven magnetization transfer during the preparation evolution or mixing periods because of differences in scalar J couplings and spin relaxation.This feature prevents the direct use of cross peak integrals as quantitative measures of sample concentrations.

Therefore what is needed are better methods including improved NMR methods that allow the analysis of complex mixtures that are found in metabolomics. In particular better NMR techniques for the quantitative analysis of mixtures of compounds are needed such as approaches that might aim to translate cross peak integrals into concentrations.

Throughout this disclosure literature references are presented that are helpful in understanding and illustrating certain aspects of the disclosure. These literature references are cited at various passages of the specification in the manner commonly used for scientific and engineering publications or other disclosures.

In an aspect this disclosure provides for new methods for quantification of metabolite concentrations in metabolomics studies which is a key task in metabolomics studies. Significant peak overlaps in 1D NMR spectra of metabolomics samples prevents straightforward quantification through 1D peak integrals. For samples from uniformly C labeled organisms the 2D NMR C C constant time CT TOCSY Total Correlation Spectroscopy experiments provide high resolution information about individual metabolites that allows their identification via database searching or in the case of novel compounds through the reconstruction of their backbone carbon topology. It is demonstrated in this disclosure how CT TOCSY spectra can also be utilized for quantification purposes. This is accomplished through the quantum mechanical treatment of the TOCSY magnetization transfer or by the use of analytical approximations which are based on the knowledge of the carbon backbone topologies. The methods are demonstrated for carbohydrate and amino acid mixtures but are applicable across a wide range of systems.

2D NMR quantification methods can be divided into two main groups based on their strategies to deal with the variability of cross peak intensities mentioned above. The first category uses an internal standard for each type of molecule. This approach has been demonstrated for the heteronuclear 2D C H HSQC Heteronuclear Single Quantum Coherence and the homonuclear 2D H H TOCSYand 2D H INADEQUATE experiments.It is rather labor intensive as it requires the preparation and measurement of a large number of standards. Furthermore molecules identified in a sample cannot be quantified if their standard is unknown which includes newly discovered molecules. The second approach aims at minimizing the variability in cross peak intensities by modification of C H HSQC experiments in some cases by extrapolation of a series of experiments.It has the advantage that it does not require an internal standard for each molecule.

The 2D NMR quantification techniques mentioned so far are for metabolite samples at natural C abundance. Uniform C enrichment of organisms which is possible for an increasing number of organisms such as bacteria yeast and plants leads to fully C labeled metabolites. It has recently been demonstrated that homonuclear C NMR of complex mixtures of such metabolites offers unique information about their identity and composition. Based on 2D C C constant time CT TOCSY NMR spectra the determination of the carbon backbone topologies of 112 metabolites in a single sample of uniformly C labeled could be achieved.In order to optimally utilize the chemical and biological information of such samples the quantification of individual mixture components is helpful. Here we present general strategies for the quantification of uniformly C labeled metabolites which do not require an internal standard for each metabolite. The proposed strategies are either based on the exact quantum mechanical simulation of 2D CT TOCSY NMR spectra or on analytical approximations of the exact simulations.

Therefore according to one aspect this disclosure provides for comparing computed or estimated CT TOCSY peak volumes for each individual compound of interest with the corresponding experimental volumes to identify and determine the relative concentrations of the different compounds. For example this disclosure provides a spectroscopic method for identifying individual compounds in a chemical mixture the method comprising 

In this method the mixing time can be sufficiently long to achieve magnetization transfer across the entire C spin system or alternatively can be sufficiently short to achieve magnetization transfer only between directly connected carbons. In either case the relative concentration data can then be obtained by comparing the volumes of the non overlapping experimental cross peaks with the calculated cross peak volumes according to this disclosure. According to another aspect the mixing time can be sufficiently short to achieve magnetization transfer only between directly connected carbons and relative concentration data can then obtained by comparing the experimental cross peak volumes with the estimating cross peak volumes from approximations of the TOCSY transfer amplitudes on the basis of the spin system of the individual compound according to this disclosure. These and other aspects and embodiments are described in detail herein.

The NMR pulse sequence of the 2D C C CT TOCSY experimentis shown in . Constant time evolution during tremoves the dominant homonuclear J C C couplings along the indirect dimension . The 2D time domain signal is given by

Eqs. 1 4 can be directly used for the quantitative prediction of cross peak and diagonal peak volumes. The TOCSY transfers which are dominated by the J C C couplings are relatively insensitive to their precise values. By comparing the computed CT TOCSY peak volumes with the corresponding experimental volumes the relative concentrations of the different compounds can be determined. This approach is demonstrated in 3 different variants which in the following will be referred to as Methods A B C see also Results and Discussion 

Method A uses a CT TOCSY spectrum with a relatively long mixing time e.g. 47 ms which ensures magnetization transfer across the whole C spin system. This spectrum displays a maximum number of cross peaks. Those peaks that are not affected by overlap can be used for quantification by comparing the experimental peak volumes with the ones computed based on Eq. 1 .

Method B uses a CT TOCSY spectrum with a relatively short mixing time e.g. 4.7 ms where cross peaks appear only between directly connected carbons. Therefore this spectrum has fewer cross peaks than the one of Method A. They can be used for quantification by comparing the experimental peak volumes with the ones computed based on Eq. 1 .

Method C uses like Method B a CT TOCSY spectrum with a relatively short mixing time e.g. 4.7 ms. However the compound quantification is not based on the full quantum mechanical expression of magnetization transfer. Instead it uses empirically derived approximations given below.

For all three approaches the topology of each compound of interest is required. This can be achieved by direct compound identification by querying a C TOCSY trace such as a C consensus TOCSY trace of the compound of interest taken from a long mixing CT TOCSY spectrum against the TOCCATA database.Alternatively the carbon topology can be reconstructed ab initio based on the analysis of CT TOCSY spectra measured at long and short TOCSY mixing times.Once the carbon topology is known the scalar J C C network Jof Eq. 2 is established by setting J C C 35 40 Hz except for J C C that involve carbonyl or carboxyl carbons which are set to 55 Hz. These couplings can also be double checked from cross sections of the CT TOCSY along . Since all multiple bond J couplings are much smaller they can be safely ignored i.e. set to zero for the TOCSY mixing times considered here. For Methods A and B J coupling constants Jare inserted in Eq. 2 to define the isotropic TOCSY Hamiltonian Hto compute the transfer amplitudes fof Eq. 4 at the same mixing time used in the experiment. This is accomplished by numerical evaluation of Eq. 4 . It is noted that the transfer function of Eq. 4 is normalized i.e. 0 1 where is the Kronecker symbol . The average ratio of the experimentally determined peak integrals by the simulated transfers yields the quantity A c. In addition the measurement of the peak volume of a component with a known concentration allows the determination of the prefactor A. This can be achieved for example by calibration of the spectrum by the addition of a pure compound with known concentration e.g. 4 4 dimethyl 4 silapentane 1 sulfonic acid DSS .

At short mixing times the full numerical integration of Eqs. 1 4 can be avoided by using approximate analytical solutions. The following expressions give the TOCSY transfer amplitudes where s sin J and c cos J 

 a Two spin system S S b Linear three spin system S S S is analogousto c Linear four spin system S S S S

To convert the TOCSY transfer amplitudes given by the above expressions into CT TOCSY peak volumes they can be multiplied with cos JT where m is the multiplicity of the donor carbon which is the carbon whose diagonal peak has the same frequency as the cross peak of interest .

This is accomplished by numerical implementation of Eq. 1 using carbon chemical shifts the carbon backbone topology and one bond J C C coupling constants of each molecule as input followed by 2D Fourier transformation. For amino acids all J C C coupling constants were set to 35 Hz except for coupling to the carboxyl carbons which are set to 55 Hz. For the carbohydrates J C C couplings constants are generally larger than 35 Hzand they were set to 40 Hz in the simulations.

2D C C CT TOCSYdata sets of the carbohydrate and amino acid mixtures were collected at 800 MHz proton frequency with 110 ppm C spectral width at 25 C. with N 576 and N 2048 complex data points with 16 scans per increment and a relaxation delay of 4 seconds. TOCSY mixing by FLOPSY 16 of 4.7 ms for short mixing and 47 ms for long mixing were used.2 D C C CT TOCSY data set of galactose was collected at 700 MHz proton frequency with 82 ppm C spectral width at 25 C. with 4.7 ms for short mixing and 37.6 ms for long mixing times using FLOPSY 16.Quantitative 1D C NMR reference spectra were recorded for all samples with a long relaxation delay of 60 seconds. All experimental NMR data sets were zero filled Fourier transformed phase and baseline corrected using NMRPipeand converted to a Matlab compatible format for subsequent processing and analysis.

A uniformly C labeled amino acid mixture consisting of isoleucine lysine alanine and valine with concentrations of 5 10 15 and 20 mM respectively was prepared in DO. All amino acids were purchased from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories Inc.

The carbohydrate mixture was prepared from uniformly C labeled glucose purchased from Sigma Aldrich and fructose galactose and ribose purchased from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories Inc. . A NMR sample was prepared by dissolving these carbohydrates in DO each with a 10 mM final concentration. Individual carbohydrate samples were prepared by dissolving each carbohydrate in DO with a 10 mM final concentration.

The quantification method of C C CT TOCSY spectra is based on the promise that TOCSY transfers can be quantitatively predicted by numerical integration of the Liouville von Neumann equation that describes the underlying many spin physics. This is illustrated in showing a region of the experimental C C CT TOCSY spectrum of uniformly C labeled galactose at a long mixing time in comparison with the computed spectrum . In aqueous solution galactose consists of 2 slowly interconverting isomers each of which with its distinct resonances. The simulated CT spectrum of was computed according to Eq. 1 by the co addition of the spectra simulated for each of the 2 isomeric states. The high degree of similarity between the simulated and experimental spectra of exemplifies the potential of CT TOCSY spectra for quantification of metabolite concentrations.

Our compound quantification method using a long mixing time TOCSY spectrum Method A was first tested for a carbohydrate mixture consisting of uniformly C labeled ribose glucose fructose and galactose. In aqueous solution each of these carbohydrates is present in multiple isomeric forms which are in slow exchange 2 isomers in the case of galactose and glucose and three isomers in the case of fructose and ribose. Long mixing time CT TOCSY simulations were performed for each sugar isomer. In the simulated spectra the peak integrals of each sugar isomer were measured and plotted against the peak integrals of the experimental mixture spectrum. The results for 4 of the sugar isomers are plotted in first row panels a b c d and the spectra of all sugar isomers are given in . As can be seen from the figure the experimental and computed peak integrals align well along the diagonal with a correlation coefficient R between 0.92 and 0.98. For the plots the experimental peak amplitudes were normalized such that the points lie along the main diagonal. The relative concentrations of the various isomers are indicated by the constant given in each panel which correspond to the actual slopes. Consistently good results are obtained for all peaks with the exception of peaks whose donor carbon frequency exceeds 100 ppm. This behavior is presumably caused by the larger radio frequency offset effects and they were excluded from analysis and are not shown in the figures . Overlapping diagonal peaks were also excluded.

A distinctive feature of long mixing CT TOCSY is the large number of cross peaks as the number of peaks grows with the square of the chain length. For example for a linear 6 carbon chain such as glucose the total number of cross peaks and diagonal peaks is 36. Even in the case of some overlaps the number of peaks available for quantification of the compound is therefore large. It not only helps reduce the statistical uncertainty but it also allows identification of outliers which includes peaks whose volumes are affected by spectral artifacts and thereby increases the confidence and precision of the concentration estimates.

The same procedure used for the analysis of the long mixing CT TOCSY spectra was applied to short mixing time CT TOCSY Method B . The results for 4 of the carbohydrate isomers are plotted in and the results for all sugar isomers are shown in . The correlation coefficients between computed and experimental peak volumes vary between 0.88 and 0.98. The short mixing CT TOCSY has significantly fewer cross peaks than the long mixing TOCSY as the number of peaks grows linearly with the chain length. For example for a linear 6 carbon chain such as glucose the total number of peaks is 16.

At long mixing times analytical solutions do not exist for all but the simplest spin systems. On the other hand for sufficiently short mixing time the exact transfer amplitudes can be empirically approximated as shown in the Methods section Method C . The accuracy of these approximations can be assessed in and where the approximate peak volumes at 4.7 ms mixing time are compared with the experimentally extracted volumes at the same mixing time. The correlation coefficients vary between 0.86 and 0.95 which is very similar to the performance of the exact treatment at short mixing times Method B .

The ability to accurately determine the populations of each isomer of a given carbohydrate is a useful indicator for the accuracy of the different methods. For this purpose the relative isomer populations determined by 5 different methods are compared in Table 1. Two of these methods are based on a 1D C NMR spectrum of either a sample of a pure compound or the 1D C NMR spectra of the mixture. The other 3 approaches use 2D CT TOCSY information according to Methods A B C. In the case of galactose Method A yields populations of its two isomers pyranose and pyranose of 35.3 and 64.7 respectively. These percentages are close to the ones observed in 1D C NMR spectra of individual galactose 33.3 vs. 66.7 as well as galactose peaks in 1D C NMR spectra of the carbohydrate mixture 33.2 vs. 66.8 . Methods B and C which rely on short mixing CT TOCSY yield results with larger deviations Method B 36.2 vs. 63.8 and Method C 28.1 vs. 71.9 . This is primarily due to the smaller number of peaks leading to larger statistical errors and distorted peak shapes caused by the presence of zero quantum effects. Overall the 5 methods produce consistent results for both galactose and glucose. For the other 2 carbohydrates which both have at least one isomer with notably low concentration 

This sample consists of an aqueous mixture of isoleucine lysine alanine and valine with concentrations of 5 10 15 and 20 mM respectively. Long mixing CT TOCSY simulations were performed for each amino acid Method A . From the simulated spectra peak integrals were extracted and plotted against the corresponding peak integrals of the experimental mixture spectrum . Peaks whose donor carbon is a C gave relatively large errors and they were excluded from analysis. The correlation coefficients lie between 0.83 valine and 0.98 isoleucine .

The results for the short mixing TOCSY Method B is shown in with correlation coefficients between 0.99 and 1.00. The relative concentration of isoleucine lysine and valine can be obtained with reasonably high accuracy. Only for alanine for which only 2 peaks were used severe peak distortions leads to a worse performance than for long mixing CT TOCSY. The same conclusions hold for the approximate treatment of the short mixing TOCSY Method C with the results shown in

The concentration ratios of the amino acids were extracted from and with the results listed in Table 2. They show that the relative concentrations of isoleucine lysine and valine can be obtained with high accuracy by all 3 methods. For alanine with only 2 cross peaks and hence poorer statistics the accuracy is clearly lower.

Identification and quantification of metabolites in complex mixtures is a key challenge of metabolomics. Quantification of components by NMR spectroscopy is traditionally based on peak integrals of 1D NMR spectra. This method can provide very accurate concentration estimates but it is limited to spectra with relatively little peak overlap. For complex metabolite mixtures such as the ones encountered in metabolomics peak overlaps in the 1D spectrum are typically prevalent to the extent that they significantly hamper or prevent the use of 1D spectra for quantification. Although the overlap issue can be addressed by taking advantage of the substantial resolution enhancement offered by 2D NMR spectra magnetization transfers during 2D experiments lead to non uniform scaling across the spectrum which impairs the direct proportionality relationship between peak volumes and compound concentration. The course of magnetization transfer in 2D C C CT TOCSY experiment is however complex especially at longer mixing times. This experiment is ideally suited for the study of uniformly C labeled organisms such as bacteria yeast and plants permitting the ab initio determination of the carbon backbone topologies of sizeable numbers of known and unknown metabolites.We demonstrate here that this experiment cannot only be used for metabolite identification but also for quantification purposes provided that the dependence of the cross peak amplitudes on the mixing time is explicitly taken into account. This can be achieved either through the explicit quantum mechanical treatment of the underlying spin physics at arbitrary TOCSY mixing times or in case of short mixing times by the use of the analytical expressions presented here. Our results for carbohydrates and amino acids show that at long mixing times the fully quantum mechanics based calculation of magnetization transfer during TOCSY well reproduces the experimental observations. At shorter mixing times the accuracy is slightly reduced because of the smaller number of amenable cross peaks and potentially distorted peak shapes. The achievable accuracy by the 2D CT TOCSY based approach is not as high as for the traditional 1D H NMR approach. However the use of CT TOCSY for compound quantification overcomes the need of well resolved resonances in the 1D NMR spectrum. Application of this quantification method to H H TOCSY spectra is possible but it requires accurate knowledge of all geminal and vicinal J H H couplings which can strongly depend on the metabolite conformation s . On the other hand since C CT TOCSY approach is C based during both evolution and detection it does neither require any H resonance assignments nor knowledge of J H H couplings. It can be applied to the very same C C TOCSY spectra used for compound identification and backbone carbon topology reconstruction. Moreover the protocol should be applicable to fractionally C labeled metabolites such as ones encountered in flux analysis provided that cross peaks of differentially labeled variants of the same molecule do not overlap to an extent that might hinder the accurate measurement of individual cross peak volumes. These properties make CT TOCSY spectra a powerful tool for metabolomics studies of C labeled organisms that aim at compound identification and quantification.

While the methods disclosed herein are demonstrated for carbohydrate and amino acid mixtures but are applicable across a wide range of systems. For example the methods and techniques disclosed here can be applied to biological mixtures generally including metabolic mixtures that include carbohydrates amino acids peptides polypeptides nucleobases nucleosides nucleotides or any mixtures or combinations thereof.

Each of the references or citations provided in this disclosure is incorporated herein by reference in pertinent part. To the extent that any definition or usage provided by any document incorporated by reference conflicts with the definition or usage provided herein the definition or usage provided herein controls. In any application before the United States Patent and Trademark Office the Abstract of this application is provided for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of 37 C.F.R. 1.72 and the purpose stated in 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. Therefore the Abstract of this application is not intended to be used to construe the scope of the claims or to limit the scope of the subject matter that is disclosed herein. Moreover any headings that are employed herein are also not intended to be used to construe the scope of the claims or to limit the scope of the subject matter that is disclosed herein. Any use of the past tense to describe an example otherwise indicated as constructive or prophetic is not intended to reflect that the constructive or prophetic example has actually been carried out.

