---

title: Air spring sleeve
abstract: The present invention is directed to an air spring sleeve comprising: an outer layer, at least one reinforcing layer, and an inner layer that form the sleeve; the outer layer and the inner layer are formed of an elastomeric composition, with the proviso that the elastomeric composition does not comprise epichlorohydrin; and the at least one reinforcing layer comprises a plurality of reinforcing elements disposed between a layer of the elastomeric composition, wherein the elastomeric composition of the at least one reinforcing layer is identical to the elastomeric composition of the outer layer and the inner layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09556921&OS=09556921&RS=09556921
owner: FIRESTONE INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS COMPANY, LLC
number: 09556921
owner_city: Indianapolisi
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140722
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 598 710 filed Nov. 14 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 800 974 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to an air spring sleeve and more particularly to an air spring sleeve comprising an outer layer at least one reinforcing layer and an inner layer forming the sleeve wherein the outer layer and the inner layer are formed from an elastomeric composition with the proviso that the elastomeric composition does not comprise epichlorohydrin and wherein the at least one reinforcing layer comprises a plurality of reinforcing elements disposed between a layer of the elastomeric composition wherein the elastomeric composition of the at least one reinforcing layer is identical to the elastomeric composition of the outer layer and the inner layer.

Air springs are typically used in vehicular and industrial applications. In those applications the air spring can serve for example to reduce road damage to stabilize a vehicle to reduce motion and or vibration to support a load and or to enable adjustments for driving conditions.

Air springs typically include two end members which are connected to respective ends of an air sleeve. The air sleeve can be composed of a fabric reinforced flexible bladder or sleeve. The air spring sleeve usually has opposed open ends which are connected to the end members by for example a clamp or swage ring to form a pressurized chamber within the sleeve. The flexible sleeve usually consists of inner and outer layers of a non reinforced elastomeric material with a plurality of reinforcing schemes creating reinforcing layers sandwiched between these inner and outer layers or combinations thereof.

The inner layer the reinforcing layer and the outer layer are typically made from a flexible material. The modulus of the flexible material of the air sleeve should be low enough to continuously flex as the air spring moves from extended to compressed positions without deteriorating to provide a durable air spring. To achieve that flexibility and durability the art teaches a number of different sleeve constructions as well as sleeve compositions.

For example the inner layer may be a particular elastomeric composition while the outer layer may be of a different elastomeric composition. The use of different elastomeric compositions for the inner and outer layers however creates a stress discontinuity between the different layers of the air sleeve including the reinforcing layers. In addition the use of a different rubber composition for each layer adds to the complexity of manufacturing the air sleeve.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 763 883 discloses an air spring bellows construction wherein the bellows is formed of elastomeric material and reinforced with embedded fiber cords. Successive layers of cord are wound in annular bands either in the rolling lobe or in the chamber portion in combination with helical windings to change angles of the cord material. That provides an air spring design that compromises the spring rate effect of a piston entering a chamber and increases the effective diameter of an air spring without substantially increasing its volume. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 5 566 929 describes the use of three rubberized cord fabric layers to generate a longer service life at higher inner pressures and small roll off radii in the rolling lobe.

Moreover U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2004 0248485 and 2005 0084638 are directed to particular plycoats that encompass reinforcement cords in an effort inter alia to obtain high resistance to deterioration of the bond with flexing of the air spring.

Instead of altering the composition of the sleeve layer or adding particular reinforcing plies the present inventors have discovered that a single rubber composition can be used throughout all the layers of the sleeve. In fact epichlorohydrin rubber air springs on the market can use the same compositional layers generating the air sleeve. Epichlorohydrin rubber however has inherent properties and limitations that would not suggest that other rubber compositions could be used in a similar manner. Thus it is desirable to use a single composition for all layers of an air spring sleeve i.e. the inner layer the reinforcing layer and the outer layer wherein the composition does not include epichlorohydrin rubber. By using a single rubber composition not only can manufacturing costs be reduced but also the degree of complexity in the manufacturing process is reduced.

The present invention is directed to an air spring sleeve comprising an outer layer at least one reinforcing layer and an inner layer forming the sleeve wherein the outer layer and the inner layer are formed of an elastomeric composition with the proviso that the elastomeric composition does not comprise epichlorohydrin and wherein the at least one reinforcing layer comprises a plurality of reinforcing elements disposed between a layer of the elastomeric composition wherein the elastomeric composition of the at least one reinforcing layer is identical to the elastomeric composition of the outer layer and the inner layer.

Additional advantages of the present invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the present invention. The advantages of the present invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate several embodiments of the present invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the present invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present exemplary embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

At least one embodiment of an air spring according to the present invention is shown in and is indicated generally at . The air spring can be any conventional air spring known to the art and to the literature such as a reversible sleeve or convoluted spring e.g. single double or triple convoluted.

As shown in air spring includes a top end member and a bottom end member which is depicted as a usual piston. The air spring sleeve which is indicated generally at is an elongated tubular member which extends between end members and and can be attached e.g. by a sealing clamp thereagainst by swage rings and respectively and forms an internal pressure chamber therein. End members and are attached to two spaced members and respectively which may be parts of a motor vehicle such as a vehicle chassis and vehicle axle or any device where e.g. cushioning is desired between two spaced members such as in an industrial application.

As shown in sleeve is formed of inner and outer layers and respectively which extend generally throughout the axial length of the air sleeve along with at least one reinforcing layer disposed within. Inner layer and outer layer are formed from an elastomeric composition. The at least one reinforcing layer comprises a plurality of reinforcing elements or cords calendered within a thin layer of the elastomeric composition.

As used herein elastomeric composition refers solely to the at least one vulcanized rubber used to make the inner layer the outer layer and or the at least one reinforcing layer. The vulcanized rubber can be chosen from but not limited to synthetic polyisoprene rubber natural rubber NR styrene butadiene rubber SBR polybutadiene polybutadiene rubber BR neoprene ethylene propylene rubber ethylene propylene diene rubber EPDM acrylonitrile butadiene rubber NBR silicone rubber the fluoroelastomers ethylene acrylic rubber ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer EVA chlorinated polyethylene rubbers chlorosulfonated polyethylene rubbers hydrogenated nitrile rubber tetrafluoroethylene propylene rubber and the like with the proviso that the elastomeric composition does not comprise epichlorohydrin. Those vulcanized rubbers allow for the production of a reversible sleeve and or convoluted spring. In certain embodiments the elastomeric composition comprises at least two vulcanized rubbers.

The outer layer the inner layer and or the at least one reinforcing layer can further comprise at least one optional ingredient generally known in the rubber compounding art such as but not limited to curing aids activators retarders plasticizers processing oils resins reinforcing resins tackifying agents fillers pigments fatty acids zinc oxide magnesium oxide waxes peptizing agents any other additive know in the art or mixtures thereof. Those ingredients may be present in conventional amounts as known in the art.

It is readily understood by those having skill in the art that the elastomeric composition would be compounded by methods generally known in the rubber compounding art such as mixing various sulfur vulcanizable constituent polymer s with various commonly used additive materials such as for example curing aids such as soluble sulfur and or insoluble sulfur activators retarders and accelerators processing additives such as oils and pine tar resins including tackifying resins plasticizers pigments fillers fatty acid zinc oxide waxes stabilizers such as sterically hindered amines anti scorching agents such as N cyclohexylthiophthalimide antioxidants and antiozonants peptizing agents. As known to those skilled in the art depending on the intended use of the vulcanized composition the additives mentioned above are selected and commonly used in conventional amounts.

Typical amounts of tackifer resins if used comprise from about 0.5 to about 10 phr usually from about 1 to about 5 phr. Typical amounts of processing aids comprise from about 1 to about 50 phr. Such processing aids can include for example aromatic naphthenic and or paraffinic processing oils. Typical amounts of antioxidants if used comprise from about 1 to about 5 phr. Representative antioxidants may be for example diphenyl p phenylenediamine and others such as for example those disclosed in the Vanderbilt Rubber Handbook 1978 pages 344 346. Typical amounts of antiozonants if used comprise from about 1 to about 5 phr.

As used herein the term phr refers to parts by weight of a respective material such as per 100 parts by weight of rubber or elastomer.

Typical amounts of fatty acids if used which can include for example stearic acid palmitic acid linoleic acid or mixtures of one or more fatty acids comprise from about 0.5 to about 3 phr. Typical amounts of zinc oxide if used comprise from about 2 to about 5 phr. Typical amounts of waxes if used comprise from about 1 to about 5 phr. In certain embodiments microcrystalline waxes can be used. Typical amounts of peptizers if used comprise from about 0.1 to about 1 phr. Typical peptizers can include for example pentachlorothiophenol and dibenzamidodiphenyl disulfide.

The vulcanization is generally conducted in the presence of a sulfur vulcanizing agent. Examples of suitable sulfur vulcanizing agents include but are limited to rubbermaker s soluble sulfur sulfur donating vulcanizing agents such as an amine disulfide polymeric polysulfide or sulfur olefin adducts and insoluble polymeric sulfur. For example the sulfur vulcanizing agent can be soluble sulfur or mixtures of soluble and insoluble polymeric sulfur. The sulfur vulcanizing agents can be used in an amount ranging from about 0.1 to about 10 phr such as from about 0.5 to about 5 phr and from about 1.5 to about 3.5 phr.

Accelerators can be used to control the time and or temperature required for vulcanization and to improve properties of the vulcanizate. The vulcanization accelerators that can be used in the present invention are not particularly limited. Examples include thiazol vulcanization accelerators such as 2 mercaptobenzothiazol dibenzothiazyl disulfide N cyclohexyl 2 benzothiazyl sulfenamide CBS N tert butyl 2 benzothiazyl sulfenamide TBBS and the like and guanidine vulcanization accelerators such as diphenyl guanidine and the like. The amount of the vulcanization accelerator used can range from about 0.1 to about 5 phr such as from about 0.2 to about 3 phr.

The vulcanizable composition of the present invention can be obtained by mixing the components by using a milling apparatus such as a mill an internal mixer and the like. The ingredients are typically mixed in two or more stages consisting of at least a master batch stage in which at least a portion of the polymeric sulfide compound silica carbon black and other ingredients are mixed at a high temperature which may be from about 165 C. to about 200 C. and a lower temperature final stage in which the curing agents are typically added. There may also be intermediate mixing stages in which the mixture is re milled with or without the addition of ingredients. The mixing temperature and mixing times may vary from stage to stage as is known to those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment at least one reinforcing layer and or at least two reinforcing layers and as illustrated in can be disposed between inner and outer layers and and extend throughout the axial length of the air spring. Those layers and are of a usual construction consisting of a plurality of reinforcing elements or cords calendered within a thin layer of the elastomeric material as described above. In usual air spring constructions the cords will be at a bias angle and opposed to each other in the two reinforcing plies.

In addition the at least one reinforcing layer should be able to provide two dimensional enforcement. For example with a single reinforcing layer the number and arrangement of reinforcing elements or chords can provide such enforcement.

In at least one embodiment of the present invention and illustrated in the pair of reinforcing layers and are disposed between an inner layer and a cover layer and extend throughout the axial length of the air spring. The outer layer and the cover layer may or may not be the same. For example the sleeve can include an inner layer at least two reinforcing layers and outer layer or cover respectively. Alternatively the sleeve can include an inner layer at least two reinforcing layers an outer layer and a cover respectively.

Before any processing i.e. before layers of the air spring are cured the overall thickness of the sleeve can range from about 0.08 inches to about 0.50 inches such as from about 0.10 inches to 0.25 inches and further for example from about 0.21 inches to about 0.25 inches. In some embodiments the inner layer of the air spring can range in thickness from about 0.02 inches to about 0.12 inches or any fraction in between. A reinforcing layer with two layers can range in thickness from about 0.02 inches to about 0.15 inches or any fraction in between. The outer layer can range in thickness from about 0.02 inches to about 0.12 inches or any fraction in between. The range in thickness of the layers of an air spring can vary based at least in part on e.g. the type of air spring the number of layers comprising the air spring and or the end function of the air spring. Once the layers of the air spring sleeve are cured the thickness of the sleeve can range from about 0.06 inches to about 0.49 inches or any fraction in between.

In one embodiment the present invention contemplates a four layered sleeve or a three layered sleeve. For example in the four layered sleeve the inner layer is disposed on one side by two reinforcing layers. This is done by passing them through a building machine which has a series of rollers or drums that stack the individual layers on top of each other for curing. With one of the reinforcing layers it can pass between the middle rollers while the inner layer is fed from above and the second reinforcing layer is fed from below. Meanwhile another roller has the inner layer wrapped around another drum. At this time the reinforcing layers can be disposed at bias angles. Once the layers are stacked on top of each other they are desleeved placed into a press and cured. After that curing components can be added such as the bead wire piston and bead plate to form a finished air spring.

In a three layered sleeve one of the reinforcing layers is separately manufactured to the outer layer or cover to form an off balance skim. This way the sleeve can be manufactured as described above but with the inner layer the other reinforcing layer and the off balanced skim reinforcing layer as provided in .

Accordingly by providing an air spring sleeve with the same rubber composition in each of the respective layers i.e. the inner reinforcing and outer layers the complexity of the manufacturing process as well as the compounding process are reduced. That can result in time and monetary savings. It also enables the tooling used to assemble the air springs to be utilized in a more efficient manner because regardless of the layer the same rubber material can be used.

In the foregoing description certain terms have been used for brevity clearness and understanding. No unnecessary limitations are to be implied therefrom beyond the requirement of the prior art because such terms are used for descriptive purposes and are intended to be broadly construed. Moreover the description and illustration of the invention is an example and the invention is not limited to the exact details shown or described.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

