---

title: Lawful intercept utility application
abstract: Novel tools and techniques are provided for lawfully intercepting communications. In some embodiments, a lawful intercept application might be provided on a cloud computing system. The lawful intercept application might include an application programming interface (“API”) to exchange data with a plurality of different communication building blocks of different types. Communication intercept data associated with a particular communication between a lawful intercept subject and other parties may be received with the lawful intercept application. The communication intercept data may then be provided from a delivery function of the lawful intercept application to a collection function. In some cases, the collection function might be part of the lawful intercept application, might be located at a government facility separate from the cloud computing system, or might be two collection functions, one of which is part of the lawful intercept application and the other of which is located at the government facility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225747&OS=09225747&RS=09225747
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09225747
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140306
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 816 909 the 909 application filed Apr. 29 2013 by Michael J. Fargano et al. entitled Lawful Intercept Utility Application and U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 857 750 the 750 application filed Jul. 24 2013 by Michael J. Fargano et al. entitled Lawful Intercept Utility Application the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to methods systems apparatus and computer software for facilitating lawful intercept of a subject s communications by law enforcement entities and more particularly to methods systems apparatus and computer software for providing lawful intercept utility application in a cloud based environment.

The telecommunications industry and Law Enforcement Agencies LEAs including e.g. the FBI have struggled over the years regarding Lawful Intercept LI . The general struggle is based on the rapid change of Information and Communications Technologies ICT and the slowness of LI laws and regulations e.g. the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994 CALEA to keep up. This manifests in several ways. For example today in the U.S.A. an LEA has an option for a full broadband LI where the entire broadband content streams sessions of an LI subject can be provided to an LEA yet the LEA may want only selected sessions. As an example the LEA may be interested in the LI subject s e mail but not the video streaming of movies and vice versa. Yet the entire broadband LI is provided.

LEAs don t like this arrangement and have tried several approaches to ease the issue. For example in the past the FBI had requested a buffering option in standards where the Service Provider would buffer the broadband LI for later access by the LEA. Another option is where summary information can be provided as part of the broadband safe harbor standard although this is very useful it does not work when all detailed communications are required for the LI. In addition as we move in the cloud world where a multitude of applications in the cloud Apps are available and personal communications can be embedded e.g. VoIP or text embedded in a cloud based multi player game and or the like the problem is that it would be more efficient for the LEA to have access to LI in the cloud on an App by App basis not access to the entire broadband stream to a LI subject. Another issue is black SUV rolls like truck rolls for a service provider which are costly . In this case a Service Provider cannot provide the LI interface to the LEA for electronic handover of the LI information thus the LEA might bring in equipment to the Service Provider s facility to perform the LI this has inherent LEA expenses and inefficiencies to the process. In addition there are numerous Apps that can provide for personal communications such as user to user voice text or video many of which are developed by small startups where LI capabilities are not even a consideration. Thus more and more black SUV rolls will be needed to perform LI.

Hence there is a need for more robust and scalable solutions for providing or facilitating lawful intercept for cloud computing based applications.

Various embodiments provide tools and techniques for implementing lawful intercept of a subject s data or communications and for providing lawful intercept utility application and in particular embodiments providing lawful intercept utility application in a cloud based environment.

In some instances a Law Enforcement Agency LEA provided Lawful Intercept LI application in the cloud or App might be provided in a cloud environment with a well described application programming interface API to interface with a variety of Apps where App developers and providers can easily interface with LEA for LI purposes.

The lawful intercept application in some embodiments might include an application programming interface API to exchange data with a plurality of different communication building blocks of different types. Communication intercept data associated with a particular communication between a lawful intercept subject and other parties may be received with the lawful intercept application. The communication intercept data may then be provided from a delivery function of the lawful intercept application to a collection function. In some cases the collection function might be part of the lawful intercept application might be located at a government facility separate from the cloud computing system or might be two separate collection functions one of which is part of the lawful intercept application and the other of which is located at the government facility.

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

In an aspect a method might comprise providing on a cloud computing system a lawful intercept application comprising an application programming interface API to exchange data with a plurality of different communication building blocks of different types. The method might further comprise receiving through the API communication intercept data with the lawful intercept application and providing the communication intercept data from a delivery function of the lawful intercept application to a collection function.

In some embodiments the lawful intercept application on the cloud computing system might comprise the collection function. In some cases the collection function is located at a government facility separate from the cloud computing system. In some instances the lawful intercept application might further comprise a collection front end function in communication with the collection function and providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise storing at least a portion of the communication intercept data at the collection front end function.

According to some aspects the collection function might comprise a first collection function and a second collection function. The first collection function might be a part of the lawful intercept application on the cloud computing system and the second collection function might be located at a government facility separate from the cloud computing system. The lawful intercept application might further comprise a collection front end function in communication with each of the first collection function and the second collection function.

In some embodiments providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise determining with the collection front end function whether the lawful intercept application is operating under safe harbor provisions. Based on a determination that the lawful intercept application is operating under safe harbor provisions providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise storing with the collection front end function at least a portion of the communication intercept data at the second collection function. Based on a determination that the lawful intercept application is not operating under safe harbor provisions providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise storing with the collection front end function at least a portion of the communication intercept data at the first collection function.

In some instances providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise determining with the collection front end function whether the communication intercept data falls under safe harbor provisions. Based on a determination that the communication intercept data falls under safe harbor provisions providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise storing with the collection front end function at least a portion of the communication intercept data at the second collection function. Based on a determination that communication intercept data does not fall under safe harbor provisions providing the communication intercept data to the collection function might comprise storing with the collection front end function at least a portion of the communication intercept data at the first collection function.

According to some embodiments the plurality of communication building blocks might comprise a communication building block to support voice communication a communication building block to support text communication a communication building block to support video communication a communication building block to support multimedia communication a communication building block to support chat communication a communication building block to support e mail communication a communication building block to support social web application communication a communication building block to support broadband access and or a communication building block to support Network Functions Virtualization NFV . In some instances the plurality of communication building blocks might comprise a communication building block to support one or more of identification information of parties to a communication with which the communication intercept data is associated location information of parties to the communication with which the communication intercept data is associated meta data information of the communication with which the communication intercept data is associated or date and time information of the communication with which the communication intercept data is associated.

In some cases the API might receive the communication intercept data from a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP switch. In some instances the API might receive the communication intercept data from a broadband probe or tap. In some embodiments the API might provide an interface to a hardware probe for intercepting the communication data at one or more of a public switched telephone network PSTN switch or a wireless switch.

In another aspect a cloud computing system might comprise at least one processor and a non transitory storage readable medium having stored thereon a set of instructions that when executed by the at least one processor causes the cloud computing system to perform one or more operations. The set of instructions might comprise instructions to provide on the cloud computing system a lawful intercept application comprising application programming interface API to exchange data with a plurality of different communication building blocks of different types. The set of instructions might further comprise instructions to receive through the API communication intercept data with the lawful intercept application and instructions to provide the communication intercept data from a delivery function of the lawful intercept application to a collection function.

In yet another aspect an apparatus might comprise a non transitory storage readable medium having stored thereon a set of instructions executable by a cloud computing system to perform one or more operations. The set of instructions might comprise instructions to provide on the cloud computing system a lawful intercept application comprising application programming interface API to exchange data with a plurality of different communication building blocks of different types. The set of instructions might further comprise instructions to receive through the API communication intercept data with the lawful intercept application and instructions to provide the communication intercept data from a delivery function of the lawful intercept application to a collection function.

Various modifications and additions can be made to the embodiments discussed without departing from the scope of the invention. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this invention also includes embodiments having different combination of features and embodiments that do not include all of the above described features.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Also terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

Various embodiments provide tools and techniques for providing lawful intercept utility application and in particular embodiments providing lawful intercept utility application in a cloud based environment.

In some instances a Law Enforcement Agency LEA provided Lawful Intercept LI application in the cloud or App might be provided in a cloud environment with a well described application programming interface API to interface with a variety of Apps where App developers and providers can easily interface with LEA for LI purposes.

The lawful intercept application in some embodiments might include an application programming interface API to exchange data with a plurality of different communication building blocks of different types. Communication intercept data associated with a particular communication between a lawful intercept subject and other parties may be received with the lawful intercept application. The communication intercept data may then be provided from a delivery function of the lawful intercept application to a collection function. In some cases the collection function might be part of the lawful intercept application might be located at a government facility separate from the cloud computing system or might be two separate collection functions one of which is part of the lawful intercept application and the other of which is located at the government facility. Based on a determination that either the lawful intercept application and or particular communication intercept data falls under safe harbor provisions the communication intercept data might be sent to and or stored at the collection function located at the government facility. Based on a determination that either the lawful intercept application and or particular communication intercept data does not fall under safe harbor provisions the communication intercept data might be stored at the collection function that is part of the lawful intercept application.

In some embodiments the LI App is provided in a cloud environment as a separate Utility App not bundled with any specific service or service building blocks with a well described API to interface with a variety of Apps where App developers and providers can easily interface to LEA for LI purposes. This eliminates the black SUV roll and allows an LEA to perform the LI on an App by App basis not rely on a broadband LI. The API can include options for LI segregation of voice text instant message IM video meta data and full user view from App. In addition the functions from the LEA LI Collector Function and post processing can be included in the LI App e.g. buffering minimization etc. 

In setting up LI capabilities which are rarely used less capital expense CAPEX and less operating expense OPEX may be required. There may also be a large amount of goodwill established with LEAs in that this solves many of their problems as described above. In some cases third party developers may also be involved.

Herein lawful intercept might refer to intercept of a subject s communications including without limitation e mail communications landline telephone communications cellular phone communications text message communications including short message service SMS communications multimedia messaging service MMS communications and or the like on line chat communications video communications Internet content browsing and usage multimedia streaming meta data associated with any of these communications and or the like by an LEA as provided by law. The term truck rolls might refer to a need by a service provider to dispatch a technician in a truck or other vehicle to install move and or configure an item of equipment wiring and or the like or to otherwise response to a service call or network outage. Dispatching the technician tends to be expensive. Analogously black SUV rolls might herein refer to a need by an LEA to dispatch an LEA agent in an SUV or other vehicle to install move and or configure an item of equipment wiring and or the like or to otherwise implement LI functionalities in order to lawfully intercept an LI subject s communications.

We now turn to the embodiments as illustrated by the drawings. illustrate some of the features of the method system and apparatus for providing lawful intercept utility application and in some cases providing lawful intercept utility application in a cloud based environment as referred to above. The methods systems and apparatuses illustrated by refer to examples of different embodiments that include various components and steps which can be considered alternatives or which can be used in conjunction with one another in the various embodiments. The description of the illustrated methods systems and apparatuses shown in is provided for purposes of illustration and should not be considered to limit the scope of the different embodiments.

In system might comprise a Software as a Service SaaS model a Platform as a Service PaaS model and an Infrastructure as a Service IaaS model . As shown in a Communications Building Block CBB can be offered as a SaaS model or a PaaS model . Alternatively CBB can be part of a Network Functions Virtualization NFV implementation. To provide Lawful Intercept LI access to the communications or data handled by the CBB Law Enforcement or Law Enforcement Agencies may provide an LI function with which the CBB can communicate using a defined API e.g. an LI API . The LI function may be implemented on the same cloud infrastructure as the CBB and the cloud infrastructure may be offered as an IaaS model .

A CBB can be considered a general purpose communication function that can provide one or more communication services using any of a variety of transports and or applications . Examples can include an online chat function a text messaging function a voice function e.g. packet voice a video function a multimedia function and or the like. In some cases a CBB can reside in a cloud computing environment which might be the same environment in which one or more of the LI functions reside and or it can run on dedicated hardware.

For example illustrates a LI system that features a LI application which as noted above might be implemented as a software application in a cloud computing environment as one or more hosted services etc. . The application can include an application programming interface API that provides an interface to exchange data with different CBBs e.g. CBB of various types. Such CBBs might be located in the same cloud environment as the LI application or might be located operated elsewhere so long as they have communication with the API .

The API can provide the ability for the application to receive communication intercept data from the CBB and other CBBs of various types and therefore can provide a standard interface to receive intercept data from many different types of communication systems. Through the API different forms of data from different communication systems can be received and processed by the application in a standard manner. For example the API might provide a set of exposed methods that developers of CBBs can use to provide intercept data which can include any of a variety of different types of data including but not limited to content of communications meta data of communications identification of parties to communications location information about communications or parties thereto date time information about communications and or the like.

CALEA establishes a safe harbor for communication systems that adhere to certain established standards and or employ approved techniques and various embodiments can be employed in both a safe harbor environment i.e. a communication system or environment that meets the requirements of the safe harbor and a non safe harbor environment i.e. a communication system or environment that does not meet such requirements . Thus for example the system of includes a delivery function in communication with the API . In a safe harbor environment the delivery function can deliver the intercept data in accordance with safe harbor requirements to a collector function which might be located for example at a government facility such as FBI headquarters or other facility designated by the safe harbor function. The collector function can be used to collect and process the intercept data as provided by law. In the system of the data might not be stored or otherwise managed within the application which as noted above might be hosted in a cloud environment etc. but instead might be delivered immediately outside the application and or the cloud environment to the collector function at an authorized location.

In other embodiments outside the safe harbor provisions some or all of the collector functionality might be included in the LI application itself. For example illustrates a similar system comprising an application that includes an API to interface with a plurality of CBBs e.g. CBB as noted above. The system also includes a delivery function that delivers intercept data received by the API but in this embodiment the delivery function delivers the intercept data to a collection function that is part of the application and or resides on the same system e.g. a hosted environment as the application .

Further embodiments might be configured to function in either a safe harbor mode or a non safe harbor mode or both simultaneously . For example illustrates a system that comprises a LI application similar to those described above. For example the application might comprise an API that receives intercept data from one or more CBBs e.g. as described above . In this set of embodiments the application comprises a delivery function that delivers the intercept data to a collector front end function which might be part of the application and or might reside on the same system as the application .

The collector front end might have capability to store intercept data or in some cases it might not. In other cases the collector front end might store some data and might not store other data. In an aspect the collector front end might be configurable to specify whether to store data and or which data to store according to whether the application or a particular intercept operates under safe harbor provisions or not.

Similarly the collector front end can provide intercept data to a collector that resides within the application or on the same system as the application and or the collector front end can deliver data to a safe harbor collector which as noted above might be located at an authorized facility such as FBI headquarters. The system of therefore can be customizable to allow flexible use cases in some cases the system might be configured so that the collector front end stores no data but instead delivers data directly from the delivery function to a safe harbor collector . In other cases the collector front end might store intercept data and or deliver the data to a non safe harbor collector . Such behavior can be configured for the application generally and or on a per intercept basis as appropriate by configuration of appropriate functionality in the collector front end without the need for modification of the API or delivery function .

In some cases the API can be configured to interface with communication technologies other than CBBs. For instance illustrates a system in which an LI application includes an API as well as other components which can be similar to those described above with respect to but which are not illustrated on for ease of description . The API can include an interface for CBBs as described above but can also include an interface for a probe adapter which can be configured to obtain intercept data from a variety of hardware devices including without limitation a tablet computer a smart phone a mobile phone a portable gaming device a music player a video player a laptop computer a desktop computer a set top box a television a vehicle s on board system computer s a server a database a non database data storage device and or the like . Merely by way of example in some cases a probe adapter might be designed to interface with a public switched telephone network PSTN switch such as a class 5 switch etc. similar to a traditional intercept probe except that the probe adapter can further interface with the API . For example the probe adapter might have hardware adapters necessary to interface with the switch but also an Ethernet adapter for communication over a data network and software for communicating over the network with the API which might be in an application hosted remotely in the cloud a data center etc. In other cases the probe adapter might be designed as a broadband probe or tap that can be used to intercept communications from a residential gateway or as an interface to a traditional voice over Internet Protocol VoIP switch. A variety of probe adapters can be designed to provide a hardware interface between many different devices and an LI application .

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

