---

title: Distributed generation of a coupon
abstract: A distributed generation of coupons system and method is described. One example develops a campaign having a set of rules at a campaign management system. in addition, a communication channel is established between the campaign management system and a coupon generating subsystem. The campaign having a set of rules is provided from the campaign management system to the coupon generating subsystem via the communication channel. The coupon generating subsystem is authorized to independently generate a coupon based on the set of rules of the campaign without requiring communication between the coupon generating subsystem and the campaign management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639865&OS=09639865&RS=09639865
owner: TAPCENTIVE, INC
number: 09639865
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140709
---
The present patent application claims priority to the U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 844 363 entitled System and Method for Distributed Generation of Randomized Coupons by Gavin Shenker et al. filed Jul. 9 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

Retailers and manufacturers frequently sponsor promotions that involve discounts prizes limited stock product distribution etc. These programs are central to marketing efforts by the retailers and manufacturers to incent consumers to make specific purchases visit particular retail locations etc. Many of these promotions rely on paper coupons to serve as the proof that a consumer is entitled to receive the afore mentioned promotion. With the advent of the Internet and mobile technology many paper based promotions are transitioning to digital systems where the coupons related to the promotions are generated digitally.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the subject matter examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the subject matter discussed herein will be described in conjunction with various embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the subject matter to these embodiments. On the contrary the presented embodiments are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the various embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the Description of Embodiments numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present subject matter. However embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the described embodiments.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present Description of Embodiments discussions utilizing terms such as selecting outputting inputting providing receiving utilizing obtaining coupling accessing changing correlating or the like often refer to the actions and processes of an electronic computing device system such as a desktop computer notebook computer tablet mobile phone and electronic personal display among others. The electronic computing device system manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the circuits electronic registers memories logic and or components and the like of the electronic computing device system into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the electronic computing device system or other electronic computing devices systems.

In general the disclosure describes a system for operating marketing campaigns involving a campaign management subsystem coupled with one or more additional coupon generating subsystems responsible for generation of coupons where the coupon generating subsystems can be physically distributed from the central management subsystem during the generation of the coupons.

The campaign management subsystem creates campaign rules such as but not limited to the setup of the types of coupons and number of coupons to be distributed and rules that may influence the coupon generation. For example the rules may include randomization rules or the like. The campaign management subsystem is also used to set up and manage one or more separate and distributed subsystems for secure near real time coupon generation communicate campaign and management data between the campaign management subsystem and the coupon generating subsystems validate and redeem generated coupons and monitor and manage the coupon generating subsystems.

The coupon generating subsystem communicates with the campaign management subsystem generates coupons according to the campaign rules retrieves generated coupons from the coupon generating subsystems and the like.

An embodiment described herein can generate coupons in near real time. Another embodiment includes an element of randomness in the coupon generation process. The near real time performance provides instant consumer gratification involving technology. The element of randomness addresses the offer fatigue problem by introducing chance into the coupon generation process such that a consumer may receive a highly valuable offer as they might in entering a contest or sweepstakes. An embodiment also includes reasonable security mechanisms to mitigate fraud concerns that are common in digital couponing systems.

It should be noted that the term coupon is used throughout this disclosure to refer to a digital token that can be associated with any type of marketing or incentive campaign where the campaign owner is offering something to consumers to incent shopping behavior such as purchasing specific products visiting specific stores shopping within limited periods of time etc. Such tokens may also be associated with loyalty programs where a consumer is accumulating benefits for recurring patronage of a retailer or manufacturer. Therefore the term coupon should not be taken in a limiting sense.

With reference now to a block diagram of an embodiment of a coupon generating engine is shown. One embodiment of coupon generating engine includes power a central processing unit CPU a random number generator RNG a connection for an external clock to provide the card with a clock signal from which data communications timing is derived a cryptographic coprocessor CPT an I O port random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and read only memory ROM . The software for coupon campaign operations can be stored and run from ROM or EEPROM and would rely on the support of the RNG and CPT for many of the operations.

In general coupon generating engine is a dedicated computer on a chip or microprocessor for carrying out cryptographic operations embedded in a packaging with multiple physical security measures which give it a degree of tamper resistance. Although a number of secure microprocessors may be used herewith. In one embodiment SmartMX designed by NXP is a microprocessor having data encryption capabilities.

I O port is a communications interface for coupon generating engine such as a contact interface according to ISO IEC 7816 contactless interface according to ISO IEC 14443A serial input and output half duplex USB HDMI or other interfaces.

In one embodiment RNG uses a cryptographic hash function to approach a uniform distribution of bits from a non uniformly random source. In another embodiment RNG is a pseudo RNG PRNG such as the linear congruential generator. dev random is one example of a file that serves as a pseudorandom number generator.

In general CPT is implemented on a high security tamper resistant programmable PCI board. Specialized cryptographic electronics microprocessor memory and random number generator housed within a tamper responding coupon generating engine provide a highly secure subsystem in which data processing and cryptography can be performed. In one embodiment CPT is a high speed 3 DES coprocessor 64 bit parallel a high speed AES coprocessor 128 bit parallel a PKI RSA ECC coprocessor FameXE 32 bit parallel such as found on a SmartMX by NXP. However it should be appreciated that although the SmartMX is disclosed herein the technology is well suited to using other comparable technologies.

In general CPU is hardware within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical logical and input output operations of the system. Two components of CPU are the arithmetic logic unit for performing arithmetic and logical operations and the control unit for extracting instructions from memory and decoding and executing them calling on the arithmetic logic unit when necessary. CPU may be multiprocessor multi core processors and the like.

In one embodiment the communication protocol for coupon generating engine may be ISO 7816 contact ISO 14443 contactless or both. Although a number of components are shown it should be appreciated that microprocessor platform may include more or fewer components. Moreover in an embodiment the components described in microprocessor platform may be substituted for other components that provide similar operational capabilities. That is there are many other options for implementations of the microprocessor platform that could involve other types of processors micro or otherwise modules computing platforms or the like.

With reference now to a distributed coupon generating system is shown in accordance with an embodiment. In one embodiment distributed coupon generating system includes a centrally managed campaign management subsystem that may be an Internet accessible service one or more coupon generating subsystem s e.g. and at least one mobile device with specialized application software designed to interact with coupon generating subsystem and the campaign management subsystem . In one embodiment mobile device is a device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a tablet computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a personal digital assistant and the like.

In one embodiment coupon generating subsystem includes a secure coupon generating engine where coupon generation takes place. In addition to the coupon generating engine a coupon generating subsystem could include one or more communication interfaces to support communication between the coupon generating subsystem and campaign management subsystem and between the coupon generating subsystem and mobile device .

In one embodiment campaign management subsystem is an Internet accessible system that includes a human readable management interface such as a web browser used to set up and control coupon campaigns and set up and control the coupon generating subsystem . Campaign management subsystem also includes standard Internet data communications interfaces to support communications with coupon generating subsystem and with mobile devices . In one embodiment campaign management subsystem also includes a dedicated security component such as a Hardware Security Module that is responsible for cryptographic key storage and operations in support of secure communication between the campaign management subsystem and the coupon generating engine .

Campaign management subsystem may also contain one or more coupon generating engine s that can be used to generate coupons for distribution directly to mobile devices.

As described herein in one embodiment the coupon generating engine is comprised of a tamper resistant microprocessor capable of running multiple secure software applications. In one embodiment software that governs the generation of a coupon is implemented in the microprocessor.

Coupon generating engine also includes support for cryptographic operations that are essential for maintaining the security and integrity of the software operations in the microprocessor and also support secure data communications with the campaign management subsystem . The security model for this invention relies on end to end security between the campaign management subsystem and coupon generating engine where the authenticity and integrity of all communication can be verified by either end campaign management subsystem or coupon generating engine . The data channel can also be encrypted end to end if required. This protection helps mitigate potential fraud involving the transmission of Campaign rules to a coupon generating engine that were not created by the campaign management subsystem . Implementation of end to end communication security and coupon generation with signatures or similar cryptographic elements is referred to herein as secure channel.

With reference still to a number of embodiments for implementing a coupon generating subsystem are shown in accordance with an embodiment. An embodiment could be implemented using a variety of technologies in terms of the coupon generating engine and optional communication components. For example mobile communications interface enables the coupon generating engine to communicate directly with a mobile device. In contrast communications interface enables the coupon generating engine to communicate directly with the campaign management subsystem . In yet another embodiment coupon generating engine may be integrated directly into a mobile device as illustrated in coupon generating subsystem . In the case of coupon generating subsystem the mobile device is considered the dedicated communications capability supporting communications between the campaign management subsystem and coupon generating engine .

Coupon generating subsystem is an embodiment of coupon generating engine being a standalone coupon generating subsystem that includes coupon generating engine and an integrated ISO 14443 contactless communications interface and antenna that serves as the mobile communications interface . In one embodiment coupon generating subsystem communicates with a mobile device that supports ISO 14443 communications. One such mobile device device is an Android smart phone with Near Field Communication NFC . In general NFC refers to is a set of standards for smartphones and similar devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into proximity. NFC applications include contactless transactions data exchange and simplified setup of more complex communications such as Wi Fi. In another embodiment tag communication refers to communication between an NFC device and an unpowered NFC chip.

NFC standards cover communications protocols and data exchange formats and are based on radio frequency identification RFID standards including ISO IEC 14443 and FeliCa ISO IEC 18092 and the like which are defined by the NFC Forum.

With respect to coupon generating subsystem mobile device transmits any campaign and management data on an intermittent basis from the campaign management subsystem to the coupon generating engine using mobile communications interface via mobile device . Similarly mobile device is also used to retrieve generated coupons from the coupon generating engine via this mobile communications interface to mobile device communications interface.

Coupon generating subsystem is an embodiment of a coupon generating subsystem with a number of components similar to those described in coupon generating subsystem but also includes an additional dedicated campaign management subsystem communications interface such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth or mobile radio module. In one embodiment the campaign management subsystem communications interface is used to transmit campaign and management data from the campaign management subsystem to the coupon generating engine and may be initiated by either the coupon generating engine or campaign management subsystem .

In one embodiment mobile device is used to retrieve generated coupons from the coupon generating engine in the coupon generating subsystem via the ISO 14443 mobile communications interface to NFC communications interface.

With reference to coupon generating subsystem an embodiment of a coupon generating subsystem that includes a dedicated communications component such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth or Cellular Radio module that serves as both the communications interface and mobile communications interface interfaces is shown.

Coupon generating subsystem illustrates an embodiment of the integration of the coupon generating engine in a mobile device . For example mobile device supports the loading of software in the tamper resistant Subscriber Identifier Module SIM in which case the coupon generating engine would be implemented within the SIM. Another embodiment hosts the coupon generating engine software in an embedded component of the mobile device . In yet another embodiment coupon generating engine is implemented in a secure processing environment that can be plugged into an accessory slot of the mobile device such as a microSD slot.

In one embodiment since coupon generating subsystem is an integrated component of a mobile device communication of campaign and management data between the coupon generating engine and campaign management subsystem would typically be accomplished via the cellular or Wi Fi radio of the mobile device . In one embodiment requesting and receiving coupons from the coupon generating engine is accomplished via an application programming interface API invoked by a mobile software application running in the mobile device .

In one embodiment coupon generating subsystem is built as a standalone system in many form factors such as paper type advertisements for a magazine newspaper poster etc. In another example coupon generating subsystem is contained within items such as a key fob plastic card etc. A coupon generating subsystem as described above in coupon generating subsystem would be an example of the type of coupon generating subsystem supporting this implementation.

In another embodiment coupon generating subsystem is electronically integrated within larger systems such as a digital billboard system home entertainment system home appliance automobile etc. For these latter examples coupon generating subsystem may be implemented in a fashion similar to coupon generating subsystem where the coupon generating engine is integrated within a larger system that is responsible for data communications and can support the data communication needs of the coupon generating subsystem to the campaign management subsystem . Alternatively coupon generating subsystem may include its own dedicated communications interface capability but will still be integrated electronically within the larger system to support other type of interactions with the larger system.

In general mobile device and similarly mobile device is a typical smart phone running an operating system. In one embodiment the operating system is the Android operating system. However the technology is well suited to other smart phone operating systems such as but not limited to iOS Windows Phone RIM Blackberry OS etc. It should also be noted that the technology is platform and device independent.

In general data communication between the mobile device and campaign management subsystem is typically accomplished via the integrated cellular or Wi Fi radios of the mobile device . In one embodiment communication between a mobile device and coupon generating subsystem and coupon generating subsystem assumes an NFC capability in the mobile device . In another embodiment communication between a mobile device and coupon generating subsystem assumes Wi Fi Bluetooth or cellular radio capability in the mobile device . And as described above communication between a mobile device and coupon generating subsystem would take place via an API and application software running within the mobile device .

As stated previously the technology is platform and device independent. This platform and device independence also extends to the definition of the communication interfaces. For example although NFC Wi Fi Bluetooth and Cellular radio communication are cited as communication interface examples other communications interfaces capable of transmitting the desired data between the subsystems may be utilized. For example in place of NFC sound waves light waves and the like may be used to carry coupon retrieval communication between the mobile device and coupon generating subsystem if both were appropriately implemented and configured. One of a plurality of possible sound wave communications examples is Zoosh by Naratte which can provide secure short range point to point communication over ultrasonic sound waves.

Referring now to a sequence diagram depicting the set up a marketing campaign is shown in accordance with an embodiment. In one embodiment campaign owner is a business owner who desires to run a campaign involving one or more of the coupon generating subsystem . Additionally the mobile device of is assumed to be under the control of the campaign owner . The mobile device in this sequence is used to activate coupon generating subsystems that do not include a dedicated network communication capability.

Referring also to a flowchart of the setup of a marketing campaign is shown in accordance with an embodiment. At of one embodiment develops a campaign having a set of rules at a campaign management system. At of one embodiment establishes a communication channel between the campaign management system and a coupon generating subsystem.

For example with reference again to at . the campaign owner interacts with the campaign definer module of the campaign management subsystem to set the types of a coupon that will be offered and the rules involving the distribution of those coupons. For example the campaign owner may want to offer a very small number of high value coupons per coupon generating subsystem or across the entire set of coupon generating subsystem used in the campaign. Moreover in a random reward embodiment the campaign owner will determine odds that will affect the randomized behavior of the coupon generation.

In Step . the campaign owner determines which coupon generating subsystem will participate in the Campaign. In this case it is assumed that there is at least one instance of each of the coupon generating subsystem types that will be used for the Campaign. The campaign owner sets this selection using the coupon generating subsystem selection module of the campaign management subsystem . Steps . to . involve the campaign activation module according to the campaign owner s preferences as established in Steps . and ..

For example creating campaigns includes in part the creation of campaign rules related to the set up of the types of a coupon and number of a coupon to be distributed and rules that may involve randomness in the coupon generation. Campaign creation also involves the identification of which coupon generating subsystem will be used in the campaign. The campaign data is then transmitted to the coupon generating engine of the specified coupon generating subsystem where the campaign data and associated rules are used to generate coupons within the coupon generating engine . Once the rules and rewards are distributed to a coupon generating device the coupon generating devices can then operate autonomously and even off line. That is they are secure following the rules that were set and then generate tokens for the lifespan of the campaign.

Generation of the coupons will also typically involve a security operation such as a digital signature or generation of cryptogram to be used to verify the authenticity of the coupon. This cryptographic element can then be used subsequently to verify that a coupon was generated by an authentic coupon generating subsystem and optionally can be linked to a specific instance of a mobile device or consumer using the mobile device. Authenticity is especially important in verifying high value coupons to ensure that the system only generates the correct number of high value coupons as specified by the campaign owner .

Referring again to at of one embodiment provides the campaign having a set of rules from the campaign management system to the coupon generating subsystem via the communication channel. At of one embodiment authorizes the coupon generating subsystem to independently generate a coupon based on the set of rules of the campaign without requiring communication between the coupon generating subsystem and the campaign management system

For example as shown in at Step . a coupon generating subsystem is activated. In general activation occurs with data communication via a mobile device . For example campaign owner uses a mobile device with software for transmitting data between the campaign management subsystem and the coupon generating subsystem . In one embodiment data communication between the campaign management subsystem and mobile device is via the Internet and cellular or Wi Fi communications capability of the mobile device and data communication between the mobile device and coupon generating subsystem is via ISO 14443 capability of the coupon generating subsystem and NFC capability of the mobile device .

In Step . coupon generating subsystem is activated. In general activation occurs with data communication from the campaign management subsystem to the coupon generating subsystem via the Internet and the communications interface capability of the coupon generating subsystem

In Step . coupon generating subsystem is activated. In general activation occurs with data communication from the campaign management subsystem to the coupon generating subsystem via the Internet and the dedicated communications component capability of the coupon generating subsystem

Step . involves activating the coupon generating subsystem with the campaign management subsystem communicating with the coupon generating subsystem via the Internet and cellular data communications capability of the mobile device .

It should be appreciated that the setup process may be run at any point during the lifecycle of a campaign. For example the campaign owner may choose to modify any or all of the rules of the campaign which had been previously set within one or more of the coupon generating subsystem . This modification would result in the transmission of the new setup data to any of the affected coupon generating subsystem .

With reference now to a sequence diagram depicting the retrieval of a coupon via consumer interactions with the various forms of coupon generating subsystem . In one embodiment the operation of sequence diagram relies on a campaign that has previously been set up as illustrated in . In mobile device is a device belonging to a consumer who uses it to retrieve coupons from one or more of the various coupon generating subsystems 

Referring also to a flowchart for retrieving coupons from the coupon generating subsystem is shown in accordance with an embodiment. At of one embodiment determines a mobile device is within a broadcast range of the coupon generating subsystem. At of one embodiment queries the mobile device for identifying information. At of one embodiment transmits a coupon from the coupon generating subsystem to the mobile device.

For example suppose campaign owner wants to run a campaign such as a coupon special or the like. In one embodiment coupon generating subsystem is located at the door on the way into the store. When a customer passes the coupon generating subsystem the customer uses her mobile device to interact with the coupon generating subsystem . For example the interaction may be a near field communication NFC a tap between the user s mobile device and coupon generating subsystem or the like. The interacting allows coupon generating subsystem to tell the mobile device to launch an application while also delivering an instant reward. In one embodiment the instant reward is delivered to the mobile device in less than a second.

In Step .consumer uses a mobile device to interact with coupon generating subsystem . In one embodiment the user launches a mobile application that contains software capable of interacting with coupon generating subsystem . However in another embodiment the interaction with coupon generating subsystem launches an application on the user s mobile device in addition to providing an instant coupon.

At Step . one embodiment synchronizes any management data between the campaign management subsystem and the mobile device software such as but not limited to reporting and management of a campaign the coupon generating subsystem and instances of mobile device software that may be available. In one embodiment step .is optional or dependent on the availability of a connection between the mobile device and campaign management subsystem at the time synchronization is desired.

In Step .and . software on the mobile device communicates with coupon generating subsystem via the NFC interface of the mobile device and via the 14443 mobile communications interface of the coupon generating subsystem to retrieve a coupon.

In Step .and . software on the mobile device communicates with coupon generating subsystem via the NFC interface of the mobile device and via the 14443 mobile communications interface of the coupon generating subsystem to retrieve a coupon.

In Step . the coupon generating subsystem is broadcasting its coupon generating service which the mobile device software can detect assuming the mobile device has the necessary hardware e.g. Bluetooth if coupon generating subsystem is broadcasting over Bluetooth . In Step .the software in the mobile device responds to the broadcast from Step .and sends a coupon request to the coupon generating subsystem via the communication interface defined in the broadcast. In Step .the coupon generating subsystem responds to the mobile device by sending a coupon back via the communication interface set up in Step .

In Steps .and .software on the mobile device invokes an API that requests and retrieves a coupon from the coupon generating subsystem

As described previously each coupon generating engine is capable of generating coupons. The generation of the coupons is determined by the rules set by the campaign owner via the campaign management subsystem . The rules can be as simple as only setting the number and types of a coupon to be generated. Thus one embodiment utilizes coupon generating engine to generate the coupon based on the set of rules of the campaign and then utilizes a communications protocol to provide the coupon from the coupon generating engine to a mobile device.

In one embodiment if randomness is also chosen as a factor for the coupon generation additional rules will be included with desired odds of generation a probabilistic algorithm and random number generator in the coupon generating engine can then generate the randomized coupons according to those rules.

These rules can also include the ability to define coupon generation across multiple coupon generating engines such that a pool of a coupon can be segmented and targeted to specific coupon generating engines or spanning multiple coupon generating engines. For example a campaign owner may wish to offer a limited number of high value coupons across multiple coupon generating engines.

For example campaign owner may specify a total number of high value coupons to be offered which is less than the total number of targeted coupon generating engines. In one embodiment some coupon generating engines will not be allowed to generate the high value coupons. In one embodiment the campaign management subsystem relies on the campaign owner to indicate which coupon generating engine will generate the high value coupons and which will not.

In another embodiment where the campaign owner wants to preserve randomness in the coupon generation process the campaign management subsystem could run a randomization routine to randomly select which coupon generating engine will be enabled to generate the highest value coupons. Any remaining coupon generating engine would receive rules that prevent them from generating the highest value coupons. In yet another embodiment more sophisticated processes may be used such as where the rules are affected by additional data that is introduced into the coupon generation process throughout the lifecycle of a campaign.

In yet another embodiment each distributed individual coupon generating subsystem has its own random rule set. Thus the results and rewards are specific to the particular coupon generating subsystem . For example a random campaign may include rules such as 1 of the people that interact with the coupon generating device will receive a 40 off coupon 30 of the people that interact with the coupon generating device will receive a 20 off coupon and 69 of the people that interact with the coupon generating device will receive a 10 off coupon. In other words the campaign is similar to a sweepstakes.

In one embodiment a random number generator is used at the coupon generating subsystem to run the random campaign. Thus as a user interacts with the coupon generating subsystem the random number generator on the coupon generating subsystem provides a number in the range of 1 100. If the number generated by the random number generator in is 1 then the person receives a 40 off coupon. If the number generated by the random number generator is 2 31 then the person receives a 30 off coupon if the number generated by the random number generator in the coupon generating device is 32 100 then the user will receive a 10 off coupon.

One embodiment involves the linking of the time of day with the coupon generation process such that specific coupons are generated at the prescribed times. In another embodiment where randomness is a factor in the coupon generation process the odds of getting a higher value coupon may be greater or less at a particular time of day depending on the preference of the campaign owner. The time data could be known by the coupon generating engine as a result of using a clock internal to the coupon generating engine or coupon generating subsystem . In an alternative embodiment the mobile device provides an authenticated time data retrieved from the campaign management subsystem and transmits it via mobile communications interface to the coupon generating engine .

In another embodiment consumer interaction with coupon generating subsystem includes the transmission to the coupon generating engine of additional data such as profile data to indicate that consumer is a member of a separate loyalty program with the campaign owner or even a first time user of the system. In one embodiment the coupon generating engine uses this additional data element in the coupon generation process to generate a specific coupon or increase the odds of a higher value randomized coupon being generated at the time that consumer retrieves a coupon. Similarly using additional data provided by the mobile device a coupon generating subsystem can determine if the same mobile device was involved in previous interactions and either reward consumer or prevent distribution of an additional coupon as set by campaign owner .

In yet another embodiment the coupon generating subsystem will keep count of the number of consumer visits and release a special reward based on the nth visitor. One variation involves the coupon generating subsystem using the RNG to determine the value used for the nth visitor.

Another example involves rewarding the consumer for visiting multiple coupon generating subsystems. For example consumer visits one coupon generating subsystem and collecting a digital coupon. The digital coupon is stored in the mobile device . Consumer then visits a second coupon generating subsystem and when retrieving a coupon therefrom the data from the first coupon is shared with the second coupon generating subsystem . The second coupon generating subsystem uses the additional data to generate a specific new coupon or to increase the odds of a higher value coupon being generated.

Another example illustrates the retrieval of a coupon from an online web site managed by the campaign owner . The online coupon was generated by the coupon generating engine contained within the campaign management subsystem . The consumer uses his mobile device to retrieve the online coupon and is then rewarded for visiting a subsequent physical coupon generating engine due to the fact that data related to the online coupon is transmitted to the physical coupon generating engine visited by consumer . The physical coupon generating engine can validate the data from the online coupon and alter its coupon generation result accordingly.

In one embodiment the validation process is part of the overall redemption process and can involve control and counting of individual rewards and countdown of rewards that have been issued by the system and the like. For example a campaign may include two grand prizes such as for example two bicycles. When a consumer wins one of the grand prizes the campaign management subsystem is notified of the redemption such as during the validation. At that time campaign management subsystem will update the campaign to note that only one bicycle remains. Similarly when the second bicycle coupon is redeemed the campaign management subsystem will update the campaign to note that both grand prizes have been awarded. As such any additional coupons for the grand prize would not be awarded and any attempts to redeem a grand prize coupon would be flagged.

In yet another embodiment viral distribution from one consumer to another consumer could be set up in the rules to reward a consumer for sharing a coupon with her friends and family. For example consumer 1 retrieves a coupon from a coupon generating subsystem and is encouraged to send that coupon to a friend or family member via some electronic transmission means such as email text messaging etc. Consumer 2 who receives the coupon from consumer 1 uses his mobile device and software thereon to store the coupon. In addition consumer 2 visits another coupon generating subsystem that is running the campaign from the first coupon. When consumer 2 interacts with a coupon generating subsystem data from the first coupon is transmitted to the coupon generating subsystem . In one embodiment the data is used to reward consumer 2 with a specific coupon or adjust the odds of consumer 2 receiving a higher value coupon.

In addition in the viral distribution scenario consumer 1 will receive a reward for sharing his coupon. Although there are numerous ways that the rewards could be generated in one embodiment the campaign management subsystem is notified of the coupon transfer by the mobile device and immediately generates a coupon and sends it to consumer 1. Once consumer 2 shares consumer 1 s coupon with a coupon generating subsystem an additional reward is delivered to consumer 1.

For example campaign management subsystem is notified of consumer 2 s interaction with a coupon generating subsystem . The notification could occur via the mobile device via the communications interface of the coupon generating subsystem or the like. Once notification is received the campaign management subsystem generates a coupon and sends it to consumer 1. That host generated coupon could be of higher value or could be used by the first consumer to increase the odds of higher value coupon generation during a future interaction between consumer 1 and a coupon generating subsystem in the campaign.

In one embodiment the coupon generation process may be linked to an instant online purchase process whereby a coupon represents a voucher for a purchase of a specific product or service. For example the coupon generating engine would generate the coupon with all pertinent purchase information from the campaign owner such as SKU number price delivery terms etc. Consumer would use their mobile device to accept the terms of the coupon and combine that coupon with all necessary payment data such as stored credit card data in a mobile application or references to online stored credit card data and transmit that coupon and associated data via the cellular or Wi Fi radio of the mobile device to campaign owner online storefront to complete the purchase transaction. Such a process could be described as a one tap purchase or one tap buy for those implementations where consumer is interacting with a coupon generating subsystem via NFC.

Although a number of embodiments for introducing data into the coupon generation process to derive a wide variety of campaigns are discussed the discussion is not exhaustive. It should also be noted that although this example embodiment involves the use of smart phones as the mobile device that is used by the consumer to retrieve the generated coupon in another embodiment the coupon generating subsystem is integrated in a system that includes a paper printer and the result of the coupon generation is a paper coupon that is printed out for consumer . Examples of the latter system type that could include an integrated coupon generating engine include a kiosk or point of sale coupon printing system and the like.

In another embodiment traditional game of chance algorithms are used by the coupon generating engine to generate coupons. For example the randomization process could be based on game of chance elements such as cards dice spinning wheels random number drawing etc. As such one embodiment could include consumer interacting with a coupon generating subsystem where consumer is not aware of the underlying algorithm used to generate a coupon but the algorithm happens to be a game of chance with standard distribution odds associated with the game.

Alternatively consumer could engage with the coupon generating subsystem with software that exposes a gaming experience as a part of the coupon generation process. For example a coupon generating subsystem implements a slot machine engine and a mobile device has software that simulates the user experience of a video slot machine when consumer interacts with the coupon generating subsystem . In one embodiment the payout table that the slot machine is operating against is set up by the campaign owner as part of the rules in the campaign management subsystem . The payouts are the coupons that are awarded by the coupon generating subsystem accordingly. As with the previous descriptions where additional data can be introduced to the coupon generating subsystem to affect the outcome of coupon generation process the same would apply to coupon generation involving game of chance algorithms. For example visiting multiple coupon generating subsystems could result in consumer being offered higher odds with successive visits to each additional coupon generating subsystem .

In another embodiment virtual currencies such as loyalty points could be introduced into the coupon generation process where consumer is allowed to wager in the interaction with the coupon generating subsystem . For example consumer will accumulate a larger number of loyalty points that can then be exchanged for high value coupons. This exchange could occur via the coupon generating subsystem or through the campaign management subsystem .

In another embodiment coupon generating engine contained within the campaign management subsystem is used to generate a large number of a coupon of differing values and securely load those coupons into coupon generating subsystem for distribution. In so doing the pre generated coupons may be distributed by the coupon generating subsystem .

Referring also to a flowchart depicting the verification of a generated coupon is shown in accordance with an embodiment. At of one embodiment receives a coupon transferred from a customer mobile device to a mobile device associated with the campaign. At of one embodiment utilizes the mobile device associated with the campaign to perform a validation of the coupon. At of one embodiment honors a valid coupon. At of one embodiment denies an invalid coupon or a coupon that has been previously redeemed.

For example with reference again to one embodiment of coupon verification involves the transfer of a coupon from a consumer to an employee of the campaign owner associated with a campaign Campaign Employee who is then able to transfer the coupon to the campaign management subsystem for verification. The campaign management subsystem is then used as the central verification system for coupons as specified by the campaign owner . Once a coupon is submitted to the campaign management subsystem for verification and verification is confirmed that particular coupon will be rejected if submitted again. This central verification system is used to verify high value coupons to prevent fraud.

For example in Step .consumer uses his mobile device to transfer a previously acquired coupon to the employee mobile device for verification.

In Step .employee uses a mobile device to transmit the coupon to the campaign management subsystem which is then able to verify the authenticity of the coupon.

For lower value coupons it s possible that a campaign owner may rely on systems that have components similar to a coupon generating engine but are designed to verify coupons rather than generate them. One embodiment involves a coupon verification card vCard that is a plastic card that has the same hardware components as a coupon generating subsystem but includes software that is used to verify coupons. In this example consumer attempts to redeem a coupon with an employee of the campaign by transferring the coupon from the consumer s mobile device to a mobile device under the control of the employee . Employee uses software on his mobile device to verify the coupon via NFC to 14443 communication between the mobile device and vCard .

For example in Step .consumer uses his mobile device to transfer a previously acquired coupon to the mobile device of employee for verification.

In Step . employee uses mobile device to transfer the coupon to a vCard which is then able to verify the authenticity of the coupon.

The present technology may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The present technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The foregoing Description of Embodiments is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form described. Instead example embodiments in this Description of Embodiments have been presented in order to enable persons of skill in the art to make and use embodiments of the described subject matter. Moreover various embodiments have been described in various combinations. However any two or more embodiments may be combined. Although some embodiments have been described in a language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed by way of illustration and as example forms of implementing the claims and their equivalents.

