---

title: Mobile microphone system portal app for meetings
abstract: An app for programmable personal mobile communications devices which is useful for people attending meetings, conferences, classrooms and the like is described. The app permits the device to operate as a microphone to address the audience through a local wireless network and the public address system and as an app for meeting functions, such as the queuing of speaker/questioners at the meeting, the handling of audience surveys and nondisclosure agreements, record-keeping at meetings and so forth. Furthermore, different aspects of the app allow a user to operate as a moderator/host of a meeting in one case or as an attendee/participant of the meeting in another.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538011&OS=09538011&RS=09538011
owner: 
number: 09538011
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140318
---
This patent application is a continuation in part patent application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 844 412 filed Mar. 15 2013 which is itself a continuation in part application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 430 618 filed Mar. 26 2012 which is itself a continuation in part application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 220 791 filed Jul. 28 2008 and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 144 893 on Mar. 27 2012 which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 962 067 filed Jul. 26 2007 and having the title MASH UP OF PHYSICAL SPACE AND CYBERSPACE and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 799 318 filed Mar. 15 2013 by Kenneth N. Sherman and Andrew Livingston and entitled Portal App for Meetings. 

The present invention relates to the fields of communications particularly closed environment communication local conferencing and the use of existing voice and data messaging systems in these fields of communication.

In meetings conferences classrooms and the like a typical question and answer period allows attendees and participants to ask questions from the floor. In a large venue without amplification others in the room often have trouble hearing the speaker. Commonly a microphone is provided in one or more aisles or a portable microphone is passed to a person wishing to ask a question. This can force people to maneuver their seating towards the aisles where microphone access might be more easily available or cause some significant and disturbing activity in audiences and lead to disruption of the underlying meeting. The movement of the microphones through the audience can be tedious slow e.g. from one extreme corner of a room to another and cumbersome. There can also be such significant jousting for attention as to be disconcerting to participants and lead to a loss of audience control. The current system also may not work because a microphone is not available does not work well or there is no portable microphone handy near the participant who wishes to speak. Often the participant speaker doesn t properly use a microphone waving it about or placing it too far away from his or her mouth while speaking thus negating the advantages of the microphone.

To address these issues U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 844 412 filed Mar. 15 2013 by Kenneth N. Sherman and Andrew Livingston and entitled Mobile Microphone System and Method which is herein incorporated by reference and related patent applications including U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 144 893 and 8 452 026 describe ways in which personal mobile communications devices including smartphones such as the Apple iPhone Samsung Galaxy and the like cellular telephones PDA s Personal Digital Assistants electronic tablets such as the Apple iPad the ASUS Nexus 7 and the like with mobile communication applications WiFi and Bluetooth laptop processors PC and Mac and other hand sized computer based communication devices can be especially used at large meetings gatherings conferences etc. as microphones. Wireless telephone networks and local wireless networks are used with the personal mobile communications devices of the attendees and participants of the meeting.

Programmable personal mobile communications devices such as smartphones can be adapted as microphones by applications sometimes termed apps. The present invention describes apps by which programmable personal mobile communications devices such as a smartphone can also be used into a portal for many other functions which are useful for meetings and the like besides that of microphone. Such meeting functions allow for the easy management and operation of meetings and gatherings by the moderator host and the straightforward participation and attendance by audience members for an enhanced experience.

The present invention provides for a method of operating a programmable personal mobile communications device at a meeting having a local wireless network connected to an amplified audio system. The method has the steps processing a speaker s voice into an electronic signal inside the user s personal mobile communications device transmitting the electronic signal as data via a local wireless network signal to a receiving device connected to the amplified audio system or to another personal mobile communications device connected to the amplified audio system and broadcasting the output of amplified audio system to the meeting and receiving information inviting a response such as a questionnaire over the local wireless network and transmitting a user questionnaire response back over the local wireless network so that both microphone functions and meeting functions are integrated in the programmable personal mobile communications device. Additionally transmitting data independent of the audio signal to and from programmable personal mobile communications devices and receiving devices in the meeting room to permit functions that support and manage questions comments and answers over conventional microphones. The processing and transmitting step can be performed so that the amplifier audio system transmits voice signals from the user to the meeting at the time voice signals are received from the user for processing synchronously or so that the amplifier audio system transmits voice signals from the user to the meeting at a time different from the time voice signals are received from the user for processing asynchronously . Further steps include receiving local wireless network signals corresponding to processed voice signals of other users of personal mobile communications devices at the meeting receiving local wireless network signals corresponding to transcriptions of other meetings sending and receiving local wireless network signals corresponding to a non disclosure agreement for the meeting and attendee signatures on such agreements.

The present invention also provides for a method of operating a programmable personal mobile communications device at a meeting having a local wireless network connected to an amplified audio system. The method has the steps a device and or a programmable personal mobile communications device receiving voice signals from a user of a personal mobile communications device the voice signals processed into local wireless network signals processing the local wireless network signals into voice signals and transmitting the voice signals over the amplified audio system to the meeting and transmitting an audience response question or questionnaire over the local wireless network and receiving a user response or questionnaire response back over the local wireless network so that microphone functions and meeting functions are integrated in the programmable personal mobile communications device. The receiving processing and transmitting step can be performed so that the amplifier audio system transmits voice signals over the amplified audio system to the meeting at the time processed voice signals are received from the user of the second personal mobile communications device or so that the amplifier audio system transmits voice signals over the amplifier audio system to the meeting at a time different from the time processed voice signals are received from the user of the second personal mobile communications device. Further steps include transmitting local wireless network signals corresponding to processed voice signals of other users of personal mobile communications devices at the meeting transmitting local wireless network signals corresponding to transcriptions of other meetings and transmitting local wireless network signals corresponding to a non disclosure agreement for the meeting.

The invention provides also for an app with two faces One face that is used by the meeting attendee or user the other face that is used by the manager of the meeting such as the speaker moderator or meeting organizer. Thus under controlled circumstances any person with the app can play the role of an attendee or a moderator without needing to download another app.

The invention provides for meeting leaders such as the aforementioned speakers moderators and meeting organizers who have access to the meeting manager side of the app to create and modify in real time a queue that determines the order of the questions and comments based on information about the attendees and what they wish to say.

The invention also provides for the app to act as a memory device or portal for the owner of the app to retrieve information about any meeting where the app was used by its owner. Such information includes but is not limited to presentation materials such as PowerPoints graphics photos and videos cited URLs attendee lists meeting descriptions and abstracts sponsor information audio and written transcripts and translations.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings in which like reference designations represent like features throughout the figures.

At meetings conventions gatherings conferences worship services classrooms and the like an audience and or participants is typically addressed by a public address system formed by speakers and amplifiers with a central microphone controlled by a host moderator. Besides audio communication the audience might also receive additional information through a visual display system . This is an ordinary audio visual system which is typically found at meetings gatherings conferences etc. today.

As described in the previously cited U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 844 412 the personal mobile communications devices in the audience can be used as microphones at such meetings gatherings conferences etc. In one arrangement illustrated by the functions of a central communications point is provided by a combination of a personal mobile communications device and a control computer which is connected to the public address system. The control computer represented by a laptop computer in and a personal mobile communications device in has one or more processors memory elements various input output units such as keyboards mice track balls and displays including touch sensitive displays and network connection units.

The attendees participants may use their personal mobile communications devices such as smartphones and the like as microphones to address others in the room via the public address or sound amplification system. show that the signals may be sent by WiFi processor based transmission to a processor system at the central communication point or by other wireless networks. The moderator or host at the central communications point the function of which may be fully automated by a processor or with a live presenter controls and directs the flow of information. Each electronic communication from an attendee participant may be queued for response at the central communications point and the moderator enables at least one electronic communication transmission from an attendee participant who has access to the central communications point to have at least part of the transmission broadcast at the meeting or allow open communication from the attendee participant to be broadcast. The electronic communication transmission may comprise or consist of textual information video information and or audio information.

As shown in the wireless information from the attendee participant s programmable personal mobile communication device is received by a wireless access point . A 802.11 Wi Fi Wireless Access Point is preferred but Local Wireless Networks can be formed by Bluetooth connections WiFi and Bluetooth mesh networks and other communication protocols such as infrared RF and even combinations and or hybrids of these technologies. The wireless access point also called a router connects the personal mobile communications device to a second personal mobile communications device which is connected by wire or Bluetooth to the public address system s microphone input to the amplifier system and hence to the speakers . Or the Wireless Access Point connects instead to a WiFi receiver that is wired through a server client relationship to the microphone input. This local wireless communications channel from one personal mobile communications device to another device either another personal mobile communications device which communicates by wire or Bluetooth to the microphone input or to a WiFi receiver wired through a server client relationship to the microphone input operates under the standards of IEEE 802.11. Attendee participant audio data i.e. the electronic audio signals are sent using UDP User Datagram Protocol and the control signals are sent using TCP Transmission Control Protocol . Personal mobile communication devices can be in many forms for example smartphones PDA s Personal Digital Assistants electronic tablets such as the Apple iPad the ASUS Nexus the Samsung Galaxy and other devices which are equipped with WiFi radio.

To allow the personal mobile communications devices of the attendee participants and moderator host to operate as described above software in the form of an app are installed in the devices. For example an app in the smartphone allows an attendee participant to communicate with the same app in the other smartphone the moderator s through the wireless access point . With connection to the public address system i.e. the amplifiers and speakers the app permits the smartphone to function as a microphone for the attendee participant caller. Since smartphones are nearly ubiquitous in modern society the personal mobile communications devices below are often described as smartphones though it should be understood that the devices should not necessarily be so limited.

To enhance the experience of the attendees participants having a smartphone for example the present invention provides for an app that greatly enhances the experience of the attendee participants and of the moderator host. As one example the app allows the attendee participant to permit the app automatically to download or for the attendee to post his or her profile for viewing by other attendee participants. This profile can be a so called social networking profile such as a user s Facebook and LinkedIn profile or it can be a profile from an attendee s company school or organization s website. It can be a profile created for the event at registration or created on the app itself by the attendee for general use or specifically for each event. The app can allow each person to access for every gathering he or she has ever attended where the app was used the profiles of presenters and attendees and the URLs for websites Powerpoints videos graphics photos and publications provided to by and for the participants at the gathering. Using application programming interfaces APIs the app acts as a platform so that providers of other meeting related apps can provide functionality and branding of their apps to the attendee participant audience members without attendees having to leave the app. Furthermore the app includes functions by which a programmable personal mobile communications device such as a smartphone with permission can allow its holder to become the moderator or host to run the meeting or gathering.

Attendees use the app by downloading it from the Apple app store or Google Play Store. This download is facilitated by meeting organizers when attendees register for a meeting student s sign up for a class worshipers join a church and so on. Fortunately once the app is downloaded it does not have to be downloaded for each event. It works for all events that use the app. Attendees to have to become associated with the event and the Wi Fi network used at the event. They may become automatically connected by a location service type of association as they walk in or near the room. Alternatively they may have to enter an event pass code that they know in advance or are given visually or orally when they walk in. The moderator or system incorporated in a device controlled by the moderator speaker or meeting organizer automatically accepts or rejects access depending on pre registration or as determined by each event. The app automatically connects to the appropriate WiFi network as entered by the moderator speaker or meeting organizer. Or failing that the attendee is provided with the WiFi Network s name and password.

Once connected the device that receives the attendee s WiFi data which may be the moderators s smartphone for example keeps a record of all of the attendee s phone identifying information attendee s profile and attendee s voice and data entries. This information is retained according to the rules established by and agreed to by the attendees and the meeting organizer in order to create the agreed upon balance between privacy and functionality such as the attendee s ability to retrieve meeting information year s later and the attendee s confidence in the security and protections from misuse provided by the meeting organizer.

Many functions of the app will be optional such as the ability of a moderator to allow an open mic where all participants will take turns in a polite manner or not as they do in meetings where more than one person has a live mic at the same time. Another option is for the moderator to cut off a long winded speaker or even to edit a prerecorded speaker. This would be similar to a call in radio show.

One particularly useful option for a meeting organizer is a Welcome Screen that confirms that the user is in the right room at the right time. In one embodiment the user was recognized by a location system when the user came into the WiFi reception area. As an example the Welcome screen reads Welcome User s Name to the Name of meeting meeting and the screen offers the user the option to view pre meeting materials loaded by the meeting organizer such as the attendee list attendee bios the meeting agenda or a program relevant URLs a list of Sponsors and speaker bios.

The app provides the opportunity for each attendee to make comments during the meeting or when determined by the meeting organizer and it displays running comments by attendees. The comments are threaded to maintain coherence. They can be time stamped and are displayed with at least the name of the attendee commenter. They also can include the photograph of the attendee commenter if supplied and even the attendees title and other profile information. It is now fairly conventional for meeting attendees to use Twitter to post comments about the meeting as the meeting is taking place. Sometimes these comments are simply short updates of what is going on in the meeting. They are usually posted to a Twitter hashtag a Twitter link to Tweets about a topic identifying the meeting. If the attendees can they usually like to use the same hashtag so readers can follow all everyone s comments. The app allows the meeting organizer to build in the hashtag for the event meeting. Then the user does not have to be concerned about entering the right hashtag indeed any hashtag. The user sees the Twitter ikon on each a screen the user is using anyway touches on the ikon and the keyboard and comment space appears. The Tweet automatically goes to the right hashtag.

The app provides a display of the event s video Power Points graphics and photos on the attendee s screen sometimes optimized or zoomable for easy viewing and it provides audio directly from the presenter s microphone and directly from attendees using the app which audio will then be able to be heard with minimal distortion directly over the attendee s earphones headphone s Bluetooth receivers or built in device speakers.

The app makes possible using to use the camera in the personal mobile device to show the attendee talking over the event s video display system. Similarly attendees using the app can upload data from their personal mobile device for display on the event s video display system and or for other attendee s and the event organizer to download on to their devices or to the cloud for later retrieval.

It is expected that the app will be controlled by a company the Company that owns or licenses the technology being described herein. The Company or its agents will monetize or at least control the operation of the technology by maintaining a system that utilizes an Internet connection to the Company s servers. These servers which may be operated by others on behalf of the Company will by talking to the app and accepting payments authorize a meeting organizer to host an event and provide means for the meeting organizer to pay for the service using the app. The servers also will allow a meeting organizer to authorize users to participate in the event also using the app. And when appropriate the servers also will allow users to pay the meeting organizer directly. Rules established by the meeting organizer and maintained by the company s servers will keep events from overlapping using log in passwords or codes that can be entered manually by meeting organizers and users or automatically by the app itself once a pre registration process has been completed with the Company s servers.

As examples of the appearance of the app on a smartphone shows some wireframe screens for a meeting attendee participant on the left and for a host moderator of the meeting on the right. The participant screen shows that the attendee participant has the floor and is connected to the public address system. The smartphone is functioning as a microphone Microphone is live . Also shown on the screen is the title for the meeting and the date at the screen top. Immediately below is the status of microphone function and a Stop Meeting icon which is discussed below. At the bottom of the screen is a bar including Meeting Logs People Current Meeting and Settings icons. More details are found further below.

The screen for host moderator shows that his her smartphone in the queuing function i.e. managing the list of attendee participants who have called into the central receiving function and are now waiting to have the floor i.e. to have their personal mobile communications device activated as a microphone. The screen also shows the name of the meeting Staff Meeting at the stop of the screen and has the same icon bar at the bottom as does the attendee participant screen. Of course the icon bar could also be different.

The Queuing function also allows the host moderator to manage the queue of people who wish to have the floor and the microphone. As shown in the drawing the screen places the people in order of the receipt of his her call into the host moderator. As each person completes his time on the floor the positions of the other persons in the queue advance to the top and the person reaching the top has his or her device activated as a microphone. The host can also move positions of persons in the queue around. Furthermore if some of the attendees participants questions are in text form the host moderator can select those questions from the queue. The host moderator can also check information about the attendee participant from their profiles as posted in their LinkedIn Facebook etc. accounts. Questions which are not answered at the meeting are archived to allow the panelists to respond later through email text or voice. As in the case of the participant screen the host screen at the bottom also has Meeting Logs People Current Meeting and Settings icons. Questions are recorded and or texted to the host moderator.

To enter the app the user performs an initial sign in on his personal mobile communications device. To obtain the app the user downloads the app from one or more network servers. The actual locations of the servers might be in the cloud as is common today. The personal mobile communications device such as a smartphone with the downloaded code and with the assets in the cloud and other network locations performs the functions and operations described below.

Having entered the app the user is faced with an initial screen shown by a wireframe in . This screen allows the app user to select between becoming a meeting host moderator or becoming a meeting attendee participant. If the user selects the Create Meeting icon then the user becomes the host moderator of the created meeting. The functions of a host moderator of the app are engaged. If the user selects the Join Meeting icon the user becomes an audience member and the functions of attendee participant are engaged. Alternatively the apps for a moderator host and an attendee participant can be separated so that upon signing in the user is recognized as a moderator host or an attendee participant and the appropriate functions appear on the user s app.

Assuming that the user of the app selects the Create Meeting icon a Create Session screen appears as represented by the wireframe shown in . To create a session or meeting the user fills the information of the name of the session a description of the session its date and time and a unique number generated by the app so as to identify the session and then engages the Create icon to store the session information. The app then proceeds to the wireframe screen shown in which confirms the creation of the session and its particulars. Additionally the screen shows two icons Invite Friends and Enter Session.

The Invite Friends icon when engaged moves the process of the app to the Invite Participants function and wireframe screen shown in . Here the moderator host creates a list of attendees participants to join the created meeting. The list is drawn from the user s contact list drawn from the app itself social media and other locations. Note that there is search function on the screen to help the moderator host create the list. Notification of the persons on the list is made by email text phone call or notification within the app for those persons who also have the described app in their personal mobile communications device. Having notified all the persons on the list the app moves to a Participants Invited screen as shown by the wireframe shown in . Through an Invite More Participants icon the user returns to the Invite Participants screen shown in through which function the user can invite more attendee participants to the session. The data of the identities of the invited participants and their electronic addresses are stored for other functions such as the NDA function discussed below.

The Enter Session icon engagement leads to the session screen illustrated by the wireframe of . This is the home screen for the moderator host. The name and date of the session is located at the top of the screen and a set of icons Start Meeting Invite Participants NDA Upload Files Audience Response Quiz Audience Queue Transcribe Personal Listening Incognito is placed below. At the bottom of the screen interface there is a bar with four navigation icons Meeting Logs People Current Meeting and Setting. The Meeting Logs icon allows a user to access all information from all previous meetings where the app was used. The People icon has two components the Current Meeting tab which shows all of the audience members currently in attendance and the My Friends tab which is a list of all of the people the user has added to his contact list. This allows the user to access information about people they ve met at previous gatherings. The Current Meeting icon brings the user back to the homepage for the meeting he is currently attending. Finally the Settings icon allows the user can change details about his or her account i.e. password email address display name photograph social media connections etc.

Returning to the top of engagement of the Start Meeting icon can start the meeting which begins the recording process. This is performed automatically so that an audio record of the meeting is made and stored. The app also indicates that the meeting has started. The Invite Participants icon leads back to the screen shown in so that the host can invite possibly more session participants. The attendee participants to be invited can be found through the People icon in the bar at the bottom the screen. The NDA icon leads to the wireframe screen of the Upload Files icon leads to the wireframe screen of the Audience Response Quiz icon leads to the wireframe screen of the Audience Queue icon leads to the wireframe screen of the Transcribe icon leads to the wireframe screen of and the Personal Listening icon leads to the wireframe screen of . These functions and screens are discussed in further detail below and many of the function screens have counterparts for the attendee participant also.

When the NDA Non disclosure Agreement icon is engaged the app moves to the wireframe screen shown in . The app has a non disclosure agreement which may be uploaded from the host moderator s library or through integration with file storage services such as Docusign Dropbox Box and or the like. The host moderator then sends the agreement to all the attendees participants at the session by the Send icon for their signatures and records the acceptances and possible rejections of the NDA by the attendee participants by the Record icon at the bottom of the screen. The Record icon allows the host moderator to record a voice stamp inside the NDA. These operations are performed electrically through the personal mobile communications devices of the attendee participants to the session. This NDA function allows the host moderator to easily maintain the subject matter of the session under confidentiality. shows the wireframe screen as the moderator host awaits responses from the attendee participants at the meeting. indicates that Bobby has responded with a check next to his name and voice recording symbol for a real time confirmation that the NDA is being signed. shows that more attendee participants Marc and Andrew have also responded and shows that all attendee participants have accepted the NDA.

With the engagement of the Audience Response Quiz icon the host moderator can create an audience participation quiz or survey to determine the effectiveness of the session. Besides using the app s own quizzes the app also can integrate third party quiz creation services such as Survey Monkey or WuFoo for example. The wireframe screen of shows an initial form to be filed out by the host moderator for submission. Upon submission of the form the screen of confirms that the form has been created the quiz or survey created and distributed to the attendee participants of the meeting. The results of the quiz can be held by the host moderator or broadcast for the attendee participants to see.

The Audience Queue function allows the host moderator to manage the attendee participants who wish to speak at a session. The screen for this function is illustrated by the wireframe screen of which shows a list of people who wish to speak. By clicking on the names on the queue list the host moderator can view information about the prospective speakers and reorder the list. By clicking on the symbols the moderator host can see the question if it has been submitted as illustrated in for Susan T s question. By clicking on the symbol which has replaced the symbol the moderator host can close the question window. The Audience Queue screen also has a Make Open icon to throw the floor open to all the prospective speakers so that they can all use their smartphones to talk at once if they so desire. In this circumstance common courtesy among the speakers is used to govern the speaking order.

The app allows for the transcription of various audio files. This is initiated through the Transcribe icon and the designation of the file to be transcribed. shows that process of transcribing the attendee participant responses to the session NDA. Likewise the various audio files can be listened to through the app again and the Personal Listening icon. shows the screen for the moderator host to listen to the attendee participant responses to the NDA with a volume control. It should be noted that through the Personal Listening function the moderator host and the attendee participants can listen to the current meeting through their own personal mobile communications device since the current meeting is being recorded. This feature is a great advantage to those with hearing impairment or those attendee participants in bad physical locations at the meeting.

Engagement of the Meeting Logs icon in the bottom screen bar of the screen see for example allows the user to access all information from all of his or her previous meetings. shows a Meetings Log for an attendee participant which is the same for a moderator host. To access meeting information a user clicks on a meeting and are brought to a portal which gives them access to all the information stored from that meeting. A wireframe screen for information for a meeting is shown in . The title of the meeting and its date is shown at the top of the screen. The user can see the NDA he was presented with and did or did not sign through the NDA icon the files uploaded for that meeting through the Upload Files icon the audience response quiz he took and its results through the Audience Response icon a list of questions and questioners at the meeting through the Audience Queue the number next to the icon indicates that there were 3 questioners icon the transcription of the meeting through the Transcribe icon and a log of his incognito status through that icon. Finally the Personal Listening icon allows the user to listen the audio files of the meeting. This is useful if no transcription of the meeting is available.

Engagement of the People icon in the bottom screen bar leads to one of two tabs of the People function Current Meeting and My Friends. shows the screen for the Current Meeting tab as indicated by the solid line around the Current Meeting icon below the People title as compared to the dotted line around the My Friends icon in the wireframe screen. Of course other indicators such as color fonts and the like may indicate which tab of the People function is operative. In passing it should be noted that in this embodiment of the present invention the tab which appears after the People icon is engaged is the last tab of the People function when the user left that function. Alternatively the particular tab which appears could be randomly selected or be set in the Settings function.

The screen for the Current Meeting tab shows all of the attendee participants in attendance at the session here Bobby B Marty W and Marc E. The user can send personal messages to these attendee participants by engaging the small envelope icon next to each circle with the name of each attendee participant. The text below related to describes how a message is sent. The user can also add an attendee participant to his or her My Friends list by engaging the icon next to each attendee participant circle. My Friends represents a list of contacts which the user has accumulated and allows the user to access information about the contacts through the app.

As stated earlier engaging the Current Meeting icon in the bar returns the user to the meeting he or she is currently hosting and the screen. The Setting icon allows the user to change the settings of his app account.

If one returns to the wireframe screen of and assumes that the user of the app selects the Join Meeting icon the user assumes the role of an attendee participant who is to join a meeting or session. shows a screen with a list of sessions for the attendee participant to join. shows the home screen of the attendee participant who joins the Staff Meeting session of Oct. 1 2012. This is the same wireframe screen as for a moderator host see except that an Ask Question icon replaces the Start Meeting icon of the moderator host.

If attendee participant user selects the Ask Question icon the wireframe screen of appears. As shown by the icons on that screen the attendee participant can ask a question live or send a text question in. The screen indicates the attendee participant s location in the question queue. The screen shown in allows the Start Mic icon to transform the attendee participant s smartphone into a fully functional microphone and the screen of appears. The Stop Mic icon turns off the microphone function. If the user has selected the Text Question icon then the screen of appears with a window into which the attendee participant can type his question and then submit it to the meeting moderator host. The screen returns where the Done icon returns to attendee participant to the meeting screen . The user can record a question and send that audio file in to the moderator host instead of addressing the audience directly.

Many of the other icons of the attendee participant user have the functions as previously described for moderator host. For example through Audience Response icon of the screen the attendee participant can engage with the audience response quiz or survey which the moderator host of the meeting has distributed. shows a quiz registration screen by which the user identifies himself and submits his response to the meeting quiz. The screen acknowledges the submission of the quiz response to the user.

Through the NDA icon of the screen the attendee participant can check the status of any non disclosure agreement which might have been distributed for the current meeting. The screen of indicates to the user that the he has accepted the NDA.

As for the moderator host the attendee participant user upon engaging the Meeting Logs icon in the bottom bar sees a screen list of his previous meetings shown in . Clicking on one of those meetings leads to the Meeting Log screen shown in which is again very similar to that of the moderator host. Clicking on the Question Queue icon on the screen allows the attendee participant to see the queue of prospective speakers his place in line if he has scheduled a question and to remove himself from the queue if he so desires . Note that attendee participant has access to information about the prospective speakers by clicking on their names or their question by clicking on the symbols next to their names in the same manner as a moderator host. The question posed by prospective speaker Susan T is illustrated in .

Hence the present invention integrates the functions of a microphone and meeting functions into an app for a programmable personal mobile communications device to enhance the experience of the device user.

This description of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form described and many modifications and variations are possible in light of the teaching above. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications and the titles were selected only to provide a guide to the reader and should not be considered as limiting the subject matter of the entitled text. This description will enable others skilled in the art to best utilize and practice the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to a particular use. The scope of the invention is defined by the following claims.

