---

title: Communication method and apparatus for electronic device in mobile communication system
abstract: A communication method and apparatus of an electronic device in a mobile communication system is provided. The method includes performing data communication through a cellular communication network, determining whether a service type of the data communication matches one of predetermined service types, and switching, when the service type of the data communication matches one of the predetermined service types, from the cellular communication network to a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) of an Access Point (AP) for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to a first threshold value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538445&OS=09538445&RS=09538445
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09538445
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140825
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Aug. 23 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0100040 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to an electronic device and more particularly to a communication method of and apparatus for an electronic device selectively using a cellular communication network and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN .

Recently there is a growing tendency for electronic devices to evolve as multimedia devices capable of supporting diverse supplementary services such as a digital organizer function a game function and a schedule management function. With the diversification of multimedia services supported by an electronic device there is a need for a method of facilitating communication and managing the supplementary services efficiently.

Currently a WLAN function equipped electronic device stays in a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi on off state according to a user setting whether or not a WLAN Wi Fi Access Point AP is available.

If a Wi Fi module of an electronic device is turned on in an area without an available Wi Fi AP electrical current is unnecessary wasted. In addition if the user manually powers on off a Wi Fi module or if the electronic device is configured to always use a cellular communication network for communication regardless of the availability of a Wi Fi connection excessive communication costs are likely to result.

The present invention has been made to solve the above mentioned problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides a communication method and apparatus that is capable of allowing the electronic device to use the cellular communication network and WLAN selectively.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a communication method of an electronic device in a mobile communication system is provided. The communication method includes performing data communication through a cellular communication network determining whether a service type of the data communication matches one of predetermined service types and switching when the service type of the data communication matches one of the predetermined service types from the cellular communication network to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN of an Access Point AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or greater than or equal to a first threshold value.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an electronic device performing communication in a mobile communication system is provided. The electronic device includes a cellular communication module configured to communicate with a cellular communication network a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN module configured to communicate with at least one Access Point AP and a processor configured to determine whether a service type of the data communication matches one of the predetermined service types in a state of communicating through the cellular communication network and control switching when the service type matches one of the predetermined service types from the cellular communication network to a WLAN of an Access Point AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to a first threshold value.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a non transitory computer readable recording medium including a program for executing a communication method is provided. The communication method includes performing data communication through a cellular communication network determining whether a service type of the data communication matches one of predetermined service types and switching when the service type matches one of the predetermined service types from the cellular communication network to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN of an Access Point AP for which its beacon is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to a first threshold value.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present invention are described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may be embodied in alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments described below.

The terminology used herein to describe embodiments of the invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Expressions such as include and may include which may be used in the present invention denote the presence of the disclosed functions operations and constituent elements and do not limit one or more additional functions operations and constituent elements. In the present disclosure the terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence or a possibility of an addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

Furthermore in the present disclosure the expression and or includes any and all combinations of the associated listed words. For example the expression A and or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

In the present disclosure expressions including ordinal numbers such as first and second etc. may modify various elements. However such elements are not limited by the above expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The above expressions are used merely for the purpose of distinguishing one element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices while both being user devices. For example a first element could be referred to as a second element and similarly a second element could also be referred to as a first element without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In the case where a component is referred to as being connected to or accessed by another component it should be understood that not only is the component directly connected to or accessed by the other component but also there may exist another component therebetween. In the case where a component is referred to as being directly connected to or directly accessed by another component it should be understood that there is no component therebetween. The terms used in the present disclosure are only used to describe embodiments of the present invention and are not intended to limit the present invention. As used herein singular forms are intended to include the plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise and vice versa.

An electronic device according to the present invention may be a device including a communication function. For example the device may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a digital audio player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch home appliances for example an air conditioner vacuum an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner and the like an artificial intelligence robot a TeleVision TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio device various medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanning machine an ultrasonic wave device or the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for a ship for example navigation equipment for a ship gyrocompass or the like avionics a security device electronic clothes an electronic key a camcorder game consoles a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic frame an electronic album furniture or a portion of a building structure that includes a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and the like. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module a communication module and other similar and or suitable components.

The bus is a circuit which interconnects the above described elements and delivers a communication e.g. a control message between the above described elements.

The processor receives commands from the above described other elements e.g. the memory the user input module the display module the communication module etc. through the bus interprets the received commands and executes calculation or data processing according to the interpreted commands.

The memory stores commands or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the user input module the display module the communication module etc. or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory includes programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the above described programming modules may be implemented in software firmware hardware or any combination thereof.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. used to execute operations or functions implemented by other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API and the application . In addition the kernel provides an interface capable of accessing and controlling or managing the individual elements of the electronic device by using the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware serves as an intermediary between the API or the application and the kernel in such a manner that the API or the application can communicate with the kernel and exchange data therewith. In relation to work requests received from one or more applications the middleware for example may perform load balancing of the work requests by using a method of assigning a priority where system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. of the electronic device may be used by at least one of the one or more applications .

The API is an interface through which the application can control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and includes for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing character control or the like.

The user input module for example receives a command or data as input from a user and delivers the received command or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display module display a video an image data or the like to the user.

The communication module establishes communication between another electronic device and the electronic device . The communication module may support a predetermined short range communication protocol e.g. Wi Fi BlueTooth BT and Near Field Communication NFC or a predetermined network communication e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or the like . Each of the electronic devices and may be identical e.g. of an identical type to or different e.g. of a different type from the electronic device . Furthermore the communication module establishes communication between a server and the electronic device via the network .

Referring to the hardware includes one or more processors a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio coder decoder codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator a motor and any other similar and or suitable components.

The processor e.g. the processor includes one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor may be for example the processor illustrated in . The AP and the CP are illustrated as being in the processor in but may be in different Integrated Circuit IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

The AP executes an Operating System OS or an application program and thereby controls multiple hardware or software elements connected to the AP and processes arithmetic operations on various data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present invention the processor may further include a Graphical Processing Unit GPU .

The CP manages a data line and converts a communication protocol in the case of communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware and different electronic devices connected to the electronic device through the network . The CP may be implemented by for example a SoC. According to an embodiment of the present invention the CP performs at least one multimedia control functions. The CP for example distinguishes and authenticates a terminal in a communication network by using a Subscriber Identification Module e.g. the SIM card . Also the CP provides the user with services such as a voice telephony call function a video telephony call function text messaging packet data delivery and the like.

Furthermore the CP controls the transmission and reception of data by the communication module . In the elements such as the CP the power management module the memory and the like are illustrated as elements separate from the AP . However according to an embodiment of the present invention the AP may include at least one e.g. the CP of the above described elements.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP or the CP loads to a volatile memory a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other elements connected to each of the AP and the CP and processes the loaded command or data. Also the AP or the CP stores in a non volatile memory data received from or generated by at least one of the other elements.

The SIM card is a card implementing a Subscriber Identification Module SIM and is inserted into a slot formed in a portion of the electronic device . The SIM card includes unique identification information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory includes an internal memory and an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory illustrated in . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. and a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NOT AND NAND flash memory a NOT OR NOR flash memory etc. . According to an embodiment of the present invention the internal memory may be in the form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like.

The communication module includes a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RE module . The communication module may be for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include for example a Wi Fi unit a BT unit a GPS unit or a NFC unit . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function by using a radio frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card a modulator demodulator modem or the like for connecting the hardware to a network e.g. the Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a POTS or the like .

The RF module is used for transmission and reception of data for example transmission and reception of RF signals or electrical signals. The RF unit may include for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Also the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves in free space via a wireless communication for example a conductor a conductive wire or the like.

The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green and Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K and a Ultra Violet UV light sensor M. The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or may sense an operating state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or sensed information to an electrical signal. Additionally alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not illustrated an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not illustrated an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor not illustrated and the like. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an EMG sensor not illustrated an EEG sensor not illustrated an ECG sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit not illustrated for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The user input module includes a touch panel a pen sensor e.g. a digital pen sensor keys and an ultrasonic input unit . The user input module may be for example the user input module illustrated in . The touch panel recognizes a touch input in at least one of for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an acoustic wave scheme. Also the touch panel further includes a controller. In the capacitive type the touch panel is capable of recognizing proximity as well as a direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile response to the user.

The pen sensor e.g. a digital pen sensor for example may be implemented by using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input from the user or by using a separate sheet for recognition. For example a key pad or a touch key may be used as the keys . The ultrasonic input unit enables the terminal to sense a sound wave by using a microphone e.g. a microphone of the terminal through a pen generating an ultrasonic signal and to identify data. The ultrasonic input unit is capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present invention the hardware receives a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server which is connected to the hardware through the communication module .

The display module includes a panel or a hologram . The display module may be for example the display module illustrated in . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD and an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display and the like. The panel may be implemented so as to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may include the touch panel and one module. The hologram may display a three dimensional image in the air by using interference of light. According to an embodiment of the present invention the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector and a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example SD Multi Media Card MMC or Infrared Data Association IrDA .

The audio codec bidirectionally converts a voice to an electrical signal and vice versa. The audio codec converts voice information which is input to or output from the audio codec through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like.

The camera module captures an image and a moving image. According to an embodiment of the present invention the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens or a back lens an Image Signal Processor ISP and a flash LED.

The power management module manages power of the hardware . The power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an IC or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or an overcurrent from a charger to the battery. According to an embodiment of the present invention the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging method may include a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method an electromagnetic method and the like. Additional circuits e.g. a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier etc. for wireless charging may be added in order to perform the wireless charging.

The battery fuel gauge measures for example a residual quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during charging. The battery supplies power by generating electricity and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator indicates particular states of the hardware or a part e.g. the AP of the hardware for example a booting state a message state a charging state and the like. The motor converts an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. The processor controls the sensor module .

The hardware may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a module TV. The processing unit for supporting a module TV may process media data according to standards such as for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and the like. Each of the above described elements of the hardware according to an embodiment of the present invention may include one or more components and the name of the relevant element may change depending on the type of electronic device. The hardware according to an embodiment of the present invention may include at least one of the above described elements. Some of the above described elements may be omitted from the hardware or the hardware may further include additional elements. Also some of the elements of the hardware according to an embodiment of the present invention may be combined into one entity which may perform functions identical to those of the relevant elements before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as unit logic logical block component circuit or the like. The module may be a minimum unit of a component formed as one body or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module according to an embodiment of the present invention may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing certain operations which have been known or are to be developed in the future.

The programming module may be included or stored in the electronic device e.g. the memory or may be included or stored in the electronic device e.g. the memory illustrated in . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented in software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The programming module may be implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware and may include an OS controlling resources related to an electronic device e.g. the electronic device and or various applications e.g. applications executed in the OS. For example the OS may be Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada and the like.

The kernel e.g. the kernel includes a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager and a file system manager. The system resource manager performs the control allocation recovery and or the like of system resources. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a Wi Fi driver and or an audio driver. Also according to an embodiment of the present invention the device driver may include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver.

The middleware includes multiple modules previously implemented so as to provide a function used in common by the applications . Also the middleware may provide a function to the applications through the API in order to enable the applications to efficiently use limited system resources within the electronic device. For example as illustrated in the middleware e.g. the middleware includes at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager a security manager and any other suitable and or similar manager.

The runtime library may include for example a library module used by a complier in order to add a new function by using a programming language during the execution of the application . According to an embodiment of the present invention the runtime library perform functions which are related to input and output the management of a memory an arithmetic function and or the like.

The application manager manages for example a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager manages Graphical User Interface GUI resources used on the screen. The multimedia manager detects a format used to reproduce various media files and encodes or decodes a media file through a codec appropriate for the relevant format. The resource manager manages resources such as a source code a memory a storage space and or the like of at least one of the applications .

The power manager operates together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS manages a battery or power and provides power information and the like used for an operation. The database manager manages a database in such a manner as to enable the generation search and or change of the database to be used by at least one of the applications . The package manager manages the installation and or update of an application distributed in the form of a package file.

The connectivity manager manages a wireless connectivity such as for example Wi Fi and Bluetooth. The notification manager displays or reports to the user an event such as an arrival message an appointment a proximity alarm and the like in such a manner as not to disturb the user. The location manager manages location information of the electronic device. The graphic manager manages a graphic effect which is to be provided to the user and or a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager provides various security functions used for system security user authentication and the like. According to an embodiment of the present invention when the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has a telephone function the middleware further includes a telephony manager for managing a voice telephony call function and or a video telephony call function of the electronic device.

The middleware generates and uses a new middleware module through various functional combinations of the above described internal element modules. The middleware provides modules specialized according to types of OSs in order to provide differentiated functions. Also the middleware may dynamically delete some of the existing elements or may add new elements. Accordingly the middleware may omit some of the elements described in the various embodiments of the present invention may further include other elements or may replace some of the elements with other elements each of which performs a similar function but has a different name.

The API e.g. the API is a set of API programming functions each of which is provided with a different configuration according to an OS. In the case of Android or iOS for example one API set may be provided to each platform. In the case of Tizen for example two or more API sets may be provided to each platform.

The applications e.g. the applications include for example a preloaded application and or a third party application. The applications e.g. the applications include for example a home application a dialer application a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an Instant Message IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contact application a voice dial application an electronic mail e mail application a calendar application a media player application an album application a clock application and any other suitable and or similar application.

At least a part of the programming module may be implemented by instructions stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. When the instructions are executed by one or more processors e.g. the one or more processors the one or more processors performs functions corresponding to the instructions. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by for example the one or more processors . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

Names of the elements of the programming module e.g. the programming module according to an embodiment of the present invention may change depending on the type of OS. The programming module according to an embodiment of the present invention may include one or more of the above described elements. Alternatively some of the above described elements may be omitted from the programming module. Alternatively the programming module may further include additional elements. The operations performed by the programming module or other elements according to an embodiment of the present invention may be processed in a sequential method a parallel method a repetitive method or a heuristic method. Also some of the operations may be omitted or other operations may be added to the operations.

The electronic device performs data communication through a cellular communication network at step S. Next the electronic device determines whether the service type of the current data communication matches a predetermined service type at step S.

Examples of the predetermined data type include streaming service of movie or music Internet phone service such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and packet service for transmitting a packet greater than or equal to a predetermined size during a predetermined period.

The electronic device analyzes the header of the packet to determine whether the service type of current data is VoIP. The electronic device may also check the size of the data packet to be communicated before actually communicating the data packet.

If it is determined at step S that the service type of the current data communication matches the predetermined service type the electronic device attempts to access the AP of which transmission power is greater than or equal to a predetermined value at step S. Then the electronic device performs communication through the WLAN of the AR. For example the electronic device may transmit and receive data packets through the WLAN instead of the cellular communication network.

The Wi Fi WLAN APs broadcast beacon frames including Service Set Identifier SSID and Media Access Control MAC address periodically and the mobile station e.g. electronic device selects an AP to determine the subnet to which it belongs.

The electronic device performs data communication through a cellular communication network at step S.

The electronic device checks the service type of the current data communication at step S. The electronic device determines whether the service type of the current data communication matches one of the predetermined service types e.g. streaming service VoIP service and data packet service for transmitting a packet greater than or equal to a predetermined size at step S.

If the service type of the current data communication matches one of the predetermined service types the electronic device activates a WLAN module at step S. If the WLAN module is activated it receives beacon frames transmitted by APs and measures the received signal strengths of the beacon frames. The electronic device receives at least one AP and measures the received signal strength of the beacon signal transmitted by the at least one AP.

At step S the electronic device determines whether there is any AP for which its beacon signal was received with a signal strength greater than or equal to a first threshold value.

If there is no AP for which its beacon signal was received with a signal strength greater than or equal to the first threshold value the electronic device continues the data communication through the cellular communication network.

Otherwise if there is any AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to the first threshold value the electronic device performs data communication through the corresponding AP i.e. the WLAN of the AP at step S. According to an embodiment of the present invention if the number of APs for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to the first threshold value the electronic device performs data communication through the WLAN of the AP having the greatest received signal strength or the WLAN of the AP selected by the user among the APs of which received signal strengths are greater than or equal to the first threshold value.

Next the electronic device determines whether the received signal strength of the currently connected AP maintains a value greater than or equal to a second threshold value at step S.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the second threshold value is changed according to the channel state of the cellular communication network. For example the second threshold value for the case where the channel state between the electronic device and the cellular communication network is good may be set to a value greater than the second threshold value for the case where the channel state between the electronic device and the cellular communication network is bad.

The electronic device for performing a type of data communication may use the WLAN rather than the cellular communication network to a maximum extent as possible. For example When the size of a data packet to be received is large it is preferred to receive the data packet through the WLAN rather than the more expensive cellular communication network to reduce communication costs.

Although it is described above that the second threshold value is changed according to the channel state between the electronic device and the cellular communication network the present invention is not limited thereto but may change the first threshold value in the same principle.

Returning to step S if the received signal strength of the currently connected AP maintains the value greater than or equal to the second threshold value the electronic device continues the data communication through the WLAN.

Otherwise if the received signal strength of the currently connected AP does not maintain the value greater than or equal to the second threshold value the electronic device performs data communication through the cellular communication network at step S.

The electronic device checks the AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold value at step S. For example the electronic device may check at least one AP for which its received signal strength is greater than or equal to the threshold value.

At step S the electronic device determines whether the AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to the threshold value is a reliable AP. The reliable AP may be the AP pre registered by the user. According to an embodiment of the present invention the user may sort the APs installed in a specific area into a reliable AP group. The electronic device may also sort certain APs into the reliable AP group automatically based on log based connection times or AP locations checked through the Location Based Service LBS .

If the AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to the threshold value is a reliable AP at step S the electronic device connects to the corresponding AP automatically at step S. For example if the radio channel state of the reliable AP preregistered by the user is good the electronic device connects to the AP automatically without an extra procedure.

Otherwise if the AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to the threshold value is not a reliable AP at step S the electronic device inquires of the user whether to connect to the corresponding AP at step S. For example the electronic may inquire of the user whether to allow a connection to the found AP so as to switch the data communication from the cellular communication network to the WLAN through a User Interface UI .

The electronic device determines whether a user command allowing for the connection is received at step S. If the user command allowing for the connection is received the electronic device connects to the corresponding AP at step S.

Otherwise if no user command allowing for the connection is received the electronic device maintains the data communication through the cellular communication network at step S.

The cellular base station provides the electronic device with a radio communication service. The cellular base station exchanges control information and data with the electronic device through a radio channel established therebetween. According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular base station provides at least one of the Second Generation 2G Third Generation 3G Fourth Generation 4G or Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Fifth Generation 5G and Wireless Broadband WiBro services without limitation thereto.

The AP and AP provide the electronic device with mobile communication service. An AP is a node forming a WLAN through wireless connection with the electronic device and may connect the electronic device to the Internet.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device communicates with the cellular base station . The user may want to search for an AP and if found establish a WLAN connection to the AP for higher speed communication. However if the WLAN module is always in the on state unnecessary power drain of the electronic device results.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device is configured to activate the WLAN module for communication only when a predetermined condition is satisfied.

As described above the electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention activates the WLAN module to discover an AP only for at least one of predetermined service types including the streaming service VoIP service and packet data service for transmitting a packet greater than or equal to a predetermined size. In the case that there is any AP for which its beacon signal is received with a signal strength greater than or equal to a predetermined value among the found APs the electronic device switches the communication from the cellular communication network to the WLAN.

The communication network and apparatus of the present invention restricts the use the WLAN to predetermined situations so as to increase the battery life span of the electronic device while minimizing the use of the more expensive cellular communication network resulting in reduced communication costs.

While the embodiment of the present invention has been described in the detailed description of the present invention the present invention may be modified in various forms without departing from the scope of the present invention. Thus the scope of the present invention shall not be determined merely based on the described embodiments but rather determined based on the accompanying claims and the equivalents thereto.

