---

title: Wound dressings comprising a plurality of liquid-expandable articles
abstract: Provided herein are self-expanding wound dressings that include a first outer layer, a second outer layer, and a liquid-expandable layer disposed between the first outer layer and the second outer layer, wherein the liquid-expandable layer includes a plurality of liquid-expandable articles retained by a substrate, wherein the plurality of liquid-expandable articles expand to form expanded articles upon contact with a liquid. Also provided is a method of treating an individual having a bleeding wound, the method including applying a self-expanding wound dressing to the wound. Also provided are methods of manufacturing a wound dressing, the methods including forming an absorbent material into a plurality of liquid-expandable articles, coupling the plurality of liquid-expandable articles to a substrate to form a liquid-expandable layer, and positioning the liquid-expandable layer between a first outer layer and a second outer layer to form the wound dressing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09623223&OS=09623223&RS=09623223
owner: REVMEDX, Inc.
number: 09623223
owner_city: Wilsonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140124
---
The present application is a Continuation In Part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 398 671 filed Feb. 16 2012 entitled WOUND STASIS DRESSING FOR LARGE SURFACE WOUNDS which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 525 036 filed Aug. 18 2011 entitled Wound Stasis Dressing for Large Surface Wounds and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 443 520 filed Feb. 16 2011 entitled Wound Stasis Dressing for Large Surface Wounds the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 756 277 filed Jan. 24 2013 entitled SELF EXPANDING WOUND DRESSINGS the disclosure of which is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with United States government support under Contract No. W911NF 11 C 0038. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to methods compositions and devices for controlling bleeding and treating wounds.

Uncontrolled external hemorrhage is the leading cause of death on the battlefield and the second leading cause of death in civilian trauma. At the point of injury every drop of blood is precious and cannot be replaced until the casualty reaches the next echelon of care. Wounds sustained from IED s blasts and small caliber missiles can cause open and penetrating wounds that are difficult to pack with KERLIX and hemostatic gauzes. Application of sufficient pressure on bleeding vessels to control hemorrhage is a constant challenge in austere environments. Further treatment of a large wound can quickly deplete a medic s available supply of dressings.

Postpartum hemorrhage PPH is a leading cause of maternal mortality in low income countries and responsible for a quarter of all maternal deaths globally. The majority of all deaths related to PPH will occur within 24 hours following delivery and outside of a health care setting where operative measures are not readily available. Nearly all of these deaths could be prevented by swift intervention with a series of non operative and operative measures.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous and are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

With respect to the use of any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

Embodiments herein provide self expanding wound dressings comprising a liquid expandable layer. In general embodiments include methods for treating hemorrhagic injuries. More specifically there is provided a method to effect rapid hemostatic response and control hemorrhage by introducing a self expanding wound dressing into on or around a bleeding cavity. An embodiment also provides a method of preparing or manufacturing such a self expanding wound dressing.

In the following description unless further particularized or otherwise noted the term liquid expandable is intended to refer to any material or substance that expands in occupied volume upon contact with a liquid.

Embodiments provided herein are self expanding wound dressings that include a plurality of layers including a first outer layer a second outer layer and a liquid expandable layer positioned between the first outer layer and the second outer layer. In various embodiments the liquid expandable layer may include a plurality of liquid expandable articles that are retained by a substrate such as a fibrous mesh or a backing layer. In various embodiments the plurality of liquid expandable articles expand to form expanded articles upon contact with a liquid. In various embodiments the first outer layer second outer layer and a liquid expandable layer are formed into elongated sheet.

In some embodiments the self expanding wound dressings disclosed herein may be in the form of an elongated sheet. For such embodiments the sheet may be provided wrapped into a roll or z folded such that a user may access a sufficient length of self expanding wound dressing to cover wounds of varying sizes found on the patient s body. In such embodiments the first outer layer second outer layer and a liquid expandable layer may be laminated to form an elongated sheet. In other embodiments the self expanding wound dressings may have a peripheral boundary of predetermined size and shape sufficient to cover an afflicted wound area.

Also provided is a method of treating an individual having a bleeding wound the method including applying a self expanding wound dressing as disclosed herein to the wound. Additional embodiments are methods of manufacturing a wound dressing the methods including forming an absorbent material into a plurality of liquid expandable articles coupling the plurality of liquid expandable articles to a substrate to form a liquid expandable layer and positioning the liquid expandable layer between a first outer layer and a second outer layer to form the wound dressing.

As illustrated in first outer layer and or second outer layer may be flexible and porous. Exemplary porous materials for first outer layer and second outer layer may include fabrics meshes and or gauzes. For example the first and second outer layers may be made of woven fabrics nonwoven fabrics melt blown webs foams spun bonded webs thermal bonded webs spun laced webs paper and or thermally embossed nonwoven fabrics. More precisely specific non limiting examples of suitable first and second outer layers include woven fabrics knitted fabrics or non woven fabrics of an organic polymer such as cotton polyvinyl alcohol or cellulose paper and perforated films of polyvinyl alcohol. In various embodiments first and second outer layers may be elastic or non elastic. In some embodiments one of first outer layer or second outer layer may be non porous.

In various embodiments first outer layer and second outer layer may be made of the same material. In other embodiments first outer layer and second outer layer may be made of different materials. For example first outer layer may be porous and second outer layer may be non porous. In various embodiments first outer layer may exhibit different fluid absorption properties than second outer layer .

In various embodiments the expanded layer occupies a volume greater than that of liquid expandable layer . In various embodiments the average volume ratio of the expanded layer to the liquid expandable layer is at least 2 in other words the volume of the expanded layer is capable of expanding to at least 2 times the volume of the liquid expandable layer . In other embodiments the average volume ratio of the expanded layer to the liquid expandable layer is at least 4 . In still other embodiments the average volume ratio of the expanded layer to the liquid expandable layer is at least 8 . In yet other embodiments the average volume ratio of the expanded layer to the liquid expandable layers is at least 10 .

In various embodiments liquid expandable layer may be capable of expanding to 80 or greater of its maximum expansion capacity in 60 seconds or less following immersion in water or saline. In other embodiments liquid expandable layer may be capable of expanding to 80 or greater of its maximum expansion capacity in 30 seconds or less following immersion in water or saline. In still other embodiments liquid expandable layer may be capable of expanding to 80 or greater of its maximum expansion capacity in 10 seconds or less following immersion in water or saline. In yet other embodiments liquid expandable layer may be capable of expanding to 80 or greater of its maximum expansion capacity in 5 seconds or less following immersion in water or saline. In certain environments in use liquid expandable layer may be unable to reach its maximum expansion capacity as it may be constrained in some manner such as by the dimensions of the wound.

In various embodiments the liquid expandable layer may be uniformly distributed throughout self expanding wound dressing . In other embodiments the liquid expandable layer may be asymmetrically distributed throughout self expanding wound dressing . In this way segments of self expanding wound dressing may exhibit an ability to self expand upon contact with a liquid while other segments of the dressing may not.

In various embodiments liquid expandable layer may include an absorbent material including but not limited to a sponge or fibrous material. In various embodiments the absorbent material may include a polysaccharide such as but not limited to cellulose starch chitin or chitosan. In some embodiments liquid expandable layer may include regenerated cellulose sponge. In other embodiments the absorbent material may include synthetic sponges such as but not limited to various polyvinyl alcohol PVA polymers and derivatives thereof having desirable physical and mechanical properties. In various embodiments liquid expandable layer may be biodegradable and or bioabsorbable.

In various embodiments the absorbent material may form a contiguous sheet. In other embodiments the absorbent material may include a plurality of distinct articles that move relatively independent of one another.

In various embodiments liquid expandable layer may include a compressed material. As used herein the term compressed material refers to a material that has a first size dimension or form factor in an non compressed state and has a second reduced size dimension or form factor in a compressed state. In various embodiments the compressed material may remain in essentially a compressed state indefinitely until hydrated. For these embodiments and without being limited to any particular theory the compressed material when hydrated may rapidly expand in an effort to assume its pre compression dimensions. In this way the compressed material may store additional mechanical energy in a compressed state as compared to the non compressed state that is released when exposed to a liquid thus causing liquid expandable layer to quickly expand. In various embodiments the absorbent material may be compressed by heat compression or any other suitable compression method known in the art.

In various embodiments self expanding wound dressing may be sufficiently flexible to insert and pack into wounds. Accordingly liquid expandable layer may be adapted to be soft and flexible. In embodiments where the compressed material of liquid expandable layer includes a contiguous sheet the sheet may be mechanically softened to make it more flexible. In some embodiments one or more regions of the sheet may be treated with repeated bending or flexing to reduce mechanical stiffness. In other embodiments the sheet may be subjected to creping or microcreping to impart stretchability and conformability to the layer. Additional methods may include microcorrugation and embossing. In other embodiments the sheet may be prefolded so that it flexes along predetermined folds placed according to the product application. Another treatment for providing flexibility to liquid expandable layer is to perforate the sheet with a series of perforations along certain lines or areas.

Yet another embodiment provides random or patterned holes into or through the sheet. Still another embodiment provides for the sheet to be incised so that it flexes along the incision or incisions with the incision having a predetermined depth pattern and location. In various embodiments excising or notching the sheet may allow flexibility along the excisions or removed material areas. The sheet also may be fabricated with various thicknesses such as waffling with alternate lines of thick and thin portions.

In various embodiments self expanding wound dressing may include at least 3 liquid expandable articles such as about 10 50 100 or even more liquid expandable articles. In various embodiments the occupied volume of each liquid expandable article prior to expansion may be from 0.7 mmto 7000 mm such as from about 500 mmto 5000 mm. In some embodiments the volume of each liquid expandable article may be greater than 1 mmprior to expansion such as about 5 mm about 10 mm about 50 mm or about 100 mm or even greater. In various embodiments liquid expandable articles may all be uniform in size or may include a mixture of sizes.

In various embodiments liquid expandable articles may have one or more predetermined shapes based on adjustments to the length width diameter or cross sectional shape. Without being limited by theory the shape size and or pattern of liquid expandable articles may influence the pliability of self expanding wound dressing as well as the ability of the self expanding wound dressing to fit into expand fill partially fill and conform to a wound cavity. In addition the shape may assist expanded articles in retaining a desired position in the wound cavity. In liquid expandable articles are depicted as a cylindrical shape. This notwithstanding the predetermined shape of liquid expandable articles may include other articles with round triangular square rectangular hexagonal conical or octagonal cross sections. In various embodiments predetermined shapes having multiple projections e.g. a star may be used. In other embodiments self expanding wound dressing may include liquid expandable articles with haphazard random irregular or jagged shapes. In various embodiments self expanding wound dressing may include liquid expandable articles of two or more predetermined shapes. In other embodiments self expanding wound dressing may include liquid expandable articles that have a mixture of predetermined shapes and or irregular shapes.

In various embodiments the predetermined shape of liquid expandable articles may define any shape having first major outer surface and a second major outer surface. For such embodiments the first major outer surface and the second major outer surface may be substantially parallel to one another. In various embodiments the average distance between the outer surfaces may be from 0.5 mm to 20 mm such from 1 mm to 10 mm or from 1 mm to 5 mm. In various embodiments such as the illustrated embodiment liquid expandable articles may be substantially in the form of a disk or cylinder. For such embodiments the average diameter of the first major outer surface and the second major outer surface may be from 1 mm to 20 mm such from 5 mm to 10 mm. In various embodiments self expanding wound dressing may include liquid expandable articles having the same average diameter or a mixture of liquid expandable articles having different average diameters.

In various embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be retained by a substrate to restrict the liquid expandable articles from moving freely throughout the space between the outer layers. In such embodiments the liquid expandable layer may include a substrate such as a fibrous web mesh fabric or other material intended to limit movement of the liquid expandable articles. illustrate side views of another example of a self expanding wound dressing wherein the liquid expandable layer includes a plurality of liquid expandable articles that are spatially constrained by a web material shown prior to expansion and following expansion in accordance with various embodiments. As can be seen in layer includes a web material . In various embodiments liquid expandable articles may be physically trapped spatially constrained or immobilized by web material . In some embodiments the outer surfaces of the liquid expandable articles may be barbed or roughened so that the liquid expandable articles will catch on some of the fibers in web material affording a degree of mechanical bonding to web material . In some embodiments the mechanical bonding may be sufficient to prevent the liquid expandable articles from moving freely throughout the space between the outer layers but not so great that the flexibility of the self expanding wound dressing is detrimentally affected. In various embodiments woven or non woven textile structures may be used for web material . Exemplary materials may include meshes gauzes fabrics nonwoven fabrics melt blown webs spun bonded webs thermal bonded webs spun laced webs and or undercast padding. In some embodiments web material may be treated to increase friction and entrapment of liquid expandable articles such as with a slip resistant coating or surface roughening.

In various other embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be connected to a substrate to limit their movement. In such embodiments the substrate may comprise a backing layer or sheet. illustrate side views of another example of a self expanding wound dressing wherein the liquid expandable layer includes a plurality of liquid expandable articles that are connected to a backing layer shown prior to expansion and following expansion of the liquid expandable articles in accordance with various embodiments. In various embodiments liquid expandable articles may be arranged on a backing layer in a predetermined pattern or array. As used herein the term predetermined pattern refers to a designed arrangement. In various embodiments the designed arrangement is formed by selecting positioning and or orientation of the liquid expandable articles. The term predetermined pattern includes any intentionally formed pattern and does not include a heterogeneously random arrangement an inconsistently formed arrangement or an unpredictable arrangement.

In various embodiments the liquid expandable articles may form a 3 dimensional array on top of backing material . The attachment points of the liquid expandable articles may in an embodiment be substantially coplanar with each other. In some embodiments liquid expandable articles may be disposed on one side of the backing layer whereas in other embodiments liquid expandable articles may be disposed on both sides of backing layer .

In various embodiments the predetermined pattern may define one or more regions without any liquid expandable articles. Theses article free regions may be used as fold lines that allow the self expanding wound dressing to be folded at a particular location on the dressing. As shown in some embodiments may include one or more fold lines which may increase the flexibility of the self expanding wound dressing or which may help the self expanding wound dressing conform to a particular would size or shape or fit into a desired packaging. In additional embodiments as shown in one or more article free regions may be used as cut lines that function to identify where a user may cut the dressing without being impeded by liquid expandable articles.

In various embodiments the predetermined pattern may include the plurality of the liquid expandable articles being arranged in a substantially parallel orientation. In one embodiment the predetermined pattern may include the plurality of liquid expandable articles being arranged in substantially linear orientation. In other embodiments the predetermined pattern may include the plurality of the liquid expandable articles being arranged in a curved orientation. In other embodiments the predetermined pattern includes the plurality of the liquid expandable articles being arranged in a staggered orientation. In one embodiment the predetermined pattern is a complex predetermined pattern for example a non linear pattern a curved pattern or a geometric pattern such as a square a rectangle a circle an oval or other suitable shape .

In some embodiments the backing layer and the liquid expandable articles may be constructed from different materials. In other embodiments the backing layer and the liquid expandable articles may be constructed from the same material.

In various embodiments the backing layer may be a porous or non porous material. Exemplary non porous materials may include polyurethane polyethylene and or silicone films or sheets. Exemplary porous materials may include fabrics meshes and or gauzes. For example in some embodiments a porous backing material may be made of fabrics nonwoven fabrics melt blown webs foams spun bonded webs thermal bonded webs spun laced webs paper and or thermally embossed nonwoven fabrics. More precisely examples of the substrate may be woven fabrics knitted fabrics or non woven fabrics of an organic polymer such as cotton polyvinyl alcohol or cellulose paper and perforated films of polyvinyl alcohol. In various embodiments the backing layer may be elastic or non elastic.

In various embodiments instead of being connected to a backing layer the liquid expandable articles may be connected to one or both of the outer layers to limit movement of the liquid expandable articles. illustrate side views of another example of a self expanding wound dressing wherein the liquid expandable layer includes a plurality of liquid expandable articles that are connected to the first outer layer shown prior to expansion and following expansion of the liquid expandable articles in accordance with various embodiments. In the illustrated embodiment liquid expandable articles are arranged on first outer layer in a predetermined pattern though in alternate embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be disposed on the second outer layer or both outer layers. In various embodiments the liquid expandable articles may form a 3 dimensional array on top of the outer layer.

In various embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be connected to the backing material or outer layers with an adhesive. Exemplary adhesives include cyanoacrylates epoxies light cure adhesives silicones urethanes hydro gels acrylics silicone gels silicone PSA and hydrocolloids. In other embodiments other mechanisms may be used to secure the liquid expandable articles to the backing material or outer layers such as molding stitching etc. In some embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be heat bonded to the backing material or outer layers. In such embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be bonded to the backing material using a melted polypropylene layer.

In another embodiment a unitary construct having a backing component and a plurality of liquid expandable articles protrusions may be provided. In such an embodiment the two components of the construct may be made of the same material but are designed for different purposes. For example the backing component may provide support for the liquid expandable protrusions. However because the backing component is made from the same material as the liquid expandable protrusions the backing component may also undergo expansion in response to liquid contact. In one embodiment the backing component may be compressed to a lesser degree than the protrusions such as providing a compression ratio of from 2 1 to 5 1 protrusions backing . In some embodiments the backing may be formed in a relatively thin layer so as to provide support but retain flexibility. In specific embodiments a suitable thickness of the backing prior to liquid contact may be approximately 1 5 mm for example about 4 mm or about 2 mm. In various embodiments the liquid expandable protrusions may be configured to extend into various smaller areas of a wound. The liquid expandable protrusions may be formed in any suitable number and may have a variety of shapes and sizes as discussed elsewhere in this disclosure. In an embodiment the construct may be formed by molding or etching such as laser etching a shaped element.

In various embodiments self expanding wound dressings described herein may further include one or more therapeutic agents. For example in some embodiments the self expanding wound dressing may be impregnated suffused or coated with one or more therapeutic agents and or the one or more therapeutic agents may be dispersed throughout the self expanding wound dressing. In some embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents may be provided only on the liquid expandable articles only on an outer layer or layers or a combination of both. In various embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents may be selected from the group consisting of analgesics steroids antihistamines anesthetics bactericides disinfectants fungicides vasoconstrictors chemotherapeutic drugs antibiotics keratolytics cauterizing agents antiviral drugs epidermal growth factor fibroblast growth factors transforming growth factors glycoproteins fibrinogen fibrin humectants preservatives lymphokines cytokines odor controlling materials vitamins and clotting factors.

In various embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents may include hemostatic agent s . For example the one or more therapeutic agents may include chitosan or a derivative of chitosan. In other embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents may include kaolin. In other embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents may be selected from the group consisting of diatomaceous earth silica clays minerals attapulgite bentonite zeolite and bioactive glasses.

In various embodiments the one or more therapeutic agents may include an inorganic salt. Examples of an inorganic salt include but are not limited to a divalent ion selected from the group consisting of zinc copper magnesium calcium and nickel as well as CaO CaCl AgNO Ca NO Mg NO Zn NO NHNO AgCl AgO zinc acetate magnesium acetate calcium citrate zinc citrate magnesium citrate magnesium chloride magnesium bromide zinc chloride zinc bromide calcium bromide calcium acetate and calcium phosphate.

In various embodiments the self expanding wound dressing may include one or more markers for identifying the location of the dressing in a wound and or facilitating removal of the dressing from the wound. In such embodiments the marker may be coupled to the first and or second outer layers. In other embodiments the marker may be coupled to the liquid expandable articles. In some embodiments the marker may include a radio frequency identification RFID tag. In other embodiments the marker may include a radiopaque material. For example the marker may include a radiopaque filament bead ball sphere wire or strip. In other examples the marker may include a barium sulfate infused polymer such as polypropylene. In still other examples at least a portion of the self expanding wound dressing may be suffused with a radiopaque material. In yet another example at least a portion of the self expanding wound dressing may be coated with a radiopaque material.

Also provided herein are methods for effecting rapid hemostatic response and hemorrhage control by applying a self expanding wound dressing to a bleeding wound. For example a self expanding wound dressing may be delivered into a wound cavity where the liquid expandable layer may contact blood within the cavity and subsequently expand to form an expanded layer.

In various embodiments applying a self expanding wound dressing to a wound may include applying the self expanding wound dressing by hand. In some embodiments the self expanding wound dressing may be applied to a wound using a securing adhesive. In another embodiment the self expanding wound dressing may be wrapped around a wound site such as around an arm leg torso etc.

In various embodiments applying a self expanding wound dressing to a wound may include applying the self expanding wound dressing using an applicator. For example the applicator may include a body a tip and a delivery mechanism. The body defines a storage chamber for the self expanding wound dressing and has an opening for deploying the self expanding wound dressing from the storage chamber. A tip may cover the opening and has a closed state wherein the tip maintains the self expanding wound dressing in the storage chamber and an open state wherein the self expanding wound dressing can be deployed through the opening and the tip.

Exemplary wounds often arise from but are not limited to traumatic accidents projectiles from weapons or improvised explosive devices which may create large soft tissue wounds in the calf thigh buttocks or shoulder that result in severe bleeding. Such wounds may be associated with an arterial puncture a venous puncture an arterial laceration and or a venous laceration. Each wound can have a unique size and or shape. Often the extent of the tissue damage cannot be determined until emergent care can be provided. The use of the self expanding wound dressings disclosed herein may allow for the treatment of several different wound types.

A method of preparing a self expanding wound dressing in accordance with various embodiments is also provided. In some embodiments a liquid expandable material may be prepared by compressing an absorbent material to form a compressed absorbent material. This may be accomplished for example using conventional mechanical compression techniques well known to those skilled in the art. In other embodiments compressing the absorbent material into a liquid expandable material may include freeze drying the absorbent material. Exemplary absorbent materials include sponges. In some embodiments the liquid expandable layer may be adapted to be flexible in accordance with various methods described above.

In other embodiments the liquid expandable layer may be adapted to be flexible by forming the compressed absorbent material into a plurality of liquid expandable articles. This may include forming the compressed absorbent material into desirable shapes and sizes. For such embodiments the liquid expandable material may be cut using for example a die and press. The absorbent material may also be molded directly into desired shapes and sizes. In various embodiments the absorbent material may be formed into a plurality of liquid expandable articles by extrusion pelletization briquetting tabletting or other methods familiar to those skilled in the art. Alternatively the absorbent material may be mechanically crushed into irregular shaped lumps with desirable size ranges to be separated out by a classifier.

In various embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be arranged into a predetermined pattern and connected to a backing material or outer layer of the dressing. In other embodiments the liquid expandable articles may be co formed such as co molded with the backing material. In some embodiments connecting liquid expandable articles to a backing material may include using an adhesive. Exemplary adhesives include cyanoacrylates epoxies light cure adhesives silicones urethanes hydrogels acrylics silicone gels silicone PSA and hydrocolloids. In another embodiment connecting liquid expandable articles to a backing material may include heat bonding. For such embodiments liquid expandable articles may be heat bonded using a heat sealable material such as polypropylene.

In various embodiments the self expanding wound dressing may be combined with one or more therapeutic agents by impregnating suffusing coating or dispersing the one or more therapeutic agents on or throughout the absorbent material. In an embodiment the therapeutic agent may be sprayed onto the absorbent material. In another embodiment the absorbent material may be soaked in a therapeutic agent solution.

Embodiments also provide a composition that includes a self expanding wound dressing and a liquid expandable layer that is configured to induce hemostasis when contacted with blood and that may be applied to many types of wounds. In various embodiments the liquid expandable layer may possess an ability upon contact with blood to rapidly expand to form a pliable shapeable and conformable mass. Without limiting the scope of the disclosure this mass may exert mechanical pressure on the surface of the wound as well as interact with blood components to ultimately facilitate the formation of a fluid arresting coagulum within the wound cavity. In various embodiments the combination of mechanical pressure and enhanced clotting may make the composition able to curtail bleeding without the application of external compression. In other embodiments liquid expandable layer may be capable of expanding through a swelling mechanism. While it is noted above that external compression is not necessary in some embodiments external compression may be used in conjunction with the self expanding wound dressing. Such external compression may be provided by an elastic backing material or by a separate elastic or compression material device.

Without limiting the scope of the disclosure the devices and compositions disclosed herein may be advantageous for several reasons. In various embodiments the liquid expandable dressings disclosed herein have the ability to quickly expand into an expanded dressing. This allows the expanded dressing to quickly fill the wound cavity and provide a rapid hemostatic effect. Additional advantages include improved positioning within the wound improved tissue apposition and better conformation to intricate wound contours. The soft pliable nature of the dressing in connection with spring like characteristics permits the expanded dressing to provide a gentle outward pressure within the wound cavity without the need to apply excessive pressure that can compromise perfusion to local tissues. Because the expanded articles conform to the wound cavity pressure is exerted multi directionally to address all bleeding points. The ability to exert outward pressure against and closely conforming to surrounding tissue surfaces helps the expanded dressing to maintain positioning within the wound cavity in the face of high flow arterial bleeding and deformation during transport of the injured person maximize the contact and application of material at the sources of bleeding and ensure constant and gentle yet effective compression within the wound cavity without creating harmful pressure points .

This Example provides an exemplary method of making a self expanding would dressing in accordance with various embodiments. A plurality of 40 mm thick regenerated cellulose sponge blocks were compressed to a compressed thickness of approximately 4 mm and die cut into 9.8 mm disks sponge disks . A total of 138 sponge disks were arranged in a staggered pattern end to end on a 7.6 cm 91.4 cm viscose polyester spunlace fabric backing layer as shown in . The sponge disks were bonded to the backing layer using a hydraulic press with a heated top platen. Two outer layers 7.6 cm 91.4 cm viscose polyester spunlace fabric were placed above and below the backing layer one outer layer on each side of the backing layer . The fabric layers top outer layer backing layer and bottom outer layer were then heat sealed together using a bag heat sealer to complete the dressing assembly.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

