---

title: Power converter circuits including high electron mobility transistors for switching and rectification
abstract: A power converter circuit includes a storage component, a rectifier component comprising a first field effect transistor and having first and second bias states, and a switch including a second field effect transistor having first and second operational states. The first and second field effect transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMTs).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467038&OS=09467038&RS=09467038
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09467038
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140929
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 837 092 filed Jul. 15 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Office of Naval Research Contract No. 05 C 0226. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to power conversion and more particularly to power converter circuits that operate at relatively high frequencies and relatively high voltages.

Power converter circuits may be used to convey power from a source such as a battery power supply electrical power grid etc. to a load such as any device apparatus or component that runs on electricity preferably with as little loss as possible. Generally a power converter circuit provides an output voltage that has a different level than the input voltage. One type of power converter circuit is a Direct Current to Direct Current DC to DC circuit. DC to DC power converters typically operate by temporarily storing input energy from a power source and then releasing that energy to an output load at a different voltage level. Switched mode DC to DC converter circuits are generally more power efficient than linear voltage regulators which dissipate unwanted power as heat. It is generally desirable to operate switched mode power converter circuits at higher frequencies as the component size and weight of such circuits can be reduced by for example eliminating low frequency transformers.

In some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter a power converter circuit includes a storage component a rectifier component comprising a first field effect transistor and having first and second bias states and a switch including a second field effect transistor having first and second operational states. The first and second field effect transistors are High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMTs .

In other embodiments energy from a power source is stored in the storage component when the switch is configured in the first operational state and the rectifier component is in the first bias state and the stored energy in the storage component is released to a load when the switch is configured in the second operational state and the rectifier component is in the second bias state.

In still other embodiments the rectifier component further includes a semiconductor diode having a cathode connected to a source node of the first field effect transistor and an anode connected to a gate node of the first field effect transistor.

In still other embodiments the first HEMT includes at least one heterojunction as a conducting channel.

In still other embodiments the second HEMT includes at least one heterojunction as a conducting channel.

In still other embodiments the power converter circuit is a Direct Current to Direct Current DC to DC power converter circuit and the switch is operable in a hard switched mode.

In still other embodiments the power converter circuit is a Direct Current to Direct Current DC to DC power converter and the switch is operable in a resonant switched mode.

In still other embodiments the power converter circuit is a Direct Current to Direct Current DC to DC power converter circuit and the storage component the rectifier and the switch are configured in a Buck configuration a Boost configuration a Buck Boost configuration a Cuk configuration a Single Ended Primary Inductor Converter SEPIC configuration or a Zeta configuration.

In still other embodiments the magnetic field storage component includes an inductor and or a transformer.

In further embodiments of the present inventive subject matter a power converter circuit has a switching frequency in a range of about 10 MHz 100 MHz when operating in a resonance switched operational mode and having an efficiency of at least about 95 .

In other embodiments of the present inventive subject matter a power converter circuit has a switching frequency in a range of about 1 MHz 10 MHz when operating in a hard switched operational mode and having an efficiency of at least about 95 .

Other power converter circuits according to embodiments of the inventive subject matter will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional power converter circuits be included within this description be within the scope of the present inventive subject matter and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the description of the figures.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Some embodiments of the invention may be described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes.

Some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter may arise from the realization that the operating frequency of relatively high voltage power converter circuits may be increased through the use of High Electron Mobility Transistors HEMTs which are also known as modulation doped field effect transistors MODFETs to provide switching and or rectification functionality. In some embodiments the HEMTs may be embodied as GaN devices.

In a HEMT device a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG may be formed at the heterojunction of two semiconductor materials with different bandgap energies. The smaller bandgap material may have a higher electron affinity than the wider bandgap material. The 2DEG is an accumulation layer in the undoped unintentionally doped smaller bandgap material and can contain a relatively high sheet electron concentration for example in excess of 10carriers cm. Additionally electrons that originate in the wider bandgap semiconductor may transfer to the 2DEG allowing a relatively high electron mobility due to reduced ionized impurity scattering. This combination of relatively high carrier concentration and relatively high carrier mobility can give the HEMT a relatively large transconductance and may provide a performance advantage over metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs for high frequency applications.

High electron mobility transistors fabricated in the gallium nitride aluminum gallium nitride GaN AlGaN material system can generate large amounts of Radio Frequency RF power due to a combination of material characteristics such as relatively high breakdown fields relatively wide bandgaps relatively large conduction band offset and or relatively high saturated electron drift velocity. A major portion of the electrons in the 2DEG may be attributed to polarization in the AlGaN.

HEMTs in the GaN AlGaN system have already been demonstrated. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 987 and 5 296 395 describe AlGaN GaN HEMT structures and methods of manufacture. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 to Sheppard et al. which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference herein describes a HEMT device having a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate an aluminum nitride buffer layer on the substrate an insulating gallium nitride layer on the buffer layer an aluminum gallium nitride barrier layer on the gallium nitride layer and a passivation layer on the aluminum gallium nitride active structure. Moreover U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2005 0170574 to Sheppard et al. which is also commonly assigned and incorporated by reference herein describes a HEMT device including a protective layer and or a low damage recess fabrication technique which may reduce damage to the semiconductor in the gate region of the transistor that may occur during an anneal of ohmic contacts of the device.

Referring now to a power converter circuit according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter comprises a power supply a converter circuit and a load which are connected as shown. The power supply may be an Alternating Current AC or a Direct Current DC power supply. As shown in the converter circuit comprises a switch a rectifier component and a storage component . The load may be any apparatus or device that receives the output voltage current generated by the converter circuit responsive to an input voltage current received from the power supply . According to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter the switch comprises at least one HEMT and the rectifier component comprises at least one HEMT. In some embodiments the HEMTs used in the switch and rectifier component may be GaN devices. Each of the HEMTs may comprise at least one heterojunction as a conducting channel. In accordance with various embodiments of the present inventive subject matter the storage component may comprise a magnetic field storage component and or an electric field storage component. In some embodiments the magnetic field storage component comprises an inductor and or transformer. In further embodiments the electric field storage component comprises a capacitor.

Operations of the power converter circuit according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter will now be described. The switch may be configured in at least two operational states such as an open or closed state on or off state etc. The rectifier component may be biased in at least two operational states such as forward or reverse biased. When the switch is in a first operational state the rectifier component is in a first bias state and energy from the power supply is stored in the storage component . When the switch transitions to the second operational state the rectifier component is in a second bias state and the energy stored in the storage component is released to the load . The voltage current delivered to the load may be regulated based on the duty cycle of the switch which is a fraction of time that the switch is in one of its operational states.

The converter circuit may in some embodiments comprise a DC to DC power converter circuit and may be configured to operate for example in a hard switched mode or a resonant switched mode. In hard switched mode the switch switches between operational states at relatively high voltages and or currents. In contrast the switch may be configured to operate in a resonant switched mode through use of an inductance capacitance LC circuit that shapes the voltage current applied to the switch so that the switch transitions between operational states when the voltage and or the current is near zero. The DC to DC power converter circuit may be configured in for example but not limited to a Buck configuration a Boost configuration a Buck Boost configuration a Cuk configuration a Single Ended Primary Inductor Converter SEPIC configuration or a Zeta configuration.

In some embodiments the depletion mode semiconductor may comprise a HEMT device. The depletion mode semiconductor may comprise any bidirectional conducting and forward blocking depletion mode device such as for example a JFET using any semiconductor device a GaN HEMT a MESFET a SiC MESFET and or MOSFET in any semiconductor device among others. The HEMT may comprise at least one heterojunction as a conducting channel. In some embodiments the depletion mode semiconductor may include GaN AlGaAs and or GaAs among other materials. The depletion mode semiconductor may comprise a source node a gate node and or a drain node .

The rectifier circuit may comprise a hot carrier semiconductor diode that includes a cathode and an anode . In some embodiments a hot carrier diode may be characterized by a low forward voltage drop and a very fast switching action and may be referred to as a majority carrier semiconductor. The cathode may be connected to a source node of the depletion mode semiconductor and the anode may be connected to a gate node of the depletion mode semiconductor . In some embodiments the node defined by the connection between the gate node of the depletion mode semiconductor and the anode of the hot carrier semiconductor diode may be connected to the rectifier anode .

In some embodiments the hot carrier semiconductor diode may comprise a Schottky diode. The hot carrier semiconductor may comprise any low voltage majority carrier high speed diode with low forward voltage drop. For example the hot carrier semiconductor may comprise a Schottky junction barrier Schottky JBS etc. in any semiconductor such as for example Si SiC GaN GaAs etc. In some embodiments the hot carrier semiconductor diode comprises a silicon Schottky diode. Thus the rectifier circuit may comprise a HEMT and a silicon Schottky diode used in combination with one another according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter. The HEMT used in the rectifier circuit may be embodied as a GaN device. In this manner a high voltage high speed rectifier with low forward voltage drop may be realized via a combination including a high voltage high speed normally on field effect transistor and a low voltage high speed diode. A rectifier circuit as described herein may be referred to as a cascode rectifier.

In some embodiments the hot carrier semiconductor diode and the depletion mode transistor as discussed above may be integrated into a single device to form an on chip device.

Operations of the rectifier circuit according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter will now be described. The forward bias case where current flows from anode to cathode will be described first. In some embodiments this may correspond to a first half cycle of an AC input signal being applied to the rectifier anode . As the voltage is greater on the anode than the cathode the hot carrier semiconductor diode is forward biased and thus conductive with a small voltage drop. The conducted voltage minus the small voltage drop of the hot carrier semiconductor diode is applied to the source node of the depletion mode semiconductor . As the AC input signal is also applied to the gate node of the depletion mode semiconductor a slight forward bias of the depletion mode semiconductor gate to source junction is realized.

As a result of the forward bias of the depletion mode semiconductor gate to source junction the depletion mode semiconductor becomes conductive from the source node to the drain node . The resulting rectifier anode to rectifier cathode voltage drop may be the hot carrier semiconductor diode voltage drop plus the voltage drop due to the source node to drain node resistance of the depletion mode semiconductor .

The reverse bias case where current flows from the rectifier cathode to the rectifier anode will now be described. In some embodiments this may correspond to a second half cycle of an AC input signal being applied to the rectifier anode . Under static conditions the hot carrier semiconductor diode may be in a blocking or non conducting state. In this regard the voltage at the source node of the depletion mode semiconductor may be floating. When the gate to source voltage drops below a threshold voltage the depletion mode semiconductor may be in a blocking and or non conducting mode as a result of the gate to source junction of the depletion mode semiconductor becoming reverse biased.

When the depletion mode semiconductor is in a non conducting mode the rectifier circuit ceases to conduct. In some embodiments the reverse voltage across the hot carrier semiconductor diode may be limited to the threshold voltage of the depletion mode semiconductor . The resulting rectifier circuit may thus possess the high voltage and low capacitance characteristics of a high voltage depletion mode semiconductor with the switching characteristics of a low voltage high speed hot carrier semiconductor diode . In some embodiments the hot carrier semiconductor diode need only sustain the threshold voltage of the depletion mode semiconductor. In this manner the high speed characteristics of the depletion mode semiconductor may be exploited to form a diode with low forward drop without having to resort to synchronous rectification.

The depletion mode semiconductor may comprise a field effect transistor FET . For example according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter a high voltage low capacitance rectifier circuit may be provided that includes a high speed high voltage normally on FET connected to a rectified signal output node of the rectifier circuit and a high speed low voltage diode having a cathode connected to a source node of the FET and an anode connected to a gate node of the FET . In some embodiments the diode may be a Schottky diode. In other embodiments the diode may be a silicon Schottky diode. In some embodiments the FET comprises a HEMT circuit that incorporates at least one heterojunction as a conducting channel. The FET may comprise a HEMT according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter. The HEMT used in the FET may be embodied as a GaN device.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 506 610 to Callanan et al. which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference herein describes exemplary embodiments of the rectifier circuit of in greater detail.

Exemplary operations of the boost DC to DC power converter circuit will now be described. When the switching transistor J is turned on current through the inductor L increases. When the switching transistor J is turned off the current flowing through the inductor L can no longer flow through the transistor J and flows instead through the diode D and transistor J to charge the capacitor C. Thus energy accumulated in the inductor L while the transistor J is in an on state is transferred to the load when the transistor J transitions to the off state.

The boost DC to DC power converter circuit of with both transistors J and J being GaN HEMTs was simulated using PSPICE. The parameters used during the simulation are shown in . The results show that the use of GaN HEMTs to provide a switching and rectification function in the boost DC to DC power converter circuit may allow operation at very high frequencies e.g. 20 MHz and high power e.g. 100 W with relatively high efficiency. The unique combination of high voltage and high frequency capability due for example to the low capacitance of the switching and rectification components may allow the passive parts volume in such a power converter circuit to be reduced by two orders of magnitude. Thus according to some embodiments of the present inventive subject matter a power converter circuit may be provided using relatively low capacitance switching and rectification components that can operate at relatively high voltages up to approximately 600 V. Moreover the low capacitance of the switching and rectification components may allow the power converter circuit to operate at frequencies in a range of approximately 10 MHz to 100 MHz in a resonance switched operational mode and 1 MHz to 10 MHz in a hard switched operational mode while maintaining an efficiency of at least 95 .

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the inventive subject matter and although specific terms are used they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

