---

title: Systems and methods for analyzing a sample
abstract: The invention generally relates to systems and methods for sample analysis. In certain embodiments, the invention provides systems for analyzing a sample that include an electric source, a vacuum chamber including a conducting member, in which the conducting member is coupled to the electric source, a sample introduction member coupled to the vacuum chamber, and a mass analyzer. The system is configured such that a distal end of the sample introduction member resides within the vacuum chamber and proximate the conducting member, such that an electrical discharge may be produced between the sample introduction member and the conducting member. A neutral gas that has been introduced into the vacuum chamber interacts with the generated discharge, producing ions within the vacuum chamber that are subsequently transferred into the mass analyzer in the vacuum chamber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129786&OS=09129786&RS=09129786
owner: Purdue Research Foundation
number: 09129786
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140616
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 14 058 856 filed Oct. 21 2013 which is a continuation of international patent application number PCT US2012 037987 filed May 15 2012 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 488 244 filed May 20 2011 the content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under CHE0847205 awarded by National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Mass spectrometry is a very sensitive analytical method used for important research and for applications of analytical chemistry such as life science. A mass spectrometer works by using magnetic and electric fields to exert forces on charged particles ions in a vacuum. Therefore a compound must be charged or ionized to be analyzed by a mass spectrometer. Accordingly chemical analysis using mass spectrometry involves ionization of molecules in a sample followed by mass analysis of those ions. Typically an ionization source is used to ionize an analyte at atmospheric pressure or inside a vacuum chamber before mass analysis is performed on the produced ions.

Atmosphere based ionization methods involve producing ions at atmospheric pressure and then subsequently transferring those ions into a vacuum chamber that houses a mass analyzer. The ions are then analyzed by the mass analyzer. Examples of such atmosphere based ionization methods include electrospray ionization Fenn et al. Science 1989 246 64 71 and Fenn et al. Mass Spectrometry Reviews 1990 9 37 70 and atmospheric pressure chemical ionization Carroll et al. Analytical Chemistry 1975 47 2369 2373 . Recently ambient ionization methods including desorption electrospray ionization Takats et al. Science 2004 306 471 473 Takats et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 335 897 direct analysis in real time Cody et al. Analytical Chemistry 2005 77 2297 2302 and others have been developed to generate analyte ions from complex mixtures for mass analysis. A problem with atmosphere based ionization methods is that the ions from an ion source at atmospheric pressure need to be transferred into vacuum through an atmospheric pressure interface for mass analysis. Generally the transfer efficiency is 1 or lower.

Methods have been developed in which the sample is ionized within the vacuum chamber eliminating the need for an ion transfer line. Such methods avoid the ion transfer problems associated with atmosphere ionization methods. Generally for ionization of an analyte in a vacuum a photon or electron source is used to produce a beam of photons or electrons that interacts with the sample in a vacuum chamber. Interaction of the sample with the photons or electrons produces ions that are subsequently analyzed. Exemplary methods include electron impact ionization Nier et al. Review of Scientific Instruments 1947 18 398 411 laser desorption ionization Ronald et al. The Rockefeller University 1989 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 045 694 photo ionization Lossing et al. The Journal of Chemical Physics 1956 25 1031 1034 chemical ionization Harrison et al. Ed. Chemical Ionisation Mass Spectrometry CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1983 or matrix assisted laser desorption ionization Karas et al. Analytical Chemistry 1988 60 2299 2301 and Hillenkamp et al. Analytical Chemistry 1991 63 1193A 1203A . Other methods use neutral molecular or ion beams such as fast atom bombardment ionization Barber et al. Journal of the Chemical Society Chemical Communications 1981 325 327 and secondary ionization mass spectrometry Herzog et al. Physical Review 1949 76 855 856 .

The invention generally relates to sample analysis by mass spectrometry in which a neutral gas as opposed to ions is introduced into a vacuum chamber. In systems and methods of the invention ionization of the neutral gas occurs in the vacuum chamber by interaction of molecules of the neutral gas with an electric discharge produced between a conducting member within the vacuum chamber and a distal end of a sample introduction member within the chamber. The produced ions are subsequently transferred to a mass analyzer for mass analysis. Systems and methods of the invention produce ions within a vacuum chamber without the need for photon or electron sources. Further by producing ions within a vacuum chamber systems and methods of the invention avoid the problems associated with transferring ions from an ion source at atmospheric pressure to a vacuum chamber. In certain embodiments production of the discharge and ions is triggered and synchronized with the sample introduction without additional control by electronics.

In certain aspects the invention provides an electric source a vacuum chamber including a conducting member in which the conducting member is coupled to the electric source a sample introduction member coupled to the vacuum chamber in which a distal end of the sample introduction member resides within the vacuum chamber and proximate the conducting member such that an electrical discharge may be produced between the sample introduction member and the conducting member. The discharge ionizes molecules of a neutral gas introduced into the vacuum chamber and a mass analyzer within the vacuum chamber analyzes the produced ions.

In particular embodiments systems and methods of the invention are accomplished with at least one discontinuous atmospheric interface such that pulses of the neutral gas are introduced into the vacuum chamber. The ionization of the neutral gas may be synchronized with a pressure variation in the vacuum chamber that results from operation of the discontinuous atmospheric interface. Generally the discontinuous atmospheric interface is positioned between the source of the sample and the vacuum chamber. In particular embodiments the system is configured with two discontinuous atmospheric interfaces that are arranged sequentially. Use of the discontinuous atmospheric interface allows for the neutral gas to be pulsed into the vacuum chamber. Additionally the use of the discontinuous atmospheric interface allows for ionization of the neutral gas to be synchronized with a pressure variation generated from opening and closing the discontinuous atmospheric interface.

The discontinuous atmospheric interface may include a valve for controlling entry of gas into the mass analyzer such that the gas is transferred into the mass analyzer in a discontinuous mode. Any valve known in the art may be used. Exemplary valves include a pinch valve a thin plate shutter valve leak valve and a needle valve. The atmospheric pressure interface may further include a tube in which an exterior portion of the tube is aligned with the valve.

In particular embodiments the discontinuous atmospheric pressure interface includes a valve a tube configured such that an exterior portion of the tube is aligned with the valve and a first capillary inserted into a first end of the tube and a second capillary inserted into a second end of the tube in which neither the first capillary nor the second capillary overlap with a portion of the tube that is in alignment with the valve.

The sample introduction member may be any device known in the art for directing or flowing gas and can be made of any material. In certain embodiments the sample introduction member is a metal capillary tube. The conducting member may be any device known in the art that can conduct electricity. In certain embodiments the conducting member is a metal mesh.

Any mass analyzer known in the art may be used with systems of the invention. Exemplary mass analyzers include a quadrupole ion trap a rectalinear ion trap a cylindrical ion trap a ion cyclotron resonance trap or an orbitrap. The mass analyzer may be for a mass spectrometer or a handheld mass spectrometer.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for analyzing a sample that involves introducing a neutral gas into a vacuum chamber via a sample introduction member in which the vacuum chamber includes a conducting member producing ions within the vacuum chamber by interaction of molecules of the gas with an electrical discharge generated between a distal end of the sample introduction member and the conducting member and analyzing the ions.

In certain embodiments the neutral gas is discontinuously introduced into the vacuum chamber. Discontinuously introducing the gas into the chamber may involve opening a valve connected to the sample introduction member in which opening of the valve allows for transfer of the neutral gas substantially at atmospheric pressure to the vacuum chamber at reduced pressure and closing the valve connected to the sample introduction member in which closing the valve prevents additional transfer of the gas substantially at atmospheric pressure to the mass vacuum chamber at reduced pressure. In certain embodiments producing ions is synchronized with a pressure variation generated from opening and closing the discontinuous atmospheric interface.

Analyzing may include providing a mass analyzer to generate a mass spectrum of the ions produced from the neutral gas. Exemplary mass analyzers include a quadrupole ion trap a rectilinear ion trap a cylindrical ion trap an ion cyclotron resonance trap and an orbitrap. A method for analyzing a sample the method comprising 

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for analyzing a sample that involves introducing a neutral gas including particles into a vacuum chamber via a sample introduction member in which the vacuum chamber includes a conducting member producing ions within the vacuum chamber by interaction of particles in the gas with an electrical discharge generated between a distal end of the sample introduction member and the conducting member and analyzing the ions. The particles may be any type of particles for example solid particles liquid droplets or a combination thereof.

The invention generally relates to systems and methods for analyzing a sample. In certain embodiments the invention provides systems for analyzing a sample that include an electric source a vacuum chamber including a conducting member in which the conducting member is coupled to the electric source a sample introduction member coupled to the vacuum chamber in which a distal end of the sample introduction member resides within the vacuum chamber and proximate the conducting member such that an electrical discharge may be produced between the sample introduction member and the conducting member in which the discharge ionizes molecules of a neutral gas introduced into the vacuum chamber and a mass analyzer within the vacuum chamber.

The vacuum chamber includes a mass analyzer and a conducting member that resides within the vacuum chamber. Any mass analyzer known in the art may be used with systems of the invention. Exemplary mass analyzers include a quadrupole ion trap a rectilinear ion trap a cylindrical ion trap a ion cyclotron resonance trap and an orbitrap. The conducting member is positioned proximate to the distal end of the sample introduction member that also resides in the vacuum chamber. The conducting member is connected to an electric source such as a DC electric source. In the context of systems of the invention proximate refers to a position close enough that an electric discharge may be generated between the distal end of the sample introduction member and the conducting member.

In operation a neutral gas is introduced through the sample introduction member into the vacuum chamber. An electric voltage such as a DC electric voltage is applied to the conducting member in the presence of the neutral gas. Due to the proximity of conducting member and the distal end of the sample introduction member an electric discharge is produced between the conducting member and the distal end of the sample introduction member. Molecules of the neutral gas interact with the discharge to form ions which are subsequently transferred to the mass analyzer by a combination of the electric discharge and the gas flow.

In the embodiment shown in the sample introduction member is shown integrated with a discontinuous atmospheric interface. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the discontinuous atmospheric interface is an optional component of systems and methods of the invention and that systems and methods of the invention can operate without the use of a discontinuous atmospheric interface. The discontinuous atmospheric interface is discussed in greater detail below. Briefly the discontinuous atmospheric interface shown in includes a valve for controlling entry of gas into the vacuum chamber such that the gas is transferred into the mass analyzer in a discontinuous mode. Any valve known in the art may be used. Exemplary valves include a pinch valve a thin plate shutter valve leak valve and a needle valve. The atmospheric pressure interface may further include a tube in which an exterior portion of the tube is aligned with the valve. Generally two stainless steel capillaries are connected to the piece of silicone plastic tubing the open closed status of which is controlled by the pinch valve.

As shown in a pulse of gas can be introduced into the vacuum to result in an increase of the pressure inside the vacuum. The pressure variation for operating the pulsed valve at a frequency of 0.3 Hz is shown in . By applying a DC voltage between the metal capillary C and a metal mesh discharge occurs when the pressure is higher than a certain value which ionizes the analyte molecules in the gas sample and . The ions are transferred into the mass analyzer by the gas flow and the electric field and trapped for mass analysis. After the valve is closed the pressure decreases and the discharge stops automatically. The ionization process is synchronized with the sample introduction. The minimum pressure for the discharge is dependent on the electric field and the type of gas which can be determined with Paschen s curves for the different gases.

Data have been obtained using the setup shown in . Spectra were recorded for naphthalene in air at low concentrations The molecular radical cation m z 128 was observed. shows a spectrum for dimethyl methylphosphonate in air and shows a spectrum of methyl salicylate vapor in air.

In certain embodiments systems and methods of the invention have two discontinuous atmospheric interfaces integrated into the sample introduction member as shown in . shows a setup to use a capillary C with a defined volume to precisely control the amount of gas sample to be introduced into the vacuum for analysis. An example of the operation procedure is shown in . The Valve is first opened so the pressure inside the C will decrease to the same pressure inside the vacuum manifold P. After Valve is completely closed the Valve is opened to fill the C with gas sample and the pressure inside C will reach the atmospheric pressure P. The Valve is then closed and the Valve is opened again to allow the gas samples inside the C to be released into the vacuum. The pressure of the vacuum manifold increases the discharge occurs the analyte molecules in the gas are ionized and introduced into the mass analyzer. A constant volume of gas Vis introduced into the vacuum manifold each time and the reproducibility of the quantitative analysis will be improved.

Discontinuous atmospheric interfaces are described in Ouyang et al. U.S. patent application number 2010 0301209 and PCT application number PCT US2008 065245 the content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The concept of the DAI is to open its channel during ion introduction and then close it for subsequent mass analysis during each scan. An ion transfer channel with a much bigger flow conductance can be allowed for a DAI than for a traditional continuous API. The pressure inside the manifold temporarily increases significantly when the channel is opened for maximum ion introduction. All high voltages can be shut off and only low voltage RF is on for trapping of the ions during this period. After the ion introduction the channel is closed and the pressure can decrease over a period of time to reach the optimal pressure for further ion manipulation or mass analysis when the high voltages can be is turned on and the RF can be scanned to high voltage for mass analysis.

A DAI opens and shuts down the airflow in a controlled fashion. The pressure inside the vacuum manifold increases when the API opens and decreases when it closes. The combination of a DAI with a trapping device which can be a mass analyzer or an intermediate stage storage device allows maximum introduction of an ion package into a system with a given pumping capacity.

Much larger openings can be used for the pressure constraining components in the API in the new discontinuous introduction mode. During the short period when the API is opened the ion trapping device is operated in the trapping mode with a low RF voltage to store the incoming ions at the same time the high voltages on other components such as conversion dynode or electron multiplier are shut off to avoid damage to those device and electronics at the higher pressures. The API can then be closed to allow the pressure inside the manifold to drop back to the optimum value for mass analysis at which time the ions are mass analyzed in the trap or transferred to another mass analyzer within the vacuum system for mass analysis. This two pressure mode of operation enabled by operation of the API in a discontinuous fashion maximizes ion introduction as well as optimizing conditions for the mass analysis with a given pumping capacity.

The design goal is to have largest opening while keeping the optimum vacuum pressure for the mass analyzer which is between 10to 10torr depending the type of mass analyzer. The larger the opening in an atmospheric pressure interface the higher is the ion current delivered into the vacuum system and hence to the mass analyzer.

An exemplary embodiment of a DAI is shown in . The DAI includes a pinch valve that is used to open and shut off a pathway in a silicone tube connecting regions at atmospheric pressure and in vacuum. A normally closed pinch valve 390NC24330 ASCO Valve Inc. Florham Park N.J. is used to control the opening of the vacuum manifold to atmospheric pressure region. Two stainless steel capillaries are connected to the piece of silicone plastic tubing the open closed status of which is controlled by the pinch valve. The stainless steel capillary connecting to the atmosphere is the flow restricting element and has an ID of 250 m an OD of 1.6 mm 1 16 and a length of 10 cm. The stainless steel capillary on the vacuum side has an ID of 1.0 mm an OD of 1.6 mm 1 16 and a length of 5.0 cm. The plastic tubing has an ID of 1 16 an OD of and a length of 5.0 cm. One or Both stainless steel capillaries may be grounded. The pumping system of the mini consists of a two stage diaphragm pump 1091 N84.0 8.99 KNF Neuberger Inc. Trenton N.J. with pumping speed of 5 L min 0.3 m hr and a TPD hybrid turbomolecular pump Pfeiffer Vacuum Inc. Nashua N.H. with a pumping speed of 11 L s.

When the pinch valve is constantly energized and the plastic tubing is constantly open the flow conductance is so high that the pressure in vacuum manifold is above 30 torr with the diaphragm pump operating. The ion transfer efficiency was measured to be 0.2 which is comparable to a lab scale mass spectrometer with a continuous API. However under these conditions the TPD 011 turbomolecular pump cannot be turned on. When the pinch valve is de energized the plastic tubing is squeezed closed and the turbo pump can then be turned on to pump the manifold to its ultimate pressure in the range of 1 10torr.

The sequence of operations for performing mass analysis using ion traps usually includes but is not limited to ion introduction ion cooling and RF scanning. After the manifold pressure is pumped down initially a scan function is implemented to switch between open and closed modes for ion introduction and mass analysis. During the ionization time a 24 V DC is used to energize the pinch valve and the API is open. The potential on the rectilinear ion trap RIT end electrode is also set to ground during this period. A minimum response time for the pinch valve is found to be 10 ms and an ionization time between 15 ms and 30 ms is used for the characterization of the discontinuous API. A cooling time between 250 ms to 500 ms is implemented after the API is closed to allow the pressure to decrease and the ions to cool down via collisions with background air molecules. The high voltage on the electron multiplier is then turned on and the RF voltage is scanned for mass analysis. During the operation of the discontinuous API the pressure change in the manifold can be monitored using the micro pirani vacuum gauge MKS 925C MKS Instruments Inc. Wilmington Mass. on Mini 10 portable system.

References and citations to other documents such as patents patent applications patent publications journals books papers web contents have been made throughout this disclosure. All such documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the invention described herein.

A Mini 11 handheld MS system was modified as shown in . The sample introduction was controlled by a discontinuous atmospheric interface DAI that included of a pinch valve 390NC24330 ASCO Valve Inc. Florham Park N.J. USA a conductive silicone tube i.d. 1 16 in. o.d. in. and length 20 mm Simolex Rubber Corp. Plymouth Mich. USA and two 5 cm long stainless steel capillaries i.d. 0.04 inch o.d. 1 16 inch . A stainless steel 316 woven wire mesh McMaster Carr Chicago Ill. USA with a grid size of 0.0098 and a wire diameter of 0.0037 52.7 transparency was placed between the DAI capillary and the rectilinear ion trap RIT in the vacuum chamber. The gaps were 2 mm between the capillary and the mesh and 4 mm between the mesh and the front z electrode of the RIT. The metal mesh was connected to a DC voltage power supply Ortec 659 AMETEC Inc. Oak Ridge Tenn. USA through an adjustable resistor for limiting the discharge current. The capillary was grounded.

The DC power supply has an internal impendence of about 2M and provides a constant DC voltage with an output current lower than 100 A. The discharge current was limited by the power supply internal impedance and the adjustable resistor R . The equivalent circuit is shown in . The capillary mesh assembly initially behaved as a capacitor C Y. P. Raizer 2nd ed. Springer Berlin 1991 . When the discharge was established and sustained the current between the discharge electrodes was constant and the discharge area was equivalent to a regular resistor R .

In a system of the invention the discharge process was governed by Paschen s law and was synchronized with the variation of the pressure. Before the DAI opened the pressure in the manifold was low typically 10torr step circle around 1 in . The voltage applied on the two discharge electrodes remained constant. When the DAI opened the neutral analyte molecules in the air were introduced into the chamber. The pressure between the discharge electrodes rose and the discharge occurred when the pressure exceeded the breakdown point. The breakdown condition was dependent on both the pressure and the electric field F. Paschen Annalen der Physik 1889 . A glow was observed during the discharge and the analyte molecules were ionized step circle around 2 in . The ions generated were transferred into the RIT mass analyzer and trapped. After the DAI was closed the pressure decreases due to the continuous gas pumping out and the discharge stopped step circle around 3 in . As a summary the ionization in the systems of the invention was synchronized with the opening and closing of the DAI through the variation of the chamber pressure and the discharge was automatically turned on and off. No fragile component like a filament for electron impact EI or additional electronics for operation synchronization were required.

As shown in systems of the invention allowed for intact molecular ions to be generated in both positive and negative mode for a variety of volatile organic compounds in air i.e. a soft ionization method . M ions from naphthalene and M H from DMMP and DEET were observed in positive mode. M ions from 1 4 benzoquinone and M H from 3 Nitrophenol were observed in negative mode. As for a comparison these compounds were also tested with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization APCI on the same MS system while naphthalene and 1 4 benzoquinone were not be ionized by APCI in positive and negative mode respectively.

Systems of the invention were characterized by monitoring ion abundance with the delay of the ion trapping in the trap . The pressure and the ion abundances were both recorded and the delays increased 1 ms for each test. The headspace vapor of 1 dimethyl methylphosphonate DMMP vapor pressure 112 Pa at 25 C. T. E. Mlsna S. Cemalovic M. Warburton S. T. Hobson D. A. Mlsna S. V. Patel. Chemicapacitive microsensors for chemical warfare agent and toxic industrial chemical detection. Sensors and Actuators B Chemical 2006 116 192 in methanol was analyzed. The voltage on the mesh was set to about 500 V. The ion abundance as a function of the delay time was plotted for the DAI open time of 6 and 7 ms as shown in . A long DAI open time 7 ms resulted in overall higher ion abundance. The ion generation rates were calculated and plotted in the inset of . Ions were mostly generated in the middle of the DAI open period.

A previous study using external ionization source with DAI had shown that a longer DAI open time resulted in a higher ion intensity L. Gao G. Li Z. Nie J. Duncan Z. Ouyang R. G. Cooks. Characterization of a discontinuous atmospheric pressure interface. Multiple ion introduction pulses for improved performance. International Journal of Mass Spectrometry 2009 283 30 . Inside the manifold for systems of the invention the higher intensity observed with longer DAI open time 7 ms could be due to both the longer open time as well as a better ion trapping at higher pressure. Variation in the DAI open time leads to difference in the profile of the pressure change. The pressure decrease was slower with a longer DAI open time and the discharge time was therefore also extended .

Five chemicals selected from 16 priority PAHs listed by US EPA anthracene m z 178 benz anthracene m z 228 chrysene m z 228 and pyrene m z 202 were analyzed using the system described herein . Samples of naphthalene in air at concentrations from 5 ppb to 165 ppb were each release to the vicinity of the DAI inlet at a rate of 5 mL min using a 25 ml syringe GASTTIGHT 1025 HAMILTON Co. Reno Nev. USA with a syringe pump SP200i WPI Hertfordshire SG4 OTJ UK . The intensity of the naphthalene ion M m z 128 observed was plotted as a function of the concentration in with a linearity of R 0.997. The spectrum for 5 ppb is shown in the inset of

The stability of the discharge is important for the ionization efficiency as well as the quantitative analysis using the systems of the invention. Generally the discharge process can be controlled by varying the chamber pressure and the electric field through the distance between the discharge electrodes and or the voltage applied . As an example the discharge stability was improved by lowering the maximum pressure in the manifold during the DAI operation which helped to prevent the current being overdrawn during the discharge . The ion intensity was increased more than 10 times.

