---

title: Systems and methods facilitating random number generation for hashes in video and audio applications
abstract: Systems and methods facilitating random number generation of hashes for video and/or audio are provided. In one embodiment, a system can include: a memory, and a microprocessor that executes computer executable components. The components can include a weighted distribution generation component that can generate a sampling distribution of a weighted combination of uniform distributions, and obtain a sample value from the sampling distribution. In one embodiment, horizontal regions of substantially equal area can be identified. The sample value can be obtained by selecting one of the horizontal regions, and uniformly selecting a coordinate from the horizontal region. The coordinate can correspond to a value on a horizontal axis of the sampling distribution, and the value can be equal to a sample value. The sample value can be employed to compute a hash employed in video and/or audio fingerprinting and/or in computing image descriptors for video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092859&OS=09092859&RS=09092859
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09092859
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 355 514 which is now U.S. Pat. No. 8 781 154 filed Jan. 21 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FACILITATING RANDOM NUMBER GENERATION FOR HASHES IN VIDEO AND AUDIO APPLICATIONS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to random number generation in general and to random number generation for hashes in video and audio applications in particular.

Video and or audio processing methods employ fingerprinting to identify and extract a video and or audio or portions thereof . For example a video or portions of the video can be employed in comparing videos and or video data. To generate fingerprints hashes are typically generated from random numbers. Unfortunately the process for generating random numbers can be time consuming and process intensive. Especially challenging is the fact that a plethora of random numbers are typically generated which can magnify problems associated with inefficiency in random number generation. For example conventional sampling techniques typically involve verifying a sample against a distribution from which the sample is taken. In some cases the sample is rejected and another sample must then be taken. Normally a few percent e.g. approximately 3 of samples are rejected and need to be re sampled. Unfortunately although re sampling is an infrequent event the rejection approach typically requires computer code or hardware to implement a conditional e.g. used in a loop. The presence of the condition can make pipelining difficult since pipelining works best when the computation being pipelined takes a fixed number of central processing unit CPU cycles. Accordingly systems and methods for efficient random number generation are desired.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Systems and methods in this disclosure relate to random number generation. The random numbers can be employed in generating hashes for media thereby facilitating fingerprinting. In some embodiments for example a method of random number generation includes determining a sample value. The determining the sample value can include generating a sampling distribution comprised of a weighted combination of a plurality of uniform distributions and determining the sample value from the sampling distribution. The method can also include computing a hash based at least on the sample value and providing the hash to a fingerprinting system for generation of a fingerprint for a media the fingerprint being based on the hash.

In one or more embodiments the disclosed subject matter relates to a fingerprinting system. The system can include a memory that stores computer executable components and a microprocessor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory. The components can include a communication component that receives media and a fingerprinting component that generates a fingerprint for the media. The fingerprint can be based on a hash and the fingerprinting component can also employ a random number generation system that can compute the hash. Computation of the hash can include generation of a sampling distribution composed of a weighted combination of a plurality of uniform distributions and identification of a plurality of horizontal regions of substantially equal area under a curve of the sampling distribution. The bottommost one of the plurality of horizontal regions is bounded by a same set of boundaries as one of the plurality of horizontal regions immediately above the bottommost one of the plurality of horizontal regions. Computation of the hash can also include selection of one of the plurality of horizontal regions uniform selection of a coordinate based on a selected one of the plurality of horizontal regions the coordinate corresponding to a value on a horizontal axis of the sampling distribution and determining the value corresponding to the coordinate the value being equal to a sample value.

In another embodiment the disclosed subject matter relates to a method facilitating fingerprinting. The method can include receiving media and determining a hash the hash being based at least on a computed sample value. Computing the sample value can include generating a sampling distribution the generating comprising excluding tails of a probability distribution function PDF . Computing the sample value can also include identifying horizontal regions of substantially equal area under a curve of the sampling distribution. A bottommost one of the horizontal regions can be bounded by the same set of boundaries as the horizontal region immediately above the bottommost horizontal region. Computing the sample value can also include selecting one of the plurality of horizontal regions and uniformly selecting a coordinate from a selected one of the plurality of horizontal regions. The coordinate can correspond to a value on a horizontal axis of the sampling distribution. Computing the sample value can then include determining the value corresponding to the coordinate the value being equal to a sample value. After computation of the hash the method can include generating a fingerprint for the media based on the hash.

In one or more embodiments the disclosed subject matter relates to a method facilitating random number generation for computation of hashes. The method can include generating a sampling distribution comprised of a weighted combination of a plurality of uniform distributions and obtaining a sample value from the sampling distribution.

In another embodiment the disclosed subject matter relates to a system that facilitates random number generation for computation of hashes. The system can include a memory that stores computer executable components and a microprocessor that executes computer executable components. The components can include a weighted distribution generation component that generates a sampling distribution including a weighted combination of uniform distributions and obtains a sample value from the sampling distribution.

In another embodiment the disclosed subject matter relates to a non transitory computer storage medium storing computer executable instructions that when executed on a processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations include generating a sampling distribution comprised of a weighted combination of a plurality of uniform distributions and obtaining a sample value from the sampling distribution.

Toward the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments include the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in this disclosure detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments can be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It is evident however that such embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

Systems and methods described in this disclosure relate to random number generation for computation of a hash for video or audio. The systems and methods can advantageously be employed to efficiently generate random numbers for use in computation of the hashes. For example in one embodiment a method can include generating a sampling distribution comprised of a weighted combination of a plurality of uniform distributions. The method can include obtaining a sample value from the sampling distribution. The systems and methods employed in this disclosure facilitate the generation of a random number as a result of a fixed number of instructions with no conditionals or loops. As such these random number generations can be pipelined or performed via parallel execution. The hashes can be employed in various processing techniques including but not limited to video and or audio fingerprinting and or for computation of image descriptors in images or video.

The RNG system is described in greater detail in one embodiment with reference to . is an illustration of a block diagram of an exemplary non limiting system that facilitates random number generation for computation of a hash. is an illustration of a graph for use by an exemplary system that facilitates random number generation for computation of a hash. In various embodiments the hash can be a hash for a video for audio and or for computation of an image descriptor of a video or frame thereof .

Turning to the RNG system is one example of an embodiment of an RNG system . As such one or more of the structure and or the function of the RNG system can include the structure and or function of the RNG system .

The RNG system can include a weighted distribution WD generation component a probability distribution function PDF generation component a hash generation component a microprocessor and or a memory . The WD generation component PDF generation component hash generation component microprocessor and or memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the RNG system .

The WD generation component can generate a sampling distribution from which a random number can be sampled. In some embodiments the sampling distribution can be represented by a PDF that is or that includes a weighted combination of one or more uniform distributions. For example in some embodiments the PDF can be substantially equivalent to a Gamma 2 1 distribution and or represented by Equation 1 Equation 1 In some embodiments the weighted combination of one or more uniform distributions can be represented as shown in Equation 2 

In Equation 2 I can be an indicator function that is equal to a value of 1 if the condition is true and can be equal to a value of 0 if the condition is false. Further the variable k can be a value on a uniform or Gaussian distribution and can be bounded by 1 and K. A PDF composed of a number of uniform distributions can approximate a normal or Gaussian distribution shown in . The uniform distribution can be bounded by uand vin some embodiments. The value x can be a uniformly or randomly selected number on the interval u v .

Accordingly in some embodiments the WD generation component can obtain a sample value from the distribution of Equation 2. With reference to Equation 2 in some embodiments the WD generation component can sample an index value k on a uniform distribution between 1 and K. The WD generation component can then generate a uniform random number x from the interval u v of the distribution.

In various embodiments the PDF generation component can generate one or more PDFs e.g. P x bounded by interval u v . While examples of P x are described P x can be any of a number of different types of distributions as long as P x is 1 increasing 2 decreasing or 3 increasing and then decreasing e.g. has a single peak . In other embodiments the systems and methods described in this disclosure can employ other P x distributions that are adapted for use e.g. having more than one peak with one or more portions of the distribution having additional peaks beyond one peak removed prior to generating the sampling distributions . For example in some embodiments P x can be a Gamma 2 1 function described with reference to Equation 1 above. In other embodiments as shown P x can be a normal or Gaussian distribution. For example as shown in Equation 3 P x can be a normal or Gaussian distribution.

Turning back to the hash generation component can generate a hash based on the sample value obtained by the WD generation component .

Accordingly with reference to the WD generation component can generate the sampling distribution e.g. Q x as a PDF as described above. The WD generation component can cover the area under the curve of Q x with K horizontal regions of substantially equal area. The WD generation component can then shorten the bottommost region under the curve e.g. the k 1 region to the length of the region immediately above the bottommost region e.g. the k 2 region . Depicting positive values of x similarly if Q x is bounded by 0 v the bottommost region e.g. the k 1 region can be shortened from length 0 v to the length of the region e.g. the k 2 region . By bounding the region the tails of the Gaussian distribution are removed and the efficiency with which the random number is obtained is efficient.

Next the WD generation component can select at random one of the horizontal regions. In this embodiment for the sake of example the region corresponding to k K 1 is selected. Next as shown the WD generation component can uniformly select from the selected horizontal region a coordinate . The coordinate can correspond to a value on the horizontal axis e.g. x axis of the sampling distribution in some embodiments. In some embodiments uniform selection can be random or pseudorandom selection. The value corresponding to the coordinate can be a random number for hash generation. By bounding the region as shown at the updated boundary there is a high likelihood that the random number selected is under the curve of Q x and therefore the rejection step typically required in conventional approaches can be avoided.

Turning back to microprocessor can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to any of the systems and or methods disclosed. The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to any of the systems and or methods disclosed.

The MF system can include a communication component a fingerprinting component a RNG system a microprocessor and or a memory . The communication component fingerprinting component RNG system microprocessor and or memory can be electrically or communicatively coupled to perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure.

The communication component can receive media e.g. audio an image or a video. The fingerprinting component can generate a fingerprint for the media. The fingerprint can be based on a hash and the fingerprinting component can also employ the RNG system to compute the hash. In some embodiments the fingerprinting component can employ the fingerprint for fingerprinting for the audio and or video.

The RNG system can compute the hash by generation of a sampling distribution composed of a weighted combination of a plurality of uniform distributions and identification of horizontal regions of substantially equal area under a curve of the sampling distribution. The bottommost one of the horizontal regions can be bounded by the same set of boundaries as the horizontal region immediately above the bottommost horizontal region. To compute the hash the RNG system can select a horizontal region and select a coordinate from the selected horizontal region. The coordinate can correspond to a value on a horizontal axis e.g. x axis of the sampling distribution. The value can be equal to the sample value e.g. random number . The RNG system can generate the hash based at least on the sample value. Alternatively the RNG system can provide the sample value to the fingerprinting component for generation of the hash based on the sample value.

Microprocessor can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to any of the systems and or methods disclosed. The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to any of the systems and or methods disclosed. In some embodiments the RNG system is stored in memory .

Turning first to at method can include generating a sampling distribution of a weighted combination of a number of uniform distributions e.g. using the WD generation component . At method can include obtaining a sample value from the sampling distribution e.g. using the WD generation component . In some embodiments although not shown method can include generating a hash based on the sample value e.g. using the hash generation component .

Turning now to method can provide further detail of an embodiment for generating the random number for use in computing the hash. The generation can be based on use of one or more values within an area under a curve of a PDF having a bounded interval from a first value to a second value. At method can include generating the sampling distribution to exclude the tails of the PDF e.g. using the WD generation component . By generating the sampling distribution to exclude the tails of the PDF e.g. as shown at the updated boundary of the random number selected in below has a high probability of being under the curve of the sampling distribution and a rejection step e.g. rejecting the random number selecting because the number is not under the curve and re sampling can be avoided. At method can include identifying horizontal regions of substantially equal area under a curve of the sampling distribution e.g. using the WD generation component . The bottommost horizontal region can be bounded by the same set of boundaries as the horizontal region immediately above the bottommost region.

At method can include selecting one of the horizontal regions e.g. using the WD generation component .

Continuing the method at at method can include selecting a coordinate from the selected horizontal region e.g. using the WD generation component . In some embodiments the selection of the coordinate can be uniform selection. At method can include determining a value corresponding to the coordinate the value is assigned to be the sample value e.g. using the WD generation component . With reference to the coordinate can be a value of the x coordinate in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the sampling distribution Q x can be generated to follow P x as closely as possible by minimizing the divergence between Q x and P x which can be performed by maximizing Equation 4. log Equation 4 

The maximum may be when Q x has bounded support since bounded support makes Q x 0 for values outside a certain interval yielding P x log Q x for those values of x as long as P x 0 everywhere. An alternative is to make the range of x bounded by for example ignoring tails of P x i.e. add the restriction that U

In another embodiment other loss functions on P x and Q x can be used. For example a large number of random values xcan be sampled from P x . Equation 5 can then be maximized.

In yet another embodiment the Lor Ldistance between P x and Q x can be minimized. The L1 and L2 variables can represent the Manhattan and Euclidean distances respectively. In another embodiment the Bhattacharya similarity integral shown in Equation 6 can be maximized. Equation 6 

The optimizations can be performed using a variety of methods including but not limited to gradient or sub gradient methods or Expectation Maximization algorithms.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments described in this disclosure can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where media may be found. In this regard the various embodiments described in this disclosure can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various embodiments of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network can include other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or can represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client can be a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client can utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software firmware a combination of hardware and software software and or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and or the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can process data or request transaction services or tasks that can implicate the techniques for systems as described in this disclosure for one or more embodiments.

A server can be typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described in this disclosure can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus can be the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Computing objects etc. can also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described in this disclosure can be applied to any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments i.e. anywhere that a device may wish to read or write transactions from or to a data store. Accordingly the below remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer such as a media server or other media management server components.

Although not required embodiments can be partly implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various embodiments described in this disclosure. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing environment for implementing one or more embodiments includes a computing device in the form of a computer is provided. Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touch screen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner video camera or any other device that allows the user to interact with the computer . A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts can be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish or consume media in a flexible way.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques detailed in this disclosure. Thus embodiments in this disclosure are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described in this disclosure. Thus various embodiments described in this disclosure can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used in this disclosure differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer can be typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described in this disclosure can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors and or other electronic units designed to perform the functions described in this disclosure or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium or a computer readable storage medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described in this disclosure can be implemented with modules or components e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described in this disclosure. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. A memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various structures.

The word exemplary is used in this disclosure to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed in this disclosure is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described in this disclosure. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies hereinafter.

In addition to the various embodiments described in this disclosure it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described in this disclosure and similarly storage can be effected across a plurality of devices. The invention is not to be limited to any single embodiment but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

