---

title: 1x and 1xEV-DO hybrid call setup
abstract: Systems and methods for hybrid call setup in a wireless communication system are disclosed. A page is sent on a first network informing a target device of a pending communication on a second network. The page also informs the target device a short data burst (SDB) will be sent on the first network. The short data burst (SDB) is sent on the first network containing setup information regarding the pending communication on the second network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474044&OS=09474044&RS=09474044
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09474044
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140128
---
The present application for patent is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 360 961 entitled 1 AND 1 EV DO HYBRID CALL SETUP filed Feb. 22 2006 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to communications in a wireless environment. More particularly the invention relates to call setup in a wireless communication system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 EV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations or access terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile station monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile station and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile station. For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like as is known in the art.

Additionally since the mobile stations periodically monitor the control channel for messages paging directed to the mobile station the paging interval can significantly impact the system performance Typically the system responsiveness decreases as the paging interval increases. In systems with long paging intervals the system responsiveness may not be acceptable for all applications.

In 1 and 1 EV DO systems it is possible to page on one network to notify the access terminal of a page and data waiting on another network. For example a 1 page can be received informing the access terminal that 1 EV DO page is waiting. However this process of paging on one network to notify an access terminal of a page on another network does not increase the responsiveness of the system and can further delay the receipt of the page and data waiting on the other network.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for improved call setup time using a hybrid solution of 1 and 1 EV DO communications in a wireless communication system.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method for wireless communications comprising sending a page on a first network informing a target of a pending communication on a second network wherein the page informs the target that additional information will be sent on the first network and sending the additional information on the first network wherein the additional information contains setup information regarding the pending communication on the second network.

Another embodiment of the invention may include an apparatus comprising a node configured to receive connection request data and communication data from an application server directed to a target wherein the node is further configured to direct the connection request data to a first network and the communication data to a second network and wherein the first network is configured to page the target and to send a second communication containing call setup information for the second network.

Another embodiment of the invention may include a computer readable media embodying a method for hybrid call setup in a wireless communication system the method comprising sending a page on a first network informing a target of a pending communication on a second network wherein the page informs the target additional information will be sent on the first network and sending the additional information on the first network wherein the additional information contains setup information regarding the pending communication on the second network.

Another embodiment of the invention may include an access terminal comprising logic configured to camp on a first network to receive paging information for both the first network and a second network logic configured to receive a page on the first network related to a communication pending on the second network and logic configured to maintain a connection to the first network for receipt of additional information regarding a connection to the second network.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a communication system comprising means for sending a page on a first network informing a target of a pending communication on a second network wherein the page informs the target that additional information will be sent on the first network and means for sending the additional information on the first network wherein the additional information contains setup information regarding the pending communication on the second network.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carrier the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention may include an access terminal comprising logic configured to camp on a first network to receive paging information for both the first network and a second network. Upon receipt of a designated page e.g. a special service option additional logic configured to receive a page on the first network related to a communication pending on the second network can be activated. Then logic configured to maintain a connection to the first network for receipt of additional information regarding a connection to the second network can be utilized. Further logic configured to connect to the second network using the additional information received from the first network can be used to facilitate the connection on the second network. These aspects will be discussed in greater detail below.

As discussed above the logic can be embodied in any combination of software and or hardware configured to perform the described functions. For example an application operating on access terminal may include all the logic elements discussed above. Alternatively an application may only contain selected logic elements that interact with one or more other resident applications and or hardware elements e.g. API layer processor ASIC memory and the like containing the remaining logic to perform the functionality describe herein.

Additionally the access terminal such as cellular telephone can have installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications downloaded from an application download server. The software applications may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the operating system or API when so desired by the user or invoked by another program.

As used herein access terminal includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units personal digital assistants PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN.

As discussed in the background paging can be used to notify an access terminal e.g. wireless device that a communication directed to that terminal is available. Typically the access terminal monitors a non traffic channel e.g. control channel to check for paging directed to the access terminal. When an access terminal receives the paging information a traffic channel can then be established between the access terminal and radio access network RAN .

Since wireless devices are typically resource limited in terms of power it is advantageous to set the wireless device into a low power idle state or sleep mode as is known in the art. However entering a sleep mode will typically increase the delay for receiving paging information from the RAN which can degrade the overall responsiveness of the wireless device and wireless communication. For example access terminals in standard 1 EV DO Release 0 EV DO operate with a 5.12 second paging interval during a sleep mode. The 5.12 second paging interval is comprised of twelve 426.66 ms Control Channel Cycles CC Cycle . During session configuration the RAN can map the wireless device to one of these 12 Control Channel Cycles so that it may page the mobile on a 5.12 second boundary. While the standard 5.12 second paging interval is adequate for many applications it is far too long for delay sensitive applications.

Additionally access terminals can monitor other networks such as a 1 RTT 1 network for pages which can have a faster paging interval than the EV DO network. For example the paging interval on a 1 network can be on the order of 80 ms to 160 ms. Accordingly a single access terminal may monitor multiple channels to receive data and voice paging information. Although it may be necessary in conventional systems for a single access terminal to monitor multiple networks e.g. 1 and EV DO this may lead to increased delay times increased power consumption and the possibility of missed pages due to overlapping page cycles and the like. Accordingly a hybrid solution can direct the access terminal to monitor pages on one network to decrease the response time and reduce the likelihood of missed pages.

For example as illustrated in wireless infrastructure can send a page on a first network e.g. 1 to inform a target device e.g. AT that a communication is pending for it on a second network e.g. EV DO but to wait for additional information on the first network. Target device can acknowledge the page . Then the wireless infrastructure can send a short data burst SDB containing the additional information to the target device . The target device then acknowledges the SDB . The target device proceeds to setup a traffic channel TCH on the second network and communicate on the second network. For example as discussed above the second network can be an EV DO network which can provide high speed communications to and from the target device . The page SBD and acknowledgements can be sent on the first network such as 1 that can provide a faster page cycle. The SBD can include call setup and or other information that can facilitate establishing the communication link on the second network. Accordingly a hybrid call setup solution can be realized that leverages advantageous features from both networks.

The short data burst SDB messages such as provided in TIA EIA IS 2000 Standards for CDMA2000 Spread Spectrum Systems for example may be sent over both dedicated physical channels such as the forward fundamental channel FCH or forward dedicated common control channel F DCCH or common physical channels such as the reverse access channel R ACH reverse enhanced access channel R EACH forward common control channel F CCCH or paging channel PCH . SDB messages may be transported by radio burst protocol RBP which maps the messages onto an appropriate and available physical layer channel. Because SDB messages may carry arbitrary IP traffic and may be sent over common physical channels SDB messages provide a mechanism to exchange group call signaling when a calling client s access terminal has no dedicated traffic channels.

Additionally as illustrated in the page to the target device may be sent in response to a connection request from an originator . For example the originator sends a connection request to the wireless infrastructure and then establishes a traffic channel on the second network . The originator can then wait for an acknowledgement that the connection request was received by the target . Then the communication between the originator and target can begin on the second network.

The originator can be an access terminal AT as illustrated or any other device that can initiate a connection request to the wireless infrastructure . For example the originator can be a remote server group communication server application server media server operatively coupled to the wireless infrastructure or included in the wireless infrastructure itself. Further any system that can utilize reduced connection setup time can utilize embodiments of the present invention.

A group communication system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by the hybrid communication setup disclosed herein. The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communications system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal such as ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality wireless video cameras still cameras audio devices such as music recorders or players laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an access terminal AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key e.g. in on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example AT the request may be transmitted over the air to one or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network RAN . However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to distributed network .

Referring to one or more group communication servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to distributed network . Since group communication server can be connected to the distributed network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Typically a group communication server controls communications between the wireless devices of set group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN .

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the details of a group communication system will not be further discussed.

Referring to a system level diagram of an embodiment of the invention is illustrated. For example wireless infrastructure can include group communication server s PDSN home location register HLR visitor location register VLR MSC PCFs and BSCs and and BTSs and . Each of these elements may be used to provide voice and or data to AT . For example as illustrated in AT can be connected to two networks and e.g. 1 and EV DO for communicating over packet data sessions. As discussed in the foregoing the first network can be used to page e.g. announce the target device informing the target device of a communication pending on the second network . In addition the page informs the target device that additional information to facilitate the call setup on the second network will follow on the first network .

The PDSN can receive data e.g. a connection request from group communication server and direct the data to a first network to page the target device . The data can include call setup information for a second network . For example PDSN can deliver the data to the 1 network e.g. PCF BSC BTS MSC HLR and VLR . The 1 network can send a page to the target device to locate the target device. The 1 network can then send a SBD containing connection setup information for the second network to the target device . Accordingly system bandwidth is conserved because the SDB is not broadcast to multiple BSCs BTSs. However since additional information will be sent on the first 1 network the page is coded or identified e.g. using a special service option and or software on the target device such that the target device remains on the first network to receive the second communication e.g. SDB .

The target can be camped on the first network to receive pages for both the first network and second network . As used herein the term camped refers to a device predominantly monitoring one network for information. However a camped device may still periodically monitor the second network for overhead information and the like. Once the target device receives the page on the first network it can send a response to the page on the first network and then remains on the first network for the second communication before connecting to the second network. Once the second communication e.g. SBD is complete the target can use the information contained therein to facilitate the connection to the pending communication on the second network. For example a PTT call media stream Qualcomm s signaling protocol QSP data and the like can be pending on the EV DO network and the target can switch to the EV DO network and establish a traffic channel to receive the communication . Accordingly the high speed data capability of the EV DO network can be used in combination with the rapid paging intervals of the 1 network to provide a hybrid solution for low latency high bandwidth applications.

As can be appreciated from a single target can receive an announce message page and SDB on the first network 1 and additional data on a second network EV DO . Further since AT is the common target for both data communications the same IP address may be used for each packet data session which can improve the response time in setting up the EV DO communication and provide transparency to devices outside the wireless network. For example the VOIP connection would maintain the same target IP address for both the page SBD and subsequent traffic communication . Accordingly the PDSN or other server can be configured to direct the packets to the correct network based on the communication being sent from an originator application server e.g. . For example a Differentiated Services Code Point DSCP value can be used to identify the announce SDB from the data stream . However the invention is not limited to this configuration for example instead of or in combination with the DSCP a specific IP port could be used for each network a specialized page service option can be defined and the like.

As discussed previously the page informs AT to stay on the 1 network for additional information regarding the pending communication on the EV DO network . Upon receiving the page ack. the 1 network sends announce SDB to AT containing additional information regarding the pending communication on the EV DO network . Upon receipt of the SDB AT processes the information contained therein and begins access procedures for the EV DO network .

Additionally AT sends an announce SDB ack. back to the 1 network and tunes to the EV DO network to receive the pending communication. The announce ack. is relayed back through the 1 network to GCS . The GSC can then grant the floor to AT e.g. allow AT to transmit on the half duplex connection . This status is then relayed to the EV DO network that then opens a traffic channel for communication from AT and forwards the status traffic channel information to AT which can then sound a tone or other audible and or visible indicator that communication to AT can begin on the EV DO network .

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. Referring to a flowchart illustrating at least one method according to embodiments of the invention is provided. For example the method can comprise sending a page on a first network informing a target device of a pending communication on a second network . The page further informs the target device that additional information will be sent on the first network. Then the additional information e.g. SDB can be sent on the first network . The additional information can contain setup information and or general information regarding the pending communication on the second network. As further illustrated in the target device may receive the page and then acknowledge the page to the first network . Receipt of the acknowledgement can be used to trigger sending the additional information because the acknowledgement can allow for confirmation of the location of the target device. Then the higher cost SDB in terms of system loading may only be sent to a specific sector having the target device.

Additionally the method can further include receiving the additional information at the target and acknowledging the additional information . Then the target device can access the second network using the additional information to receive the pending communication . The wireless infrastructure can receive the additional information acknowledgement on the first network and can begin communicating with the target on the second network . The communication can be between elements within the wireless infrastructure such as a streaming media server or operably couple to the wireless infrastructure. Those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configurations and sources illustrated. Since present day wireless and wired networks can communicate over the Internet and or other networks embodiments of the invention can include any device capable of performing the functionalities described herein.

For example a group communication server can be used to open a half duplex communication between an originator and a target by opening a traffic channel on the second network. Accordingly communication can be supported between an access terminal and other devices coupled to the Internet wireless networks private networks and the like. For example a half duplex VOIP connection can be supported between access terminals in a wireless to wireless and or wireless to wireline configuration. Generally any bandwidth suitable communication can be supported. For example using the high bandwidth available on EV DO streaming video and or audio and the like can be supported.

Further as discussed herein the hybrid solution can utilize multiple networks to exploit the benefits of each. For example the first network e.g. 1 may have a faster paging interval than the second network e.g. EV DO . Also the second network e.g. EV DO may have a higher bandwidth than the first network. However embodiments of the invention are not limited to these networks and or configurations.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the page in the hybrid communication systems discussed herein can be sent by a wireless infrastructure in communication with the target. Further the page can be generated in response to a connection request from an originator. The originator is not limited to another access terminal and can include for example a remote server group communication server an application server and a media server. However in a PTT environment the originator is typically an access terminal a wireless client device a wireline device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile terminal or the like operably coupled to a group communication server.

For example as previously discussed a push to talk PTT signal can be generated e.g. via PTT button at an originator sending a connection request to a group communication server. The group communication server can communicate with the first network to send the page. Additionally the connection request can be sent on the second network while the page can be sent on the first network.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for hybrid call setup in a wireless communication system in accordance with the methods algorithms steps and or functions disclosed herein. For example the method embodied in the computer readable media can include sending a page on a first network informing a target of a pending communication on a second network wherein the page informs the target additional information will be sent on the first network and sending the additional information on the first network wherein the additional information contains setup information regarding the pending communication on the second network. As used herein the page informing the target of additional information does not require that specific information be included in the page. For example a special service option may be identified and used in combination with logic on the target device to establish that the target device will receive additional information. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

