---

title: System and method for predicting personality traits using disc profiling and big five personality techniques
abstract: The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media for human personality prediction by analyzing information collected from different sources such as social media, call detail record (CDR), email etc. using DISC (dominance, inducement, submission, and compliance) profiling and Big Five personality techniques (openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism). Embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure are further capable of using a self-learning model which learns from user response to the prediction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449287&OS=09449287&RS=09449287
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09449287
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140610
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Filing Number 2151 CHE 2014 filed on Apr. 29 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to predicting human personality and more particularly to system and method for predicting human personality using disc profiling and big five personality techniques.

Existing systems for personality trait prediction from text does the prediction separately for different sources of data like social media call detail records email. There are systems available that discloses multiple ways of performing personality prediction from text. The detection of different personality from text has been used widely across multiple fields for example one of the main areas hiring process wherein personality prediction from text is currently used for determining

Personality prediction also helps to understand state of personality namely confused organized abstract or definitive. There are different techniques for predicting the personality from text. A person may typically have more than one personality trait but current systems are not able to identify which is the most prominent and less significant trait from the multiple personality traits identified.

The limitation of the current systems is how to correlate the information on the multiple personality traits that have been identified from the text from different sources of data. This limitation stems from the fact that the current systems do not go into deep levels like analysis of texts based on different topics and correlating them based on the prominent personality traits. Further current systems do not know how to automate the above process in an efficient manner according to need and for benefit of different businesses.

Therefore it would be desirable to have a system and a method for predicting the personality of the person by correlating the information obtained from different sources of data. Further it would be desirable to have a mechanism for learning from user response to the predicted personality

Disclosed herein is a method for predicting a personality of at least one human subject. The method includes receiving data associated with the at least one human subject from one or more sources clustering the data based on one or more topics of interest of the at least one human subject using one or more topic modeling algorithms predicting at least one high level personality trait associated with the at least one human subject by analyzing the clustered data the at least one high level personality trait being one of one or more high level personality traits defined by a first model and predicting at least one personality profile by classifying the at least one high level personality trait into one or more granular level personality traits defined by a second model the classifying being based on clustered data wherein at least one of the receiving data the clustering the data the predicting at least one first personality and the predicting at least one second personality is performed by a processor.

In an aspect of the present disclosure a system for predicting for predicting a personality of at least one human subject includes one or more hardware processors and a computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by the one or more hardware processors cause the one or more hardware processors to perform operations comprising receiving data associated with the at least one human subject from one or more sources clustering the data based on one or more topics of interest of the at least one human subject using one or more topic modeling algorithms predicting at least one high level personality trait associated with the at least one human subject by analyzing the clustered data the at least one high level personality trait being one of the one or more high level personality traits defined by a first model and predicting at least one personality profile by classifying the at least one high level personality trait into one or more granular level personality traits defined by a second model the classifying being based on clustered data.

In another aspect of the invention a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions for predicting a personality of at least one human subject that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising receiving data associated with the at least one human subject from one or more sources clustering the data based on one or more topics of interest of the at least one human subject using one or more topic modeling algorithms predicting at least one high level personality trait associated with the at least one human subject by analyzing the clustered data the at least one high level personality trait being one of the one or more high level personality traits defined by a first model and predicting at least one personality profile by classifying the at least one high level personality trait into one or more granular level personality traits defined by a second model the classifying being based on clustered data.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the following detailed description and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the present disclosure. The objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

As used herein reference to an element by the indefinite article a or an does not exclude the possibility that more than one of the element is present unless the contextually requires that there is one and only one of the elements. The indefinite article a or an thus usually means at least one. The disclosure of numerical ranges should be understood as referring to each discrete point within the range inclusive of endpoints unless otherwise noted.

As used herein the terms comprise comprises comprising includes including has having contains or containing or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a composition process method article system apparatus etc. that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed. The terms consist of consists of consisting of or any other variation thereof excludes any element step or ingredient etc. not specified. The term consist essentially of consists essentially of consisting essentially of or any other variation thereof permits the inclusion of elements steps or ingredients etc. not listed to the extent they do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic s of the claimed subject matter.

The architecture shown in may be implemented using one or more hardware processors not shown and a computer readable medium storing instructions not shown configuring the one or more hardware processors the one or more hardware processors and the computer readable medium may also form part of the system .

Referring to at step the data collection engine may collect data from a plurality of sources. The plurality of sources may be external sources and internal sources. External sources may include social media and mobile data stores like Twitter Facebook blogs forums whatsApp etc. Call details records CDR may be another external source of data. In some embodiments a new source may be added from a configuration file for example a new template can be added for social media listener. Internal sources may include gathering data from chat and emails.

Once the data may be collected by the data collection engine the data may go to the service layer that performs validation and filtration of the data step . The validation and filtration of data has been illustrated by way of flowchart in . illustrates an exemplary method of the validation and filtration of data in accordance with certain embodiments of the present disclosure. At step language identification may be performed by the language identification module by using some open source libraries designed for language identification. There are numerous such libraries and some of them are specialized for latin origin languages some are for Indian languages and pictorial based languages.

At step data cleaning and data filtration operation may be performed on the data by the data filter and cleaning module . The process of data cleaning may be a template based cleaning process as there are certain variation in data representation and format. For example symbol has a different meaning in tweet as compared to symbol in email. Because of this there may be a great need to have different type of filtration template. Also in terms of personality detection use of certain characters has different meaning and represent different characteristic of any personality. Also in case of tweet and has got special meaning where as it may not necessarily true for blog and new sites. Based on the source of data special characters from the text may be removed. So we will have customized filter based on the source of data. The process of data filtration may be done by using machine learning based classifier which is trained based on how we define business and non business data. For example if this engine may be used to know whether a user is an influential personality of a particular brand then all the data which doesn t belong to that brand and competitor brand may be removed in analysis.

At step the data may undergo through rule based segmentation. There may be a great impact of demography culture society and gender to some extent in building the personality of a person. For gender detection if the source of data is email then gender detection may be straight forward as the email server contains user profile with full name address gender etc. but for the cases when it is not known a gender detection dictionary algorithm based on name may be used.

At step all the preprocessed data may be made ready in the format either document column based to be loaded into the storage engine which acts as data store with additional detected information in this step like demography gender etc. . . . . The storage engine may work as the repository store of all the collected and processed data both at intermediate and final state.

For optimization and faster access the storage engine may be designed as a hybrid store of both SQL and No SQL based databases. SQL may work as meta store of data for faster access and No SQL may work as document store of all the collected and processed data.

At step the data stored in the storage engine may be accessed and may go through segmentation comprising clustering and then correlation. It may be found out what all are the topic on which the processed data may be talking about. It may comprise of an advanced feature of configuring profiles and demographics and building multiple hierarchical clusters of similar topics. For example there may be clusters based on i pad i phone. Clustering of the processed data may be performed by the topic modeler .

Every human may pose different types of personality based on his her knowledge in particular section area. A person who is more into say automobile may understand it better and might poses a character of being more careful in terms of car servicing which is a sign of Conscientiousness characteristics as per Big Five model. There could also be a case where a person talks a lot about cars and is in day in and out into it but is not very careful about it which gives the degree of conscientiousness characteristics. Thus there is a great need to know the characteristics possessed by an individual in a particular category. A person with less degree of conscientiousness in automobile is more likely take less care of his her car and might run into too many insurance claims. It also helps to know whether an individual is Influential among community about car which opens new door for automobile providers to make him her as the brand ambassador on say twitter and expand business. The Topic Modeler internally uses topic modeling algorithms and build clusters around multiple topics of interest of an individual.

Thereafter the correlation engine may find relationship between multiple people based on topic of interest physiographic distribution gender difference and demographic distribution. This correlation engine may create a collaborative filter matrix of all the people whose interest are of similar kind lives in same region share the same gender and have the same personality traits. The collaborative filter matrix may be stored in the storage engine . The correlation engine may help the person of interest module to search similar kind of people better. So let us say we are looking for a person who is influential in nature and lives in say West Coast and is male then this system will quickly refer to the collaborative filter matrix been built by the correlation engine and will pass on the result of person of interest module . This may optimize the search.

At step personality prediction may be performed. The personality prediction has been illustrated by way of flowchart in . illustrates an exemplary method of the personality prediction using DISC profiling and the big five techniques in accordance with certain embodiments of the present disclosure. The personality prediction may be done without having any question and answer kind of session with the user. The personality prediction engine may generate knowledge like what is the personality trait of human subject in different section of topic. It is highly possible that a human subject possess steadiness in personality in some topic but could be dominating in some other section. The friend circle analysis is also done in this section to know more about the person and also the profiling of friends is done to know what kind of circle he she is in. This will help to fill in hidden gaps while predicting personality traits.

Big Five Analyzer model At step the text posted by the human subject in particular topic is analyzed using the Big Five factors Openness Conscientiousness Extraversion Agreeableness and Neuroticism . This model is used to find out the high level trait possessed by the human subject by analyzing the text posted on a topic. This model is used to find out whether 

DISC Profiler model At step in the DISC Profiler model the DISC Dominance Inducement Submission and Compliance traits are used for analyzing the data. This model is used to find out the granular level personality traits possessed by the human subject. From the text posted by the user on a particular topic across different social media mobile apps CDR and emails there are always certain patterns possessed by person based on whatever quadrant of DISC he she belongs to. For example the person with Dominance characteristics will always try to talk about oneself with addition pattern stating that he she is not satisfied by the people around him her. So from the text the Profiler module will extract information on how many times the user talks about oneself and how frequently he she points out problems as compared to talking good things about it. This may be used to decide whether a person is of D characteristics then what is the percentage of it. Similarly the person with Compliance characteristics will tend to find out small small things out of the information. She he may deep dive in a particular topic and will basically point out problems. The DISC profiler module may be the rules that will be used for identifying the traits possessed by different kind of personality. The rules would be run on the user data information to build DISC personality profile by this model.

At step the scoring engine gives scores for the personality trait to a given topic. A person might be highly attached to certain topic whereas least bothered about some of the other things. Based on the total data set talking about personality trait on a particular topic the scoring engine may use certain specific emotion attached to it and then gives score to the personality trait. The emotion detection may be done by using a technique of how frequently the person talks about a certain topic and what is the sentiment associated to it. The sentiment detection may be done using contextual based linguistic algorithms. For e.g. if the person possess a quality of openness to experience to certain topic as per big five analyzer model then it is determined to what percentage he she is open to experience new things. Every person has some percentage of personality traits from all different dimensions quadrants of DISC profiler model . This scoring engine may build the scoring of the personality trait like if a person is dominating in nature then what is the percentage of that quality and so on.

Referring to at step predictions are rendered by ranking done based on multi correlation approach. User performs an advance personality based search using the search module in the Person of Interest module . The search is performed based on linguistic based search which is done on the personality traits and score identified in Step and available in the storage engine . The user can also do the search for the right kind of personality in an organized way using the configurations details provided in the pooling bench . After the search is performed by the searching module and it is provided to the ranking module before rendering the search results to the user. The ranking module does the ordering of the search results by using a personality trait based ranking algorithm and also determines confidence level by marking some of the result with in the scale of 1 5 distinguished by color codes like green yellow red etc.

At step user response to prediction is monitored and studied using the self learning techniques. When the user does a search using the person of interest module the self learning engine learns from the user response to the search result. The self learning engine monitors and studies the pattern in which the user accesses the search results. That is the self learning engine learns from the user clicks on search page and stores the feedback as for what all topics profiles demography and gender the system is not giving the optimum result. The self learning Engine then normalizes the score associated with the personality trait to optimize the predictions based on the user response. After this the normalized score is stored back to the Storage Engine.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750 IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 518 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

