---

title: Optically-actuated mechanical devices
abstract: According to embodiments, an optically-actuated mechanical device comprises at least one deformable section formed of: an element including an intrinsic stress differential or gradient, the stress tending to urge deformation of one portion relative to another portion; and an optically-sensitive material which is configured to (i) initially prevent deformation of the device, and (ii) upon sufficient heating by absorbing optical energy allows the element to deform. The devices may be incorporated into various devices and apparatuses for select, non-contact actuation using only optical energy, for example, via light, from one or more lasers. Methods for fabricating and actuating such devices are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09272426&OS=09272426&RS=09272426
owner: The Uniteed States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09272426
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140625
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 839 572 filed on Jun. 26 2013 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government. Funding of research underlying the innovative technology of this invention came at least in part from Contract No. W911NF 09 2 0065.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to micro mechanical actuator devices such as MEMS and more particularly to optically actuated mechanical devices and the actuation thereof.

Micro electrical mechanical systems MEMS have been incorporated into many systems for various civilian and military applications. Many MEMS actuators use direct electrical pneumatic or fluidic actuation. These direct actuation means however require large bulky modules which can be difficult to integrate within micro systems such as batteries or power supplies. Photovoltaic cells are used for optical to electrical energy conversion. However voltage outputs are typically low and overall photovoltaic optical to electrical conversion efficiencies are typically very low e.g. 10 up to 22 for specific wavelengths and over 40 for cooled multi junction commercial research cells .

Electromagnetic power transfer via radio frequency RF energy has been used an alternative to wires pneumatic lines or other tethers to the system. But these systems have shown low efficiency of RF power transfer due to the small sized antennas which must be with micro systems. Additionally thermal or chemical activation mechanisms also have been proposed as alternatives but these have not been found to be readily controlled in a practical manner.

Researchers have demonstrated direct optical to mechanical wireless actuation schemes. For example some have used polymer carbon nanotube CNT composites which exploit the absorption characteristics of CNTs to cause a conformal change and significant strain therein as a result of a thermal expansion coefficient mismatch. Polarized light has been used to interact with liquid crystal elastomeric films which exhibit localized cross linking or other phase changes leading to mechanical shrinkage and which can be reversed by irradiating with light of a different wavelength. Non polarized light has also been shown to cause localized shrinkage of shape memory polymers such as pre stressed polystyrene through patterning of an optically absorbing material. And selective laser ablation of indium tin oxide films has been used to form interesting folded structures controlled by laser positioning and fluence.

However each of these conventional examples of optical actuation may be characterized as requiring either high irradiance levels e.g. 1 W cm long actuation times 10 s to 100 s of seconds bulk films and or materials which are not readily amenable to lithographic patterning and micro fabrication.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to optically actuated mechanical devices and actuation thereof. According to embodiments an optically actuated mechanical device comprises at least one deformable section formed of an element including an intrinsic stress differential or gradient the stress tending to urge deformation of one portion relative to another portion and an optically sensitive material which is configured to i initially prevent deformation of the device and ii upon sufficient heating by absorbing optical energy allows the element to deform. The element may be comprised of a single layer having a surface treatment to create residual stress in the element. Alternatively the element may be comprised of a multilayer structure formed of at least two layers having different levels of residual stress to create residual stress in the element.

In some instances the optically sensitive material comprises 1 an optically sensitive polymer which by absorbing optical energy softens and or 2 a thermally sensitive shape memory alloy SMA which by absorbing optical energy heats above its transition temperature causing it to deform. The optically sensitive polymer is configured to soften with light of a predetermined wavelength. For example the SMA may comprise a Nitinol alloy. Upon cooling the optically sensitive material maintains its configuration.

The devices may further include an optically absorbing material which by absorbing optical energy heats and conductively transfers heat to a thermally sensitive material. For example the optically absorbing material may comprise an optical band pass filter configured to selectively absorb a specific wavelength. In other implementations the devices may further comprise one or more rigid elements to prevent deformation of the device where provided. Some embodiments of the optically actuated mechanical device may comprise both 1 an optically sensitive polymer which by absorbing optical energy softens and 2 a thermally sensitive shape memory alloy SMA which by absorbing optical energy heats above its transition temperature causing it to deform. The optically sensitive polymer is configured to absorb optical energy and softens thus permitting the device to deform. And the SMA alloy is configured to absorb optical energy causing to device to transition back to its initial state. For some applications the devices might further include a substrate which is at least partially releasable and once released permits the element to deform.

The devices may have a plurality of optically absorbing materials which are configured to absorb light at different wavelengths. Different lights sources can be provided for such purpose. Depending of their desired configuration optically actuated mechanical devices can be fabricated which enables either non reversible or reversible mechanical actuation.

The optically actuated mechanical can be included in a micro gripper apparatus having at least one deformable arm which includes an optically actuated mechanical device. For example the micro gripper apparatus may comprise a body portion and a plurality of arms provided in a circular arrangement about the body. Also the optically actuated mechanical devices can be included in a switch. The switch may be an electrical switch configured to open close a circuit or a mechanical switch configured to rupture a capsule for example.

Methods for fabricating and actuating the devices are also disclosed. According to embodiments a method for fabricating one or more optically actuated mechanical device may comprises depositing material forming one or more element of the one or more device on a substrate patterning to define rigid sections and deformable sections of the one or more device applying optically sensitive material at a least the deformable sections of the one or more devices and at least partially releasing the one or more devices from the substrate. And according to embodiments a method for actuating an optically actuated mechanical device comprises applying optical energy to the device to actuate the device. The optical energy has a wavelength between about 1.4 and 1.8 m i.e. eye safe wavelengths in short wavelength infrared SWIR regime . In other instances the optical energy might have a wavelength between about 450 and 680 nm or even other wavelengths.

Various optically actuated mechanical devices are described which are capable of providing mechanical actuation without the need of any attached batteries wires or other tethers. Embodiments of the invention generally address the need to develop new wireless power transfer and new actuation schemes for micro systems such as MEMS.

In general the optically actuated mechanical devices are configured to be actuated using optical energy. The optical energy includes electromagnetic radiation or light in the optical spectra which generally include various spectra and sub bands within ultraviolet UV visible VIS and or infrared IR light.

The devices include one or more deformable sections which permit deformation of the device in some way an element effecting that deformation and optically sensitive material which when optically activated by absorbing optical energy enables the deformation.

Upon illumination of the optically sensitive material e.g. with light of a specific intensity and or wavelength optical energy is absorbed by that material causing it to thermally heat up. This is turn enables the material to permit deformation. The deformation can include a change in size and or shape of one or more portions of the device with respect to other portions of the device via movement. Such movement may include but is not limited to rotational DOFs such as bending pivoting flexing folding rotating twisting or any combination thereof. This may include one or more sections configured as a hinges or to otherwise provide hinge like motion such as a flexure mechanism. Deformation may include both elastic and inelastic e.g. plastic deformation depending on the design and configuration of the device. Although in the case of reversible actuation elastic non permanent deformation may be preferable.

To permit deformation of the device one or more deformable sections may be included in the device. The deformable sections are adapted to provide a desired level of deformation. For example various hinge structures can be fabricated to enable a desired degree of freedoms DOFs permissible range of possible deformation such as angular range initial starting point for deformation ending point for deformation etc. It is also possible to design the hinge structure to have a pre determined stress strain characteristic to provide desired flexibility and or resiliency. A simple hinge structure may permit 1 DOF deformation such as bending whereas a more complex hinge structure can permit greater DOFs. Parameters such as stiffness the angular extent of bending start and stop points etc. may be tailored as desired.

In order to effect deformation of the device via the hinge structure the optically actuated mechanical devices include one or more elements effecting that deformation. The element can be judiciously fabricated to include an intrinsic stress differential or gradient with the stress tending to urge deformation of a hinge section.

The optically actuated mechanical devices further include one of more optically sensitive materials. As mentioned above the optically sensitive material absorbs electromagnetic radiation or light in the optical spectra so as to heat and soften. In some embodiment optically sensitive material may include 1 optically sensitive polymer which soften when they absorb light and or 2 optically sensitive shape memory alloy SMA which when heated above its transition temperature causing a conformal change in its shape. Such material and its placement are configured to i initially prevent deformation of the pre stressed element and ii upon sufficient heating by optical absorption mechanically soften so as to allow the stressed element to deform the device. Light can provided by an optical energy source such as a laser light emitting diode LED lamp or any other source of light which can be meet the requisite intensity level for heating and actuation. This can include focusing and or collimation.

The optical intensity which may be needed to achieve activation of the optically actuated mechanical devices in some embodiments may be as low 0.6 W cm and at typical actuation times of less than about 1 second. Light in the so called eye safe wavelengths in short wavelength infrared SWIR regime particularly 1.4 to 3.0 m is desirable for actuation because these wavelengths pass through the cornea and lens and do not focus on the more sensitive retina. In other instances the optical energy has a wavelength between about 450 and 680 nm. But it should be appreciated that other devices may be configured to be activated with other wavelengths of optical energy.

More controlled actuation can be achieved via an optical absorber material in some embodiments. Like the optically sensitive material the optical absorber material absorbs optical energy. Upon heating it can transfer heat to the optically sensitive material. In some embodiments the optical absorber material may form a band pass filter or notch filter.

Embodiments of the present invention may be configured for use in micro systems and or for micrometer scale applications such as MEMS having small features i.e. on the order of about 10meters. In actuality many micro systems may have linear dimensions which do not exceed a few millimeters on any given side. Most micro systems functions include some form of mechanical actuation whether that mechanical actuation is to provide mobility to the system to provide some mechanical function to the system itself or to simply control the flow of a limited electrical power budget using mechanical switches. By integrating lower power optical actuation materials and methods into a micro fabricated device or system the novel optically actuated mechanical devices can be applied more generally to micro systems which are arbitrarily small in size.

By using lithographically patterning techniques to fabricate the micro meter scale devices this allows many devices to be fabricated in parallel at low cost. One such application is a micro gripper apparatus. Of course others sized devices whether larger or smaller are certainly possible as fabrication techniques may enable.

For exemplary purposes the device is depicted as a simple beam structure with one hinge section and a pair of rigid sections A B. The hinge section can be fabricated as a unitary or multilayered structure with an internal stress differential or gradient. As illustrated the hinge section is bounded by the rigid sections A B which contain much thicker structural layers and which remain relatively rigid due to a well known relationship between beam stiffness and layer thickness.

In some embodiments the hinge section is formed of flexible material which enables deformation. The flexible material may include other elements of the device such as the pre stressed element as shown. The rigid sections prohibit deformation of the flexible element and thus by their configuration only allow a portion of the flexible materials to deform. While a pair of rigid sections A B is shown in the figures it will be appreciated that this configuration is not limitation and the other configurations of rigid portions are contemplated. Although in other embodiments a separate hinge element may be provided.

The pre stressed element includes an intrinsic stress differential or gradient such that the stress tends to urge deformation of the hinge portion . It may be fabricated as a unitary or multilayered structure as further discussed below with respect to . To impart a stress differential or gradient into the pre stressed element multiple ways are possible. In the case of a unitary pre stressed element it might be formed of a single material with deposition conditions varied such that different levels of residual stress result between the top and bottom of the film. For larger scale applications surface treatments such as shot penning burnishing and annealing might be used to impart different stress levels in the top and bottom surfaces of the element . Typical stress levels which may be found in the element may be in the range of 100 1000 MPa for example.

Using a bi layer or multi layered stack for the pre stressed element the level of residual stress which varies between the bottom of the multilayer stack and the top or between one side and the other within the beam cross section. The residual stress may be tensile on one side and neutral on the other compressive on one side and neutral on the other or tensile on one side and compressive on the other. As shown the pre stressed element is a bi layer structure formed of disparate thin film layers A B. The films may be metal or non metals. The disparate thin film layers are applied upon one another can be used to form a stress differential or gradient formed with the element . The thin film layers A B may be deposited by thermal evaporation or sputtering for example The element may be designed according to known design equations for structures with internal stress such as disclosed by G. P. Nikishkov Curvature estimation for multilayer hinged structures with initial strains . vol. 94 no. 8 pp. 5333 5336 2003 for instance.

The optically sensitive material at least partially covers the pre stressed element . It is configured to i maintain the stress in the pre stressed element to prevent deformation and ii upon sufficient heating by optical energy mechanically softens after passing through a thermal transition state e.g. glass transition and allows the pre stressed element to deform thus deforming the device .

The material may contain be formed of or include optical absorbing material which designed to efficiently absorb light across a spectrum or at a particular wavelength of light. In some embodiments the optically sensitive material may be an optically absorbing thermo plastic e.g. thermo softening polymer which becomes pliable or deformable upon absorbing optical energy. One set of material that is of particular interest are photoresists.

The thermo polymer and optical energy provided may be judiciously tailored to control deformation of the device at a pre determined wavelength or range thereof. The material may have a narrow wavelength of which it optically absorbs light. By using a polymer which softens at a relatively low temperature such as 43 C. the amount of optical energy which must be absorbed can be minimized. One example of a thermo polymer which softens at 43 C. is SC 1827 photoresist Microchem Corp. Newton Mass. which absorbs most strongly at a wavelength of about 365 nm for use with i line photolithographic equipment. Another example is a 5 1 by volume mixture of SC 1805 and SC 1813 Microchem which softens below 37 C. E. Gultepe J. S. Randhawa S. Kadam S. Yamanaka F. M. Selaru E. J. Shin A. N. Kalloo and D. H. Gracias Biopsy with thermally responsive untethered microtools vol. 25 no. 4 pp. 514 519 2013 and also absorbs most strongly at a wavelength of about 365 nm. It is noted that SC 1827 SC 1805 and SC 1813 are specific product names given to a family of positive photoresist materials which are generally composed of 65 86 propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate 10 30 cresol novolak resin and 1 10 Diazo Photoactive Compound.

Other color filter materials which transmit certain wavelengths and thus could be used together to absorb a specific wavelengths might be used which do not go through a thermal transition phase rather they cross link and harden as the temperature increases. Possible materials include negative tone photoresists such as NR5 8000 Futurrex Franklin N.J. composed of 55 65 cyclohexanone and 30 40 resins and 5 100 photosensitizers and which absorbs most strongly at a wavelength of 365 nm. Other examples include the pigmented photoresists from the Fujifilm Color Mosaic product line composed of 30 65 1 Methoxy 2 propanol acetate 0 30 cyclohexanone 15 25 Ethyl 3 ethoxyprorionate 0 20 1 Methoxy 2 propanol 1 10 Green pigment 1 10 blue pigment and 1 10 of a multifunctional acrylic monomer. These materials may be selectively combined and or engineered to transmit at one of the three primary light colors 450 nm 532 nm or 650 nm and absorb at all other wavelengths in the visible spectrum. Also other materials which soften at different wavelengths are believed to be available for acquiring or otherwise exist which may be used the specific wavelengths at which they soften may be publicly reported and or determinable through routine experimentation.

If different optically sensitive materials are used in a device it may be possible to activate a certain hinge structure of the device with one wavelength of light and another different hinge structure with another wavelength of light.

Where possible alike elements from the above described embodiments have been shown with the same reference numerals and will not be described again below.

While a pair of optical absorber material A B over the rigid sections A B is shown covered by the optically sensitive material it will be appreciated that this configuration is not a limitation and that other configurations are contemplated. For example in other embodiments the optically sensitive material may be covered partially or fully by the optical absorber material in which the optically sensitive material is optically transparent to light of wavelength which can be absorbed by the optically sensitive material . The reverse configuration is also possible.

The optical absorber material may function as a rigid material itself such as a pigmented photoresist and therefore may be patterned over the rigid sections A B as shown. The material may also cover the flexible hinge sections as well and any of the previously described materials or layers may function as the optical absorber including the thermally sensitive polymer the rigid section or hinge section materials. In any case upon illumination optical energy is absorbed by the optical absorber layer heating the structure. The thermally sensitive polymer mechanically softens allowing the stress differential to within the hinge section to bend. The use of one or more patterned optically absorber materials may provide band pass filter materials to create wavelength specific optical absorbers or notch filters.

Advantageously all elements of the devices and can be lithographically patterned allowing the apparatus to be used in micrometer or nanometer scale applications and allowing many copies of the apparatus to be fabricated in parallel at low cost.

Non metallic materials may also be used for form a multilayer element. For example bilayer or multilayer structures could also be fabricated from silicon monoxide SiO and or silicon dioxide SiO .

In some embodiments as shown in the element might be formed of a single layer of material with deposition conditions varied such that different levels of residual stress result between the top and or bottom surfaces of the material For example an evaporation process using argon Ar ion bombardment to deposit nickel Ni can be used to produce residual stresses approaching 0.5 GPa which may be either tensile or compressive depending on the process conditions may be used.

Where possible alike elements from the above described embodiments have been shown with the same reference numerals and will not be described again. The device may be fabricated upon a releasable substrate . It may be partially or fully releasable. Assuming the substrate partially released once the movable part of the structure is released the remaining substrate can be used a handle to hold on to the hinge so it can be used if and where desired.

The device with pre stressed element includes an internal stress differential or gradient. It may be fabricated from one or more layers as discussed above. Additionally the device includes a shape memory alloy SMA which allows reversible for actuation. The pres stressed element and the SMA may be fabricated in a multilayered structure with at one layer being a pre stressed element and at least one layer being a SMA . The pre stressed element may be fabricated from one or more layers as discussed above. The order of the layers of the multilayered may not be critical and may be reversed in some embodiments. Advantageously all elements of the device can be lithographically patterned allowing the apparatus to be used in micrometer or nanometer scale applications and allowing many copies of the apparatus to be fabricated in parallel at low cost.

Nitinol is one well known type of SMA which may be used in some implementations. Nitinol is a trade name for an alloy of nickel and titanium typically composed of approximately 50 to 51 nickel by atomic percent app. 55 to 56 weight percent . Nitinol s shape memory properties are derived from a reversible solid state phase transformation between two different crystal phases. At high temperatures nitinol assumes a cubic crystal structure referred to as austenite whereas at low temperatures nitinol transforms to a monoclinic crystal structure known as martensite. Nitinol s martensite crystal structure has the ability to undergo limited deformation app. 6 8 without permanent deformation. When the martensite is reverted to austenite by heating the original austenitic structure and thus the SMA s shape is restored. The temperature at which austenite transforms to martensite is generally referred to as the transformation temperature. The transition temperature of the alloy can be tailored to transitions between about 25 and 70 C. depending on the alloy composition for instance. Since the SMA transition temperature occurs at a relatively low temperature the amount of optical energy which must be absorbed for the transition may be minimized. To fix the original flat shape of the Nitinol the alloy must be held in position and annealed to a temperature of about 500 550 C. It is noted that shape memory has also been shown for instance in gold cadmium and copper brass alloys and these might alloys could also potentially be used.

SMAs are thermally sensitive materials. In general heat needed to cause bending in a SMA can come not only by absorbing light but also from other forms of heat such as joule heating or heat generated by a chemical reaction. However in the scope of this invention absorption of optical energy is primarily being utilized for heating the SMA for bending. And this is what is meant by optically sensitive for this material.

Upon release of the external apparatus or substrate the stress gradient formed by the pre stressed element bend the structure at the hinge section in a direction determined by stress gradient into state II. The depicted bending could also be caused by any other integrated or external force and would not necessarily have to come from internal stress.

Upon illumination optical energy is absorbed by the optical absorber layer heating the SMA above its transition temperature the SMA overcomes the residual stress differential gradient or other integrated or external force to return the SMA to a flat annealed state III. Upon cooling the SMA will maintain this configuration.

Metals are generally conductive and have no electronic bandgap they may absorb light across all spectra. Thus it is the intensity of optical energy rather than the specific wavelength of light which may be of primary importance for a metallic SMA .

Some initial optical heating of the optically sensitive material at wavelength cause the device to go from state I to state II. So long as the device is designed such the force applied by the stress layer is greater than the resistance of the SMA to bending the device will bend when the optically sensitive material softens. This would be similar to what is shown in .

And if the device is designed so that the transition force of the SMA when rebounding to its initial flat shape by absorbing light of wavelength is greater than that of both the optically sensitive material and pre stressed element it will bent back to a straightened state III. This embodiment could provide more controlled bending of the hinge for opening and closing.

This arrangement is also more stable because the optically sensitive material helps stabilize the two states II and III. If the dynamics of heating and cooling are controlled one could even build a bi stable switch such that the optically sensitive material freezes the structure of the device in the flat state III but softens just enough when reheated to allow it to bend back to the bent state II. For instance one wavelength closes the hinge and another wavelength opens it.

The aforementioned embodiments may be fabricated into complex actuator devices as further described. These devices may include micro grippers which involve circular arrangements of actuator segments designed to close in on and grip an object positioned near the center of the circular arrangement.

Examples of micro grippers which are actuated by different means other than optical energy have been previously disclosed by Bassik N. et al. 2010 Enzymatically triggered actuation of miniaturized tools 132 46 16314 16317 Leong T. G. et al. 2009 Tetherless thermobiochemically actuated microgrippers 106 3 703 708 and Randhawa J. S. et al. Pick and place using chemically actuated microgrippers 2008 Dec. 24 130 51 17238 9 for example. Micro gippers can be used for micro scale surgical applications such a clamp or suture. Moreover micro gripper devices and apparatuses utilizing the apparatus may be used to attach small parts such as micro transponders to fibers textiles and insects. They also can be configured to mechanically latch onto an object such as another device cell or textured surface. Micro gripper apparatuses may be produced having similar hinged capability but configured to be actuated with optical energy according to embodiments of the present invention.

As will be appreciated the micro gripper arm is an optically actuated mechanical device with the pre stressed element and optically sensitive material enabling actuation. The micro gripper arms can be individually activated or actuated together for example by illuminating it with light having a wavelength which the optically sensitive material is sensitive to and will optically absorb. Initially the micro gripper is fabricated to be generally planar but upon actuation the micro gripper arms bend away from the plane of the body .

In step A on a substrate a sacrificial a 250 nm Cu layer is thermally evaporated sacrificial layer a 20 nm Ti adhesion layer and followed with an evaporated multilayer thin film stack of Cr and Au to provide the pre stressed element of desired residual stress. In one example the multilayer thin film stack consisted of 77 nm of Cr and 300 nm of Au. These layers can be patterned by liftoff in a suitable solvent such as acetone .

Then in step B photolithography was used to define rigid section areas and electro deposition to fill these areas with a 4 m thick layer of Au. In step C a 3 m thick Shipley 1827 photoresist Microchem is patterned over the top of each hinge. Finally in step D the sacrificial layer is dissolved in ferric chloride FeCl after the micro gripper apparatusess are collected and dried. Alternatively a vapor phase such as xenon difluoride XeF may be used to release the devices instead of the liquid phase FeCl.

The actuation behavior of the hinges was characterized by the inventors as a function of laser irradiation by placing different neutral density filters in the path of a 532 nm green laser coupling that beam into a 400 m core 0.37 NA optical fiber and focusing the light exiting the fiber with a 5 mm diameter 0.243 NA lens. Holding this lens at an angle between the test sample and a long working distance microscope objective resulted in a 1.8 mmelliptical laser spot focused on the sample. The total beam power was measured exiting the fiber and lens using a Newport photodetector 818 UV and power meter 1916 C . A high speed video camera enabled measurement of actuation time for each irradiance level.

Three laser irradiance regimes were observed. These are shown in the plot of . There was a threshold irradiance in this particular experiment of 680 mW cm below which no folding occurred presumably due to insufficient heating of the device. At intermediate irradiance between 680 mW cmand 1000 mW cm a small decrease led to significantly slower folding times likely due to heat loss via convection and conduction to the surrounding air as well as conduction to any substrate below. And at larger irradiance an inverse relationship was observed between the time to close and irradiance.

To understand these regimes the inventors analytically and numerically modeled heat loss from the micro gripper due to conduction into a surrounding air domain. Although each micro gripper apparatus was initially planar within a short distance from the microgripper surface heat loss into the surrounding air rapidly approached that of a point source in spherical coordinates. The micro gripper surface was approximated from which heat was lost as a sphere with equivalent surface area to obtain a solution for the steady state temperature rise at the surface T 

Here k is the thermal conductivity of air lis the optical power per unit area absorbed by the micro gripper R is the micro gripper radius and fand fare area fill factors relating the actual area of optical power absorption and loss respectively to the area of a disk of radius R. The transient temperature response was numerically calculated using a two dimensional axisymmetric model in ANSYS v13 for a variety of micro gripper sizes and optical power levels and consistently found calculated steady state micro gripper surface temperature changes to be within 7.3 of those predicted by equation 1 .

Each transient solution closely followed the exponential relationship T T 1 e with a time constant depending primarily on micro gripper size. We obtained an expression for the time to close tin terms of the closing temperature rise Tby rearranging the exponential relationship expressing the resulting natural logarithm as a Taylor series expansion dropping all higher order terms for T

Assuming that Iis directly proportional to I equation 2 correctly predicts the 1 Ibehavior observed at higher laser irradiances. The inventors also used the empirical power law fit for the 532 nm source in the assumption that Iwas precisely 15 of the applied irradiance a numerically calculated value for and equation 2 to calculate an average Tof 46 C. This result corresponds to an average closing temperature of 69 C. for an initial room temperature of 23 C. which is consistent with past observations of micro gripper closure between 40 and 95 C. Leong et al. 2009 . Although more accurate calculations would require a more detailed knowledge of the relationship between I and I and validation with actual measured values for T the approximated equations 1 and 2 are useful to estimate folding temperatures and times in different environments.

A useful result from equation 2 is the prediction of the lower limit of operation or the lowest intensity Iat which actuation can be expected. For the six point folding star depicted in covered with an optical absorber layer f f 0.37 and from equation 1 I 1.2 mW cm K T R for operation in air. For T T 20 C. and a micro gripper diameter of 1.4 mm the minimum irradiance predicted is 343 mW cm. Although this intensity level is not below the 1 mW cmthreshold for eye safe optical sources in the visible wavelength regime it is below the eye safe threshold for infrared light sources above 1500 nm in wavelength. The inventors have fabricated micro gripper apparatuses with optical absorber materials designed to absorb nearly 100 of any incident infrared light which will be able to operate in an eye safe manner. Tests with a green 532 nm wavelength absorber resulted in actuation from irradiance levels as low as 465 mW cm which will be well under eye safe limits for a 1500 nm laser source.

Micro grippers and other devices can be fabricated with optical absorber layers designed to absorb specific wavelengths of light. This approach is described with reference to . Most optical filter materials are band pass filters which pass light of a particular wavelength and block others.

Given a set of n band pass filter materials designed to pass light at n distinct wavelengths over a certain wavelength range e.g. the visible range the factor on fin equation 1 and therefore the factor on temperature rise at all undesired actuation wavelengths will be n 2 n 1 . Thus with three distinct filter materials the temperature rise at all wavelengths other than the desired actuation wavelength is 0.5. The temperature rise at the desired actuation wavelength remains at 100 so the difference is large. However with four distinct filters the factor is 0.67. With five the factor is 0.75. Clearly as the number of filter materials increases the difference between apparatus temperature rise at the desired actuation wavelength and the rise at all other wavelengths becomes smaller which could be a disadvantage. But this approach this approach does allow the use of readily available band pass filter materials to easily create wavelength specific notch filters with sets of three four or five.

One example of a set of lithographically patternable color filter materials is the Color Mosaic line of products from Fujifilm Electronic Materials. Three measured transmittance curves for blue green and red filter materials are shown in .

As will be appreciated the micro gripper arm is an optically actuated mechanical device with the pre stressed element and optically sensitive material enabling actuation. The micro gripper arms can be individually activated or actuated together for example by illuminating it with light having a wavelength which the optically sensitive material is sensitive to and will optically absorb. Initially the micro gripper is fabricated to be generally planar but upon actuation the micro gripper arms bend away from the plane of the body . In addition an absorber layer sites with the patterned blue green filter arrangement intended to specifically passes blue and green light and absorbs red light is provided.

Another major advantage of optically triggered actuation is the high precision achieved by spatial control over folding. By directing an optical source e.g. a laser beam at individual hinge sections it is possible to sequentially fold structures as might be required in reconfigurable systems or programmable matter such as described by Hawkes E. et al. 2010 Programmable matter by folding 107 28 12441 12445 for example.

The nested structures shown may be used to provide spatially sequestered molecules cells or chemicals within a single package such as would be required in cascading reactions. Structures with different shapes pores or sensors or other electrical circuits could be pre patterned using basic lithographic techniques which could then be assembled into complex nested devices. Metallic structures function as micro Faraday cages and could be used to protect for instance highly sensitive electromagnetic devices from noisy environments.

Unlike the fully released free standing structures previously described substrate mounted optically actuated structures may also be formed.

The device could be used as the switch such as to modulate pixels of a display device between pre defined reflection shuttering or transmission states of light in a battery free wireless manner. And in yet another embodiment the micro gripper arms of the device could be configured to curl and rupture a substrate mounted capsule or other sealed container for example containing microencapsulated chemiluminescent particles. The device may be used to provide mobility to a microrobotic platform. The apparatus might alternatively be used as an electrical switch to efficiently and wirelessly turn on or off a circuit in an untethered microdevice.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

All patents patent applications articles and other references mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

