---

title: Secure cardless cash withdrawal
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for secure cardless cash withdrawal are provided. A computer-implemented method may include identifying one or more cash machines near a computing device of a user, receiving a cash request from the computing device, generating a one-time authorization code on a secure server for the cash request when the computing device is detected by a sensor of a selected cash machine, providing the one-time authorization code to the computing device for display to the user when the computing device is detected within a distance allowing the user to operate the cash machine, validating a user-provided code received from the selected cash machine in view of the one-time authorization code, instructing the selected cash machine to distribute the requested cash when the user-provided code is validated, and invalidating the one-time authorization code when the cash request is completed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536240&OS=09536240&RS=09536240
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09536240
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140721
---
The present invention generally relates to financial services and more particularly to secure cash withdrawal without the use of a card.

A cash machine generally refers to an electronic computing device that allows users of a financial institution to perform financial transactions e.g. cash deposits withdrawals without assistance of another person. In most modern cash machines a user is identified by an inserted plastic card with a magnetic strip or a plastic smart card with a unique card number and security information. Authentication is usually provided with a reusable personal identification number PIN associated with a user s financial account.

In recent years new high tech methods of fraud have been used to steal card information from users. For example in card skimming criminals install a magnetic card reader over a cash machine card slot and use a wireless surveillance camera modified digital camera or false PIN keypad to capture a user s PIN. Criminals then create a cloned card using the stolen data and use captured PIN information to carry out fraudulent cash withdrawals.

Further in many situations a merchant may not provide a cash machine a merchant may only accept cash payments a cash machine may be broken or without sufficient cash a user may not trust that an available cash machine is secure or a user may not have access to a card left in a forgotten a purse or wallet.

Accordingly improved methods of authentication can aid in the prevention of fraudulent activity and provide greater convenience to users of cash machines.

Systems methods and computer program products for providing secure cardless cash withdrawal are disclosed. Examples of the present disclosure allow a user to withdraw cash from a financial account at a cash machine without use of a card thus providing improved security and convenience.

In an example an application running on a client device provides a user with information about one or more available cash machines located near the user. The application then allows the user to select one of the identified cash machines when initiating a cash request. In some examples a sensor associated with the selected cash machine detects the presence of the client device and the application on the client device prompts the user to approach the cash machine.

In an example a one time authorization code is generated for the cash request and provided to the client device when the user is in front of the cash machine. The cash machine automatically prompts the user to enter the one time authorization code sent to the client device and accepts a code input or displayed by the user. The cash machine distributes the requested cash and completes the transaction when the user provided code matches the one time authorization code. The one time authorization code is invalidated once the cash request is complete.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure allow a user to withdraw cash from a financial account at a cash machine without a card by using a computing device and a one time authorization code provided to the computing device. Such methods improve security because criminals do not have a card to steal and a one time authorization code may not be used for another transaction. Further convenience is improved by allowing a user to withdraw cash with a mobile phone or other device when a card is unavailable or when the user prefers not to carry a card.

In an example network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In one example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

User A N machines may be computing devices such as personal computers PC laptops mobile phones smart phones smart televisions tablet computers or any other type of computing device. User A N machines may run an operating system OS that manages hardware and software of a respective machine. A browser not shown may run on user A N machines e.g. on the OS of a user A machine . The browser may be a web browser that can access content and services provided by a web server of server machine . Further other types of software applications running on user A N machines may provide access to content and services of server machine without use of a web server or browser.

Server machine may be a rackmount server a router computer a personal computer a portable digital assistant a mobile phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a video camera a netbook a desktop computer a media center or any combination thereof. Server machine may include a web server and a cash authorization system . In some examples web server and cash authorization system may run on one or more different machines. In one example cash authorization system allows a user A to withdraw cash from a financial institution A account at cash machine A using a computing device instead of a card e.g. bank card debit card cash card credit card client card payment card electronic benefit transfer cards etc. .

Web server may serve text audio video and image content to users A N. Web server also may provide web based application services and business logic to users A N. Users A N may locate access and consume various forms of content and services from web server using applications such as a web browser. Web server also may receive text audio video and image content from users A N that is persisted in a data store for purposes that may include preservation and future retrieval.

In an example web server is coupled to one or more applications servers not shown that provide applications and services to users A N. In one example application servers may provide users A N with access to one or more software applications including but not limited to finance banking investing payment processing cash withdrawals and electronic commerce. Such functionality also may be provided for example using one or more different web applications standalone applications systems plug ins web browser extensions and application programming interfaces APIs .

In an example some user A N machines may include applications associated with a service provided by server machine e.g. applications mobile applications apps . In one example one or more device types e.g. smart phones smart televisions tablet computers etc. may use applications to access content provided by server machine to issue commands to server machine or to receive content from server machine without accessing or using web pages.

In an example functions performed by server machine and or web server also may be performed by the client A N machines in whole or in part. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component may be performed by different or multiple components operating together. Server machine also may be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices via appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites.

In an example cash authorization system includes cash machine locator cash request manager cash request validator and authorization code invalidator . In other examples functionality associated with cash machine locator cash request manager cash request validator and authorization code invalidator may be combined divided and organized in various arrangements.

In an example cash machine locator receives a request to provide information about cash machines A N located near a user A machine. For example a user A may request a list of cash machines A N located within a distance of a location provided by a user A machine. In response cash machine locator may identify one or more cash machines A N within the distance of the provided location.

In an example cash machine locator filters identified cash machines A N based on one or more user preferences prior to returning a result to a user A. For example cash machine locator may filter identified cash machines A N based on one or more financial institutions A N preferred by or associated with a user A. Cash machine locator also may filter identified cash machines A N based on cash machine service fees available cash machine currency cash machine merchant affiliation cash machines supporting cardless cash withdrawal etc.

In an example cash machine locator provides a filtered or unfiltered list of identified cash machines A N to a user A. For example one or more identified cash machines A N may be presented to a user A in a list of information on a map or in other arrangements. In one example cash machine locator provides a location and other information about a cash machine A nearest to a user A as compared to other identified cash machines A N. In another example cash machine locator provides a visual indicator e.g. color icon image etc. or textual indicator e.g. label code etc. to show that an identified cash machine A supports cardless cash transactions e.g. cardless cash withdrawals cardless deposits etc. .

A cash machine A generally refers to an automated semi automated or manually operated terminal where a user A may withdraw or extract cash or other physical currency e.g. gold silver etc. from a financial institution A account. A cash machine A may include or be referred to as an automated teller machine an automated banking machine cashpoint cashline etc. A cash machine also may include a point of sale system where a user may access or withdraw available cash from an account. For example a grocery store checkout bank teller terminal or money transfer location also may serve as a cash machine A where a user can perform secure cardless cash withdrawal.

Cash machines A N may be associated with one or more beacons A N or other types of secure sensors. A beacon generally refers to a short range communication device having a known or fixed location. A beacon usually provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. An example of a beacon is a radio frequency RF beacon e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon infrared beacon or a radio frequency identifier RFID tag. For example a BLE beacon can broadcast an RF signal that includes its position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude which can be detected by a mobile device. In some examples a beacon also may advertise location based services provided by a beacon network. A beacon network usually encompasses a plurality of beacons in a geographic region.

When a mobile device first makes contact with a beacon in the beacon network the beacon can transmit to the mobile device a list of unique identifiers of other beacons in the network and other information about the beacon network. Beacon networks can be located in any geographic region including businesses e.g. shopping malls retail stores restaurants etc. landmarks e.g. museums airports parks entertainment venues etc. homes and any other environments where location based services are desired.

In an example beacons may be placed on or near cash machines A N to detect the presence of a user A computing device associated with a pending cardless cash request when the computing device is in range of a cash machine A to determine whether a user A is close enough to a cash machine A to enter a one time authorization code to determine whether a user A is no longer in range of a cash machine A etc.

Financial institutions A N generally refer to any organizations that provide financial services to users A N. Financial institutions include but are not limited to banks investment companies insurance companies payment service providers merchants pension firms state and federal government agencies etc. Financial institutions A N generally operate and manage financial accounts for users A N. In addition various types of financial institution A N accounts allow a user to extract or withdraw an amount of cash that is backed by or available within an account. In an example cash authorization system allows a user A to securely withdraw cash from a financial institution A account at a cash machine A with a mobile computing device instead of a card.

In an example cash request manager receives a cash request from a computing device of a user A to be fulfilled at a user selected cash machine A. In one example cash request manager generates a one time authorization code for a cash request to allow secure distribution of the requested cash at a selected cash machine A. For example cash request manager may send the one time authorization code generated for the cash request to a requesting user A computing device or another user s N computing device as specified by a requesting user A. In one example a one time authorization code may be generated and sent to a mobile phone application running on a computing device in response to a user A selecting an available cash machine A from a list of displayed cash machines A N presented in order based on proximity to a location of the same or another computing device. In one example the one time authorization code may be entered at a selected cash machine A to withdraw the requested cash. In some examples a one time authorization code may be entered at one of a plurality of cash machines A N associated with cash authorization system .

In an example a one time authorization code is valid for a specific cash request and may not be used or reused with another cash request or transaction. In one example a one time authorization code has a lifetime where it remains active and useable e.g. 30 seconds 1 minute two minutes etc. . The lifetime of a one time authorization code may be extended for example at a request of a user or when a user is detected within range of a cash machine A by a beacon or other sensor associated with the cash machine.

In an example a one time authorization code may include a single use numeric personal identification number PIN a single use alphanumeric code a single use quick response QR code etc. In one example cash request manager may provide a generated one time authorization code to cash request validator or a cash machine A for validation.

In an example cash request validator authorizes a cash request received from a user A. For example cash request validator may authorize a cash request based on one or more attributes of a user A financial account. In one example cash request validator sends an authorization request to a financial institution A associated with a financial account and receives authorization from the financial institution A to process the cash request.

In an example cash request validator validates a user provided code received from a cash machine A. In one example a user A enters a one time authorization code provided to the user s A computing device at a cash machine A and the cash machine A sends the user provided code to cash request validator for validation.

In an example cash request validator validates a user provided code by determining that a one time authorization code for a cash request is active and has not expired an identity and or location of a cash machine handling a cash request corresponds to a cash machine selected by a user A a current location of the computing device receiving the one time authorization code is valid and the user provided code matches the one time authorization code. In one example cash request validator instructs a cash machine to distribute the requested cash when the validation is successful.

In an example authorization code invalidator invalidates e.g. deactivates or expires a one time authorization code generated for a cash request. In one example authorization code invalidator invalidates a one time authorization code when a cardless cash request transaction is complete. Authorization code invalidator also may invalidate a one time authorization code when a cardless cash request transaction is canceled directly or indirectly by a user A. For example a user A may cancel a cash request using a computing device away from a cash machine A or using a cash machine A. A cardless cash request transaction also may be canceled indirectly for example when a user A moves out of range of a beacon A or other sensor associated with a cash machine A selected for the cash request.

Method begins at block when cash authorization system receives a cash request from a computing device of a user A. In an example a user A initiates a cash request using an application running on a computing device of the user. For example a user A may initiate a cash request using a mobile app running on a mobile computing device operated by the user A. In one example an application running on the computing device of the user A is coupled to a cash authorization system via a network and communicates with cash authorization system directly or via an application programming interface API web services etc. In some examples a user A may initiate a cash request using a web application text messaging instant messaging or using any software application s running on or invocated by a computing device.

In an example a user A inputs or provides cash request information to a software application. For example a user may enter cash request information into a graphical user interface GUI of an application or may provide textual input e.g. one or more strings of characters to initiate a cash request. In one example a cash request comprises one or more of an identifier of a requesting user a source account to fund the cash request a financial institution associated with the source account an identifier of a recipient user of the cash request e.g. the same or different user the requested amount of cash to be withdrawn from the source account a requested currency for the cash to be provided etc.

In an example a user A initiates a cash request using an application on a computing device where the computing device is not detectable by any beacons A N associated with cash machines A N. Thus a user A may initiate a cash request outside the presence or beyond range of a cash machine A. In some examples a user A may initiate a cash request within range of a cash machine A as indicated by a beacon A or other sensor associated with the cash machine. In an example one or more beacons A or other types of sensors may be attached and or logically linked to a cash machine A to provide location and or cardless financial transactions.

In an example a cash request initiated by a user A may comprise one or more of a user selected cash machine to fulfill a cash request a financial institution A account to serve as a source of funding for a cash request an amount of cash to be supplied by a cash machine a currency for the requested cash to be supplied etc. In one example a user A specifies another user N as a recipient of a cash request. For example the user A may allow another individual to perform a cardless cash withdrawal using funds provided from a user A financial account by specifying information identifying another user e.g. a username userid e mail address account identifier a telephone number etc. .

At block cash authorization system generates a one time authorization code for the cash request and communicates the one time authorization code to a user e.g. user A user N to allow distribution of the requested cash at a cash machine A. For example cash request manager may generate a one time authorization code for a pending cash request. In one example a one time authorization code is a unique single use code that is unusable and invalid with another transaction or request. In one example a one time authorization code has a lifetime e.g. 30 seconds 1 minute etc. which may be extended. One time authorization code types may include a single use numeric personal identification number PIN a single use alphanumeric code a single use quick response QR code etc.

In an example cash request manager associates a generated one time authorization code with a cash request to allow secure cardless fulfillment at a cash machine A. In one example cash request manager may associate a generated one time authorization code with one or more cash machines A N one of which may fulfill the cash request of a user A. For example cash request manager may associate a generated one time authorization code with a specific cash machine A selected by a user A or with one or more cash machines within a distance of a location provided by the computing device of a user A thus allowing a user to use one of many potential cash machines e.g. when running errands when shopping etc. .

In an example cash request manager generates a one time authorization code for the cash request when a computing device of a user A involved in a cash request is in range of a cash machine A as indicated by a beacon A. In one example cash request manager provides a one time authorization code to the computing device of a user A involved in a cash request when the computing device is detected within twelve inches of the cash machine A or closer as indicated by a beacon A. In one example cash request manager may provide the one time authorization code to the computing device of another user N associated with a pending cash request e.g. via an application text message etc. . In some examples cash request manager also provides the one time authorization code to one or more cash machines A N to allow distribution of the requested cash at a cash machine A for example using cash machine provided validation.

In an example cash request manager generates a one time authorization code for the cash request and provides the one time authorization code to the computing device of a user A without the use of a beacon A or other sensor. For example a user may initiate a cardless cash withdrawal using one or more screens or functions provided by a cash machine A. In one example a one time authorization code for a cash request is generated and provided to a computing device of a user A e.g. via an application in response to a cardless cash withdrawal or other request initiated by a user A operating a cash machine A.

At block cash authorization system instructs the cash machine A to distribute the requested cash when a user provided code received at the cash machine A matches the one time authorization code generated for the cash request. In an example a cash machine A receives a code for a pending cash request input by a user at the cash machine A. A cash machine A then sends the user provided code to cash request validator for validation.

In an example cash request validator compares the user provided code to the one time authorization code generated for the cash request. In one example cash request validator instructs or authorizes the cash machine A providing the user provided code to distribute the requested cash when the user provided code matches the one time authorization code generated for the cash request.

Method begins at block cash authorization system identifies one or more cash machines A N located within a distance of a location provided by a computing device of a user A. In an example cash machine locator identifies one or more cash machines A N near a user provided location or a location provided by a computing device of a user A e.g. via global positioning system s GPS accelerometer s gyroscope s location image recognition a beacon network etc. . For example a user A may search for one or more nearby cash machines A N prior to or as part of initiating a cardless cash request. In one example cash machine locator filters identified cash machines based on one or more user preferences e.g. preferred financial institution A cash machine service fees preferred currency or currencies merchant affiliation cardless cash withdrawal service availability etc. .

In an example cash machine locator provides information about one or more identified cash machines A N to a user A. In one example cash machine locator provides a user A with a location of a closest available cash machine A in relation to a plurality of identified cash machines A N. Cash machine locator also may provide a user A with a visual or textual indication that an identified cash machine A supports cardless financial transactions. In one example cash machine locator receives an indication that a user A has selected an identified cash machine A for a cardless cash withdrawal request or other transaction type.

At block cash authorization system receives a cash request from the computing device of the user A to be fulfilled at an identified cash machine A selected by the user A. In an example cash request manager receives a cash request from a user A comprising one or more of a user selected cash machine A to fulfill the cash request a financial institution A account to serve as a funding source for the cash request a requested cash amount a currency for the requested cash etc. In one example cash request manager requests and receives authorization for the cash request from a financial institution A. Cash request manager also may authorize the cash request based on one or more attributes of a user financial account. For example cash request manager may authorize a cash request when an available amount of funds in a user A account equals or exceeds an amount of requested cash.

At block cash authorization system generates a one time authorization code for the cash request when the computing device of the user A is detected within range of the selected cash machine A. In an example cash request manager receives an indication that a beacon A associated with a cash machine A has detected the presence of a user A computing device within range of the cash machine A. In one example cash request manager generates a one time authorization code for a cash request when a computing device of a user A is at a user selected cash machine. For example cash request manager may generate a one time authorization code for a cash request when a user A computing device is detected fewer than twelve inches away from a cash machine A as indicated by a beacon A. In one example beacons A N may communicate with a client and or server based cash authorization system via an application on a mobile computing device of a user A.

In an example a software application on a computing device prompts a user A to approach a cash machine A. For example a software application on a user A computing device communicates with a cash machine beacon A and receives or determines a user s A location in relation to the cash machine . In one example a software application may continually or periodically instruct a user to approach a cash machine A until it is determined that the user A is close enough to the cash machine A to complete a transaction. For example a user A may be prompted to approach a cash machine until a user is detected twelve or fewer inches away from the cash machine A cancels a pending cash request or is no longer detected in range or the presence of a cash machine A.

At block cash authorization system provides the one time authorization code to the computing device of the user A. In an example cash authorization system provides a one time authorization code associated with a cash request to a computing device of a user A when the computing device is detected within twelve inches of a cash machine A. In one example cash request manager generates and provides a one time authorization code to the computing device of the user A in response to detecting or receiving an indication that the user A is within twelve inches of a cash machine A.

At block cash authorization system validates a user provided code received from the selected cash machine A. In an example cash request validator validates a user provided code received from a cash machine A by determining that the user provided code matches a one time authorization code associated with a cash request. In addition cash request validator validation may comprise determining that a one time authorization code associated with the cash request has not expired determining that an identity or location of a cash machine associated with the user provided code corresponds to a cash machine A selected by a user A determining that a current location of a user A computing device receiving the one time authorization code corresponds to a selected cash machine or determining that biometric data received from a cash machine matches corresponding biometric data for a user A.

At block cash authorization system authorizes the selected cash machine A to distribute the requested cash when the user provided code is verified. In an example cash request validator sends an instruction authorizing a selected cash machine A to fulfill a pending cash request when a user provided code matches a one time authorization code generated for the cash request. In one example cash request validator also may validate one or more additional aspects of a cash request as indicated at block prior to sending authorization to a cash machine.

At block cash authorization system invalidates the one time authorization code generated for the cash request. In an example authorization code invalidator invalidates a one time authorization code associated with a cash request when the cash request is fulfilled by a cash machine A or the cash request is canceled. In one example a cash request may be canceled actively or passively by a user A. For example a user A may actively cancel a pending cash request using a function provided by an application on a computing device or a function provided by a cash machine A. A user A may passively cancel a pending cash request when a computing device associated with the pending cash request moves away and or outside of range of a cash machine A as indicated by a beacon A.

Method begins at block when a cash machine A detects a computing device associated with a pending cash request. In an example a beacon A associated with a cash machine A detects the presence of a user A computing device associated with a pending cash request. In one example an application on a user A computing device interacts with a beacon A and continually or periodically prompts a user A to approach the cash machine A until the user A computing device is detected within twelve inches of the cash machine A.

In an example an application on a user A computing device interacts with a beacon A of a cash machine A and a cash authorization system . In one example a mobile device application indicates to cash request manager that a user A is within twelve inches of the cash machine A. In response cash request manager generates and provides a one time authorization code for authorizing the cash request to a user A computing device for example via a 3G 4G wireless or other network.

In general a beacon A may detect the presence of a computing device detect that a computing device has an application configured to communicate with the beacon request and receive a user phone number or account identifier and receive details associated with a user A account.

At block the cash machine A requests a one time authorization code associated with the pending cash request when the computing device is detected within twelve inches of the cash machine A. In an example a cash machine A prompts a user A to enter a one time authorization code for a pending cash request. For example a cash machine A may display a prompt and an input field when a user A is detected within twelve inches as indicated by a beacon A. In one example a cash machine A may prompt a user to provide a quick response QR code bar code or other readable image at a scanning input sensor associated with the cash machine A. In some examples a cash machine A also may prompt a user A for biometric information such as a fingerprint hand or palm print facial scan eye scan voice sample writing sample etc. In a further example a beaconless cash machine A may provide a standard selectable screen accessible to any user that allows direct input of a one time authorization code at the cash machine.

At block the cash machine A accepts a user provided code in response to the request for a one time authorization code. In an example a cash machine A accepts a user provided code e.g. numeric alphanumeric quick response barcode etc. to authenticate a pending cash request at the cash machine A. A user A may directly enter a user provided code using an input device associated with a cash machine. A user A also may allow a cash machine A to scan a visual code displayed on a computing device of the user A. Further a client A also may provide a sampling of biometric data to a cash machine A in addition to a one time authorization code.

At block the cash machine A sends the user provided code to an authorization system for validation. In an example cash machine A sends a user provided code to cash request validator for validation. Cash machine A also may send additional information to allow cash request validator to validate a cash request. For example a cash machine A may send its identity location and other attributes to cash request validator . A cash machine A also may send biometric data collected from a user A to cash request validator for additional validation.

At block the cash machine A provides the requested cash in response to receiving an indication that the cash request has been authorized. In an example cash machine A receives an authorization message from cash request validator indicating that a pending cash request has been validated and is authorized. In response cash machine A dispenses the requested cash to a user A reports completion of the cash request to cash request manager and authorization code invalidator deactivates the one time authorization code generated for the completed cash request.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate DDR SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one example the instructions include instructions for a cash authorization system e.g. cash authorization system of and or a software library containing methods that call a cash authorization system. While the computer readable storage medium machine readable storage medium is shown in an example to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as computing comparing applying creating ranking classifying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain examples of the present disclosure also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be constructed for the intended purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other examples will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

