---

title: Method and apparatus for identification of touch panels
abstract: A method for configuring a touchscreen controller may include identifying a model of a touchscreen by measuring a capacitance or resistance of at least one element integrated in the touchscreen, identifying the model of the touchscreen based on the measured capacitance or resistance, and configuring the touchscreen controller based on the identified model of the touchscreen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411477&OS=09411477&RS=09411477
owner: PARADE TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
number: 09411477
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140307
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 753 757 filed Apr. 2 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 256 296 filed on Oct. 29 2009 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of touchscreen controllers and in particular to identification of a model of a touchscreen device connected to a touchscreen controller.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor elements that detect the position of a conductive object such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreen devices touchscreens touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to press the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Described herein is a method and apparatus for determining and adapting a touchscreen controller to operate using a particular model of touchscreen device.

Touchscreen controllers typically operate using specific parameters designed to allow measurement and sensing of touch when coupled with a particular model of touchscreen. In one embodiment these parameters may be programmed into the touchscreen controller after the touchscreen is physically interfaced to the touchscreen controller. If it is desired to use the touchscreen controller in a different assembly having a different touchscreen model the controller may be reprogrammed with different parameters so that it can measure and sense touch with the different touchscreen. This approach however may restrict flexible usage of different touchscreen models in test manufacturing or assembly since the touchscreen controller is reprogrammed for each different touchscreen model.

In one embodiment initial configuration of a touchscreen controller may include identifying a model of a touchscreen device by measuring a characteristic such as a resistance of a coded element integrated into the touchscreen device and identifying the model of the touchscreen from a plurality of possible models based on the measured value. Identification logic in the touchscreen controller may identify parameters that allow the touchscreen controller to interface with the particular model of touchscreen. The appropriate set of parameters may be found in a lookup table that correlates the measured value with the set of parameters for example. The touchscreen controller may be configured to operate using the parameters corresponding to the identified model of the touchscreen device.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor elements N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via an analog bus transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor element N is represented as a capacitor. The capacitance of each sensor in the sensor array is measured by a capacitance sensor in the processing device .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The capacitance sensor may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor element detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Sensor array includes a number of horizontal sensor elements and vertical sensor elements . Each of the sensor elements and is connected to the touchscreen controller through a sensor electrode pin such as sensor electrode pin . also illustrates a coded element having a specific measurable characteristic. In one embodiment the coded element may be a resistor having a resistance of R. The coded element may be connected between one of the sensor elements such as sensor element and an identification pin of the touchscreen controller .

In one embodiment the coded element and the sensor elements and are manufactured from the same material. For example the sensor elements and and the coded element may all be manufactured from an indium tin oxide ITO material. The coded element may be manufactured using the same process as the sensor elements and . In an alternative embodiment the coded element may be constructed from printed carbon or may be constructed from one or more discrete resistors.

In one embodiment the sensor array and coded element are connected to the touchscreen controller through a single connector. It should also be noted that because the coded element is connected to one of the sensor electrodes the interface between the touchscreen device including the sensor array and the touchscreen controller uses only one additional pin for the touchscreen device identification process which is the identification pin .

In one embodiment the touchscreen controller is configured to identify the manufacturer and model of the touchscreen device by measuring a resistance Rof the coded element . The number of possible models and manufacturers that can be resolved by the touch controller depends on the accuracy of the measurement and the tolerance of the coded element . In one embodiment the measurement of the coded element and identification of the model and manufacturer of the touchscreen occurs at run time. In another embodiment the identification occurs at first power on of the touchscreen controller and the touchscreen panel.

In one embodiment where the coded element is a resistor the touchscreen controller may measure the resistance Rof the coded element by forcing a known current through the coded element using a current digital to analog converter IDAC . In an alternative embodiment the resistance Rof the coded element can be measured by creating a voltage divider that divides a known reference voltage. For example a reference resistor having a known value may be connected in series with the coded element .

Touchscreen controller also includes a control logic that is configured to interface with a touchscreen device such as touch sensing surface to which the touchscreen controller is connected. The touchscreen controller also includes identification logic connected with the control logic . The identification logic performs logic and control functions related to identifying the touchscreen device by measuring a characteristic of the coded element . In one embodiment the identification logic may also be coupled with a lookup table LUT such as LUT . In one embodiment the LUT may be implemented in a memory such as flash memory. LUT may also be connected to a touch parameter structure which may contain model specific information for controlling and communicating with the host system or for interfacing with the touchscreen. For example the parameters stored in the touch parameter structure when stored in or accessed by the control logic may allow the control logic to interface with the touchscreen or communicate with the host system.

In one embodiment the identification logic is connected with an analog to digital converter ADC which is connected through switch to a current digital to analog converter IDAC also known as a programmable current source. The IDAC has its input connected to source voltage . In one embodiment the IDAC can be programmed to supply a known current at its output which is connected to switch . The ADC is also connected to identification pin through switch .

When the touchscreen in which the coded element is integrated is connected to the touchscreen controller the coded element is connected at one end to identification pin and at the other end to sensor electrode pin . Sensor electrode pin may be connected through switch to control logic and through switch to ground. In an alternate embodiment IDAC may be configured as a programmable current sink connected to ground and switch may provide a connection to source voltage .

In one embodiment the identification logic measures the resistance Rof the coded element by closing switches and . With these switches activated the coded resistance is connected at one end to the IDAC and at the other end to ground such that the IDAC can supply a known current through the coded resistance . The ADC measures the voltage difference generated between the identification pin and the sensor electrode pin ground resulting from the passage of the known current from the IDAC through the coded resistance .

In one embodiment the identification logic receives a value representing the measured voltage from the ADC and calculates the magnitude of the coded resistance based on the value and the known current supplied by the IDAC . The identification logic can then query the LUT to find a range in which calculated Rfalls. In an alternate embodiment since there is a 1 to 1 correspondence between the ADC output value and the coded resistance the resistance calculation step can be skipped and the value representing the Measured voltage may be passed directly to the identification logic. In one embodiment the LUT correlates each of a plurality of touchscreen models with a range of resistance values. Using the LUT the identification logic can determine the model of the touchscreen device to which the touchscreen controller is connected.

The identification logic can also identify parameters for interfacing with the identified touchscreen model and for communicating with a host system. In one embodiment the identification logic identifies the appropriate parameters by performing another lookup using the identified model of the touchscreen device. Alternatively the LUT may correlate the resistance of Rdirectly with the parameters so that the identification logic can identify the appropriate parameters based on the calculated resistance R.

In one embodiment the parameters for the identified model of touchscreen device are located in the touch parameter structure . The identification logic can retrieve the appropriate parameters from the touch parameter structure and communicate the parameters to the control logic . Control logic can then operate using the appropriate parameters for operating the specific model of touchscreen device to which the touchscreen controller is connected.

When the identification logic is not measuring a characteristic of coded element the switches and can be opened so that signals from a sensor element can be received at sensor electrode pin without being adversely affected by the presence of the coded element . For example when the touchscreen controller is controlling the touchscreen device switches and may be opened while switch is closed so that the control logic is connected to sensor electrode pin at which a signal may be presented to or received from a sensor element of the touchscreen device.

Touchscreen controller also includes a control logic that is configured to interface with a touchscreen having a touch sensing surface such as touch sensing surface to which the touchscreen controller is connected. The touchscreen controller also includes identification logic connected with the control logic . The identification logic performs logic and control functions related to identifying the touchscreen by measuring the value of the coded element . In one embodiment the identification logic may also be connected with a lookup table LUT such as LUT . In one embodiment the LUT may be implemented in a memory such as flash memory. LUT may also be connected to a touch parameter structure which may contain model specific information for controlling and communicating with a host system or for interfacing with the touchscreen. For example the parameters stored in the touch parameter structure when stored in or accessed by the control logic may allow the control logic to measure the touchscreen device.

In one embodiment the identification logic is connected with an analog to digital converter ADC which is connected through switch to a reference resistor having a resistance of R. Reference resistor is connected to a reference voltage having a voltage level V. ADC is also connected to identification pin through switch .

When the touchscreen device in which the coded resistance is integrated is connected to the touchscreen controller the coded element is connected at one end to identification pin and at the other end to sensor electrode pin . Sensor electrode pin is connected through switch to control logic and through switch to ground. In an alternate embodiment reference resistor having a resistance of Rmay be connected to ground and switch may provide a connection to reference voltage having a voltage level V. In a still further embodiment ADC may operate with a ratiometric reference that tracks Vvoltage allowing said reference to be variable in magnitude while delivering an equivalent value from measurements.

In one embodiment the identification logic measures the resistance Rof the coded element by closing switches and . With these switches activated the coded element is connected at one end to the reference resistor and at the other end to ground such that a voltage divider circuit is formed from the reference resistor and the coded element . The input of the voltage divider circuit is connected to reference voltage and the output of the voltage divider circuit is connected to ADC . The divider circuit divides the reference voltage generating a divided output voltage at the identification pin . The ADC measures the voltage difference generated between the identification pin and the sensor electrode pin ground resulting from the application of the reference voltage to the input of the voltage divider circuit.

In one embodiment the identification logic receives a value representing the measured voltage from the ADC and calculates the magnitude of the coded resistance based on the value the reference voltage and the known resistance Rof the reference resistor . The identification logic can then query the LUT to find a range in which the calculated Rfalls. In an alternate embodiment since there is a 1 to 1 correspondence between the ADC output value and the coded resistance the resistance calculation step can be skipped and the value representing the measured voltage may be passed directly to the identification logic. In one embodiment the LUT correlates each of a plurality of touchscreen models with a range of resistance values. Using information in the LUT the identification logic can determine the model of the touchscreen device to which the touchscreen controller is connected.

The identification logic can also identify the parameters for interfacing with the identified touchscreen model and for communicating with a host system. In one embodiment the identification logic identifies the appropriate parameters by performing another lookup using the identified model of the touchscreen device. Alternatively the LUT may correlate the resistance of Rdirectly with the parameters so that the identification logic can identify the appropriate parameters based on the calculated resistance R.

In one embodiment the parameters for the identified model of touchscreen device are located in the touch parameter structure . The identification logic can retrieve the appropriate parameters from the touch parameter structure and communicate the parameters to the control logic . The control logic can then operate using the appropriate parameters for operating the specific model of touchscreen device to which the touchscreen controller is connected.

When the identification logic is not measuring a characteristic of coded element the switches and can be opened so that signals from a sensor element can be received at sensor electrode pin without being adversely affected by the presence of the coded element .

In one embodiment after the model of the touchscreen device has been determined the touchscreen controller is placed in normal operation mode. In normal operation mode the identification pin is set to high impedance and the sensor electrode pin is connected to a capacitive sensing channel of the control logic or . For example when the touchscreen controller is controlling the touchscreen device switches and may be opened while switch is closed so that the control logic is connected to sensor electrode pin at which a signal may be presented to or received from a sensor element of the touchscreen device.

In one embodiment the above methods for identifying the model of a touchscreen device adds only one microcontroller pin the identification pin or to an existing interface.

Sensor array includes a number of vertical sensor elements including sensor elements and and a number of horizontal sensor elements including sensor element . Sensor elements and are connected to touchscreen controller through sensor electrode pins . Sensor element is connected to the touchscreen controller through sensor electrode pin . further illustrates secondary plates and which are connected to the touchscreen controller through identification pins and respectively. In one embodiment the secondary plate or is connected to the identification pins and respectively through a connector so that the secondary plates and may be connected to the identification pins or simultaneously with the connections between the sensor electrodes and and the sensor electrode pins and . In an alternative embodiment the secondary plates or may be soldered or otherwise permanently connected to the identification pins or . Within the touchscreen controller the identification pins and may be connected to ground through switches and . In an alternate embodiment identification pins and may be connected to a low impedance voltage reference through switches and and thus provide a virtual ground.

In one embodiment the secondary plate may be constructed from one or more ITO strips overlapped by primary plates formed by ITO strips connected to sensor elements and . Similarly secondary plate may be overlapped by a primary plate formed by an ITO strip connected to element . For example the primary plates may be formed from part of the routing material or may be separate sensor structures in mutual or self capacitance configurations. If said secondary plates and are located outside the normal viewable area of the touchscreen device they may be constructed from other conductive materials e.g. copper carbon and silver conductive ink.

In one embodiment the touchscreen controller may include both of the secondary plates and and both of the identification pins and as illustrated in . Alternatively a touchscreen controller may include either secondary plate connected to identification pin or secondary plate connected to identification pin . is an equivalent circuit illustrating the capacitances between the secondary plate and the sensor elements and . In one embodiment the capacitances C and C are formed between the secondary plate and the sensor elements and respectively. In one embodiment the capacitance between sensor elements and is measured with switch open plate is floating and also with switch closed plate is grounded . The difference between these measurements may be correlated with a model of touchscreen using a LUT similar to LUTs or . In one embodiment the identification pin is an open drain pin that can be grounded by the touchscreen controller .

Alternatively the touchscreen controller may measure the self capacitance of sensor element . is an equivalent circuit illustrating the capacitances between the secondary plate and sensor element . In one embodiment the capacitance C is formed between the secondary plate and the sensor element . In one embodiment the self capacitance of sensor element may be measured with the switch open plate is floating and also with the switch closed plate is grounded . The difference in these measurements may be correlated with a model of touchscreen using a LUT similar to LUTs or . In one embodiment the identification pin is an open drain pin that can be grounded by the touchscreen controller . In an alternate embodiment secondary plate may not be capacitively coupled to other sensor electrodes of sensor array but may be coupled directly to a sensor electrode pin. In this embodiment the self capacitance of the secondary plate itself may be used to identify the specific model of attached touchscreen.

The touchscreen controller configuration process begins at block where the touchscreen controller measures a characteristic of a coded element integrated in a touchscreen device. The measurement of the characteristic such as the resistance of the coded element may be initiated by for example identification logic or . In one embodiment the identification logic or may determine the resistance Rby passing a known current through the coded element or respectively. In another embodiment the identification logic or may determine the resistance Rby creating a voltage divider having coded element or respectively as an element in the voltage divider. Methods for measuring Rwill be described in further detail with reference to . Alternatively the coded element may be a capacitance such as the capacitances or as illustrated in or the self capacitance of secondary plate . From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller identifies the model of the touchscreen device by searching the lookup table to locate a matching resistance range. For example the identification logic or may compare the measured resistance with value ranges in LUT or respectively. LUT or may contain information correlating the resistance with a model of touchscreen device. From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller identifies parameters corresponding to the identified model of the touchscreen. In one embodiment the identification logic may perform another lookup of the model of the touchscreen device to identify parameters for controlling and communicating with the particular model of touchscreen and for communicating with a paired host or host protocol. In an alternative embodiment where the LUT correlates a value of the coded element such as resistance Ror capacitances C C or C with model specific parameters directly the identification logic only performs a single lookup. From block the process continues at block .

At block control logic in the touchscreen controller is configured to operate using the identified parameters. For example the identification logic may copy the appropriate parameters from the touch parameter structure to the control logic . Alternatively the appropriate parameters for operating the identified touchscreen device may be copied from the touch parameter structure into the control logic by other means. Alternately the identified parameters may be accessed directly by the control logic from their location in the touch parameter structure .

The measurement process begins at block . At block the touchscreen controller passes a current through a coded element that is integrated into a touchscreen device. For example a known current from the IDAC may be passed through the coded element as illustrated in . From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller measures a voltage across the coded element while the current is being passed through the coded element. For example the ADC may measure the voltage across the coded element by measuring the voltage at identification pin relative to ground. From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller calculates the value of the coded element based on the current and the measured voltage. For example the identification logic may calculate the value of coded element based on the known current supplied by the IDAC and the voltage measured by the ADC . In one embodiment the process continues from block to block of touchscreen controller configuration process where the calculated value is used to identify a model of the touchscreen device.

Measurement process begins at block where the touchscreen controller forms a divider circuit including the coded element and a reference resistor where the coded element is integrated in a touchscreen device. For example a voltage divider circuit may be formed that includes reference resistor and coded element in series. In one embodiment the coded element is integrated into the touchscreen device and is connected to the identification pin using the same connector as one or more sensor electrodes of the touchscreen device. In an alternative embodiment the coded element may be connected to the identification pin through a solder connection or some other permanent or semi permanent connection mechanism. Accordingly the voltage divider circuit may be formed when the touchscreen device is physically connected to the touchscreen controller . From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller applies a divider input voltage to an input terminal of the divider circuit created at block . For example in the touchscreen controller the reference voltage applies a voltage Vto the input of the voltage divider circuit formed by the resistors and . From V the voltage divider generates a voltage at the input of the ADC . From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller measures a divider output voltage at a terminal of the divider circuit between the coded element and the reference resistor. For example the ADC measures the divided output voltage generated by the voltage divider that includes reference resistor and coded element . From block the process continues at block .

At block the touchscreen controller calculates the value of the coded element based on the measured divider output voltage. For example identification logic calculates the resistance Rof the coded element based on the known resistance Rof the reference resistor and the known voltage Vsupplied by the voltage source . In one embodiment the process may continue from block to block of touchscreen controller configuration process where the calculated value of the coded element is used to identify a model of the touchscreen device.

Thus by performing the operations in the touchscreen controller configuration process a touchscreen controller may identify a model of a touchscreen device by measuring a characteristic such as a resistance or a capacitance of a coded element integrated into the touchscreen device according a measurement process such as measurement process or . According to process the touchscreen controller may further configure the touchscreen controller to operate using parameters corresponding to the identified model of the touchscreen device.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

