---

title: Biometric authentication for regulating access to content sources via a client device
abstract: A client device captures biometric data from a user and stores the biometric data to identify the user. To simplify access to content from a content source, the user identifies the content source to the client device, which identifies authentication information associated with the user by the content source. For example, the user specifies a username and password associated with the content source to the client device. The authentication information is stored in the client device using the user's biometric data. For example, the client device stores the authentication information so it is not accessible unless the client device receives the user's biometric data. When the user subsequently requests access to the content source, the user provides biometric data to the client device, which retrieves and communicates the authentication information to the content source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563760&OS=09563760&RS=09563760
owner: GOOGLE TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LLC
number: 09563760
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140611
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 969 810 filed Mar. 24 2014 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure generally relates to user authentication and more specifically to using biometric information for authenticating user access to various content sources.

Conventionally biometric information such as fingerprints is used to regulate access to a local computing system or to a physical location. For example biometric information is used to unlock a smartphone or to regulate access to a secure area of a data center. However users increasingly access content from various content sources such as applications or systems external to a client device associated with the user.

Typically content sources use different authentication systems to identify users authorized to access the content sources. As an example different content sources associate different login credentials with a user requiring the user to separately provide different login credentials to access different content sources. While certain content sources may use single sign on systems or central authentication services which allow a user to access various content sources using a common login credential many content sources do not use such authentication methods. Additionally conventional content sources do not use biometric data to authorize a user accessing content from a device external to the content sources.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

To simplify access to content from a content source a client device captures and stores biometric data identifying a user. For example the client device captures one or more fingerprints associated with the user. The client device also receives an identification of the content source from the user and identifies authentication information associated with the user by the content source. For example the user provides the client device with a username and password associated with the user by the content source. The client device stores the authentication information using the user s biometric data. For example the client device stores the authentication information so it is not accessible unless the client device receives the user s biometric data. In some embodiments the client device stores the authentication information in a storage device or a portion of a storage device that is not accessible unless the user s biometric data is received by the client device. Alternatively the client device generates a key from the user s biometric data and encrypts the authentication information using the key.

Subsequently if the user requests to access the content source via the client device the client device captures the user s biometric data. The client device retrieves the authentication information associated with the user by the content source based on the user s biometric data. For example the client device retrieves the authentication information from a storage device after capturing biometric data that matches the user s biometric data. The authentication information is communicated to the content source which provides content to the client device for presentation to the user. Hence rather than provide authentication information to a content source when content is requested the authentication information for the content source is provided and stored on the client device using the user s biometric data limiting access to the authentication information to the user.

A client device is one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively the client device is any device with computing functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone a tablet computer or another suitable device. A client device may include instructions for executing one or more applications that modify data or exchange data with a third party system . For example the client device executes a browser that receives content from a third party system and presents the content to a user of the client device . In another embodiment the client device interacts with a third party system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID . One embodiment of a client device is further described below in conjunction with .

The client device and the third party systems A B communicate with each other via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems A B may be coupled to the network for communicating with the client device . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by the client device or communicating data to the client devices for use by an application executing on the client device . In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . Examples of content provided by a third party system include text images video or audio on web pages web feeds social networking information messages or other suitable data. Additional examples of content include user generated content such as blogs tweets shared images video or audio social networking posts and social networking status updates. Content provided by a third party system may be received from a publisher and distributed by the third party system or a third party system may generate and distribute content itself. For convenience content from a third party system regardless of its composition may be referred to herein as a content item or as content. Content provided by a third party system may include multiple types of data such as text data image data video data or audio data.

The client device includes one or more processors which retrieve and execute instructions from the storage device or the memory . Additionally a processor receives information from the input device and executes one or more instructions included in the received information. The storage device is a persistent storage device including data and or instructions for execution by the processor or for presentation to a user of the client device. Examples of a storage device include a solid state drive a flash memory drive a hard drive or other suitable persistent storage device.

The memory stores instructions for execution by the one or more processors . In various embodiments the memory is a volatile storage medium while the storage device is a non volatile storage medium. Examples of a volatile storage medium include random access memory RAM static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM . Storing data or instructions in the memory allows a processor to retrieve the data or instructions more rapidly than data or instructions stored in the storage device . Data or instructions included in the memory may be modified at various time intervals or in response to data received from a processor .

In one embodiment the memory is partitioned into a plurality of regions that are each associated with an identifier. For example the memory includes multiple slots that each represent a specified amount of the memory and are each associated with an address allowing data stored in a slot to be retrieved using an address associated with a slot. Hence different data may be stored in different slots and subsequently retrieved based on the identifiers associated with the slots.

A biometric sensor is a device configured to capture biometric data associated with a user which is stored in the biometric data store . Biometric data describes one or more physical traits of a user of the client device capable of uniquely identifying the user.

The secure storage device is a persistent storage device that includes data to which access is limited to an authorized user of the client device. For example the secure storage device includes authentication information associated with a user by different content sources. Examples of content sources include a third party system or an application included in the storage device and executed by the processor . The authentication information may include a combination of a username and a password a combination of an account number and a password an account number a personal identification number an access code or any other information for verifying a user s identity to a content source. While shows the secure storage device as a separate component from the storage device in some embodiments the secure storage device is a portion of the storage device .

In some embodiments data stored in the secure storage device is encrypted using one or more suitable encryption methods. Further data associated with different content sources may be encrypted when stored in the secure storage device . For example different content sources specify different encryption methods or different encryption keys for encrypting authentication information associated with different authentication information. Alternatively data stored in the secure storage device is encrypted using an encryption method applied to different data.

While shows the secure storage device included in the client device in some embodiments the secure storage device may be external to the client device . For example the secure storage device is included in a computing system such as a server separate from the client device but coupled to the client device via the network . After determining that a user is authorized to access the secure storage device as further described below the client device communicates with the computing system including the secure storage device to retrieve stored information associated with the user.

To limit access to the secure storage device the authentication engine communicates with the biometric sensor and the biometric data store when a request to access the secure storage device is received to verify that a user of the client device requesting access is the user authorized to access the secure storage device i.e. the authorized user . In one embodiment when a request to access the secure storage device is received the authentication engine prompts a user of the client device to provide biometric data via a biometric sensor . Biometric data captured by the biometric sensor is communicated to the authentication engine which compares the captured data to biometric data stored in the biometric data store . If the captured biometric data matches the biometric data stored in the biometric data store the authorization engine determines that the user of the client device is the authorized user and retrieves information from the secure storage device . In some embodiments the authorization engine may compare captured biometric data to biometric data stored in an additional client device or in a server coupled to the client device via the network to determine if a user is the authorized user. For example after capturing biometric data the authorization engine communicates the captured biometric data to an additional client device such as an additional client device within a threshold distance of the client device to determine whether the captured biometric data matches biometric data stored by the additional client device .

For example if a user of the client device requests content from a content source the content source requests authentication information previously associated with the user by the content source from the secure storage device . In response to the request for authentication information from the secure storage device the authentication engine prompts a user of the client device to provide biometric data via a biometric sensor . Biometric data captured by the biometric sensor is communicated to the authentication engine which compares the captured biometric data to biometric data stored in the biometric data store . If the captured biometric data matches the biometric data in the biometric data store the authentication engine determines that the user is authorized to access the secure storage device and communicates authentication information associated with the content source to the content source for verifying that the user is authorized to access content from the content source. Retrieval of authentication information form a content source from the secure data storage device based on biometric data is further described below in conjunction with .

The usage analysis module identifies user interactions with various content sources e.g. a third party system an application executing on the client device and identifies one or more content sources based on historical user interactions with content sources. For example the usage analysis module stores a timestamp along with a content source identifier to identify dates and times when a user accessed a content source associated with the content source identifier via the client device . In some embodiments the usage analysis module also maintains data describing a type of interaction between a user and a content source. Over a time interval the usage analysis module analyzes user interactions with various content sources to identify content sources with which the user had a threshold amount of interaction or with which the user had a threshold frequency of interaction. For example the usage analysis module identifies content sources that a user accessed at least a threshold number of times within a month. In some embodiments the usage analysis module retrieves information describing user interaction with a content source from the content source. Additionally information describing user interaction with content sources may be subject to one or more privacy settings specified by the user. Privacy settings limit the information describing user interaction with a content source maintained by the usage analysis module or limit access of the usage analysis module to data maintained by a content source describing user interaction with the content source. Identification of content sources based on user interaction with content sources is further described below in conjunction with .

A display device presents content and other information to a user of the client device . Examples of the display device include a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD or any other suitable device. Different client devices may have display devices with different sizes different resolutions or other different characteristics.

For purposes of illustration shows a single input device however the client device may include multiple input devices in various embodiments. The input device receives input from a user of the client device . Examples of the input device include a touch sensitive display a keyboard a dial pad a mouse and a trackpad. Using a touch sensitive display allows the client device to combine the display device and the input device simplifying user interaction with presented content. Inputs received via the input device are be processed by the processor and may be communicated to a third party system or to another client device via the communication module .

The communication module transmits data from the client device to another client device or to a third party system via the network . Additionally the communication module receives data via the network e.g. data from another client device or from a third party system and communicates the received data to one or more components of the client device . For example the communication module is a wireless transceiver configured to transmit data using one or more wireless communication protocols. Example wireless communication protocols include Global System of Mobile GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS third generation 3G mobile fourth generation mobile 4G High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . In some embodiments the communication module enables connection to the network through a wired communication protocol such as Ethernet. Additionally the communication module may transmit data using near field communication NFC BLUETOOTH or other suitable communication methods for communicating data to client devices or other devices. While shows a single communication module multiple communication modules may be included in the client device in some embodiments.

A client device captures biometric data associated with a user and capable of identifying a user. The captured biometric data is stored by the client device along with information identifying the user such as a user profile identifier. For example the client device captures biometric data associated with the user via one or more biometric sensors included in the client device . As another example the client device receives biometric data and a user identifier from a device external to the client device and stores the received information. Any biometric data or combination of biometric data suitable for identifying the user may be captured . Examples of biometric data include one or more fingerprints of the user an image or other data describing facial features of the user a palmprint of the user information describing a pattern of an iris of the user a sample of a voice of the user and information describing a vascular pattern of one or more fingers of the user however any other suitable biometric information may be captured and stored by the client device .

After capturing and storing the biometric data associated with the user the client device receives a selection of a content source from the user. Examples of a content source include a third party system external to the client device an application executing on the client device or any other entity providing content for presentation to the user via the client device . Different content sources may associate different authentication information with the user so the user provides authentication information associated with the user by a content source to the content source to access content from the content source. In one embodiment the client device identifies one or more content sources to the user via the display device and receives a selection of a content source from an input device . For example the client device identifies candidate content sources that the user accesses with a threshold frequency or accesses a threshold number of times and presents information identifying the candidate content sources to the user. This allows the user to select from content sources with which the user commonly or frequently interacts via the client device . Identification of candidate content sources is further described below in conjunction with . Alternatively a selection of a content source is received when the user requests to access content from the content source.

Authentication information associated with the user by the selected content source is identified by the client device . Different types of authentication information may be associated with a user by a content source. Examples of authentication information associated with a user include a combination of a username and a password a personal identification code a username a password a security question and associated answer and a device identifier. In one embodiment the client device prompts the user to provide the authentication information associated with the user by the selected content source. Alternatively the client device requests the authentication information from the selected content source. In other embodiments the user specifies a portion of the authentication information that is communicated to the content source which provides an additional portion of the authentication information to the client device .

The client device stores the authentication information associated with the user by the content source using the captured biometric data associated with the user. In one embodiment the client device stores the authentication information and a content source identifier of the selected content source in a secure storage device which limits access to stored data to the user associated with the captured biometric data. The client device may encrypt the authentication information associated with the content source identifier using biometric data associated with the user and store the encrypted data in the secure storage device or another storage device . In some embodiments the client device uses a portion of the captured biometric data to limit access to the secure storage device while encrypting the authentication information using another portion of the captured biometric data and storing the encrypted authentication information in the secure storage device . Alternatively the client device may encrypt the authentication information using an encryption method specified by the selected content source or by any other suitable encryption method and store the encrypted authentication information in the secure storage device . By storing the authentication information in a secure storage device that limits access to stored information to a user associated with the captured biometric data the client device securely maintains the authentication information.

While describes storing authentication information from a selected content source in various embodiments any data from the selected content source may be stored using the captured biometric data. For example a content source maintains a contact list associated with a user and indicates that the content list is stored with increased security. The content source communicates the contact list to the client device along with a user identifier and an indication to apply increased security when storing the content list so the client device stores the contact list in the secure storage device or in another location where access to data is limited to a user with biometric data matching biometric data stored by the client device . This allows content providers to securely store different types of data in the client device or to modify types of data securely stored in the client device . By limiting access to certain stored data to a user having biometric data matching stored biometric data the client device provides content providers with the ability to securely store data associated with a user on the client device .

After storing the authentication data associated with the user by the selected content source using the biometric data captured from the user the client device receives a request to access the selected content source. For example the client device receives a request to access an application or receives a request to access a network address associated with a third party system . In response to receiving the request to access the selected content source the client device captures biometric data of a user associated with the client device when the request was received via one or more biometric sensors . For example the client device captures one or more fingerprints of the user associated with the client device when the request was received however any suitable biometric data may be captured from the user associated with the client device when the request was received .

The client device determines whether the stored biometric data associated with the user matches the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received . For example the client device calculates a measure of similarity between the stored biometric data and the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received . If the measure of similarity has less than a threshold value the client device determines the stored biometric data associated with the user does not match the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received and denies the user associated with the client device when the request was received access to the authentication information associated with the selected content source and stored by the client device .

However if the client device determines the stored biometric data associated with the user matches the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received the client device retrieves the authentication information associated with the selected content source stored in the client device . For example if a measure of similarity between the stored biometric data associated with the user and the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received has at least a threshold value the authentication information stored by the client device is retrieved . In some embodiments additional information may be requested from the user after determining that the stored biometric data associated with the user matches the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received . For example if the stored authentication information is encrypted the user associated with the client device having biometric data matching the stored biometric data is prompted for a key to decrypt the stored authentication information. In some embodiments additional biometric data may be captured by the client device to decrypt the stored authentication information after determining that the stored biometric data associated with the user matches the biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received .

The client device communicates the retrieved authentication information to the selected content source which provides content to the client device for presentation. For example the client device communicates the retrieved authentication information to a third party system which subsequently provides content to the client device . As another example the client device communicates the authentication information to an application executing by the client device which subsequently presents content to the user via the client device .

In other embodiments the client device may present information received from the selected content source and stored in the client device using biometric data stored by the client device if stored biometric data associated with the user matches biometric data captured from the user associated with the client device when the request to access the selected content source was received . For example the client device stores account information received from the selected content source using stored biometric data and presents the account information to a user requesting the account information that has biometric data matching biometric data stored by the client device . Additionally the selected content source may provide information to the client device to be stored using the stored biometric data at various time intervals. For example the selected content source may communicate updated account information to the client device at a periodic interval and indicate that the updated account information is to be stored with increased security so the client device stores the updated account information in the secure storage device limiting access to the updated account information to a user with biometric data matching the stored biometric data.

The client device retrieves data describing prior user interactions with various content sources. In some embodiments the client device stores data describing interactions between a user and different content sources subject to user privacy settings. For example one or more timestamps indicating dates and times when the user accessed a content source via the client device are maintained in the storage device or a usage analysis module of the client device . Alternatively a content source maintains information describing user interactions with the content source and the client device communicates user identifying information to the content source which retrieves and communicates information describing the user s interaction with the content source to the client device . The user may specific one or more privacy settings associated with a content source to limit the information describing user interaction maintained by the content source. For example privacy settings limit the information stored by a content source describing user interaction or limit the accessibility of entities other than the content source to information describing user interaction maintained by the content source.

Based on prior user interactions with content sources from the retrieved data the client device identifies one or more candidate content sources. In one embodiment content sources with which the user interacts at least a threshold number of times during a time interval are identified as candidate content sources. Alternatively candidate content sources are identified as content sources with which the user has a threshold frequency of interaction over a time interval. In some embodiments the client device may identify types of interactions between the user and a content source during a time interval and identify candidate content sources based at least in part on the types of interactions between the user and a content source. For example content sources with which the user performed at least a threshold number of certain types of interactions within a time interval or performed one or more types of interactions with at least a threshold frequency are identified as candidate content sources. In some embodiments content sources are ranked based on the amount or frequency of user interaction with each content source and content sources having at least a threshold position in the ranking are identified as candidate content sources. As another example a score is determined for various content sources based on an amount of user interaction with each content source a frequency of user interaction with each content source or types of user interaction with each content source and content sources associated with at least a threshold score are identified as candidate content sources.

The client device presents one or more of the candidate content sources to the user. For example a set of the candidate content sources are presented to the user and a selection of one or more of the presented candidate content sources is received from the user. In one embodiment the client device presents a listing of candidate content sources to the user and receives a selection of one or more of the candidate content sources from the user. Identifying candidate content sources based in part on prior interactions between the user and content sources allows the client device to simplify user interaction with content via the client device by recommending content sources for the user to use biometric data to retrieve authentication information for accessing the content sources. Allowing a user to retrieve authentication information for a content source using biometric data associated with the user simplifies retrieval of content from the content source by allowing the user to provide biometric data to the client device which retrieves stored authentication information associated with the user for communication to the content source based on the biometric data.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the patent rights to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the patent rights. It is therefore intended that the scope of the patent rights be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the patent rights which is set forth in the following claims.

