---

title: Network assisted access network selection enhancements for a machine-to-machine wireless network environment
abstract: A method provided in one embodiment and includes receiving, at a first network element, a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of each of a plurality of second network elements, receiving a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements, and receiving a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements. The method further includes determining a metric value for each of the plurality of second network elements based upon the first resource indicator, the second resource indicator, and the third resource indicator of each of the second network elements, and determining a list of one or more acceptable network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith based upon the metric value of each of the plurality of second network elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510276&OS=09510276&RS=09510276
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09510276
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141106
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 327 334 filed Jul. 9 2014 entitled NETWORK ASSISTED ACCESS NETWORK SELECTION ENHANCEMENTS FOR A MACHINE TO MACHINE WIRELESS NETWORK ENVIRONMENT Inventor Mukesh Taneja. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to network assisted access network selection for a machine to machine wireless network environment.

Machine to Machine M2M refers generally to technologies that allow wireless and or wired devices to communicate with other devices and may have a wide range of applications in areas such as industrial automation smart city healthcare transportation logistics monitoring and control applications. In a case of industrial instrumentation M2M may include a context in which a device having a sensor captures an event such as a temperature pressure inventory level etc. at a particular location and the device relays the captured event information through an access network wireless wired or hybrid to an M2M server or an M2M gateway or an M2M service platform having an application in an application program that translates the captured event information into meaningful information to be presented to a user or system such as to monitor or control a particular device or system. M2M devices use multiple types of access technologies to communicate with M2M server s . Some M2M devices may use only a single type of radio access technology RAT while other M2M devices may support multiple RATs. Wireless APs and some other network nodes typically have constraints on the number of devices and or active sessions they can support. These limitations may exist not only for scenarios where video surveillance cameras are used as M2M devices but even for scenarios in which M2M devices carry a very low amount of data traffic. Efficient procedures are needed in these networks to help M2M devices select a suitable AP dynamically as part of access selection mechanisms.

A method is provided in one example embodiment and includes determining a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of a first network element determining a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of the first network element determining a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of the first network element and sending the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator to a second network element. The second network element is configured to determine a first metric value for the first network element based upon the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator. The second network element is further configured to utilize the first metric value to determine a list of one or more acceptable network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith.

In more specific embodiments the first resource indicator is indicative of an additional number of wireless devices that the first network element can support in a predetermined time interval. In other specific embodiments the second resource indicator is indicative of a hardware load of the first network element at a predetermined time. In still other specific embodiments the second resource indicator includes a value indicative of either a low hardware load a medium hardware load or a high hardware load upon the first network element. In still other specific embodiments the third resource indicator is indicative of a fraction of flows traversing the first network element for which a quality of service QoS requirement was violated.

In other specific embodiments sending one or more of the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator to the second network element includes including one or more of the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource within a Constrained Application Protocol CoAP protocol message. In other specific embodiments the CoAP protocol message is a CoAP Observe message. In still other specific embodiments at least one of the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator are included in an option field of the CoAP protocol message.

In other specific embodiments the method further includes receiving the list of one or more network elements and sending the list of one or more acceptable network elements to the wireless device. In still other specific embodiments sending the list of one or more acceptable network elements includes sending the list of one or more acceptable network elements within at least one of a WiFi beacon message a WiFi probe response message or a cellular random access procedure message.

In other specific embodiments the first network element includes a wireless access point. In still other specific embodiments the second network element includes a server.

An example of logic encoded in one or more non transitory media according to one embodiment includes code for execution and when executed by a processor operable to perform operations including determining a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of a first network element determining a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of the first network element determining a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of the first network element and sending the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator to a second network element. The second network element is configured to determine a first metric value for the first network element based upon the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator. The second network element is further configured to utilize the first metric value to determine a list of one or more acceptable network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith.

An example first network element according to one embodiment includes a memory element configured to store electronic code a processor operable to execute instructions associated with the electronic code and a module coupled to the memory element and the processor. The first network element is configured for determining a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of the first network element determining a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of the first network element determining a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of the first network element and sending the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator to a second network element. The second network element is configured to determine a first metric value for the first network element based upon the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator. The second network element is further configured to utilize the first metric value to determine a list of one or more acceptable network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith.

A method is provided in another example embodiment and includes receiving at a first network element a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of each of a plurality of second network elements receiving at the first network element a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements and receiving at the first network element a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements. The method further includes determining a metric value for each of the plurality of second network elements based upon the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator of each of the second network elements and determining a list of one or more acceptable network elements from the plurality of second network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith based upon the metric value of each of the plurality of second network elements.

In more specific embodiments the first resource indicator is indicative of an additional number of wireless devices that the second network element can support in a predetermined time interval. In still other specific embodiments the second resource indicator is indicative of a hardware load of the second network element at a predetermined time. In still other specific embodiments the second resource indicator includes a value indicative of either a low hardware load a medium hardware load or a high hardware load upon the second network element.

In still other specific embodiments the third resource indicator is indicative of a fraction of flows traversing the second network element for which a quality of service QoS requirement was violated. In other specific embodiments receiving one or more of the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator by the first network element includes receiving one or more of the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource within a Constrained Application Protocol CoAP protocol message. In still other embodiments the CoAP protocol message is a CoAP Observe message. In still other specific embodiments at least one of the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator are included in an option field of the CoAP protocol message.

In still other specific embodiments the method further includes sending the list of one or more acceptable network elements to a particular one of the plurality of second network elements wherein the particular one of the plurality of second network elements is configured to send the list of one or more acceptable network elements to the wireless device.

In other specific embodiments the list of one or more acceptable network elements is arranged in ascending order of the metric value of each of the acceptable network elements. In still other specific embodiments the wireless device is configured to establish a connection with a particular one of the acceptable network elements having the lowest metric value among the acceptable network elements having an acceptable received signal strength with the wireless device.

In other specific embodiments the first network element includes a server. In still other specific embodiments one or more of the plurality of second network elements includes a wireless access point.

An example of logic encoded in one or more non transitory media according to another embodiment includes code for execution and when executed by a processor operable to perform operations including receiving at a first network element a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of each of a plurality of second network elements receiving at the first network element a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements and receiving at the first network element a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements. The operations further include determining a metric value for each of the plurality of second network elements based upon the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator of each of the second network elements and determining a list of one or more acceptable network elements from the plurality of second network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith based upon the metric value of each of the plurality of second network elements.

An example first network element according to one embodiment includes a memory element configured to store electronic code a processor operable to execute instructions associated with the electronic code and a module coupled to the memory element and the processor. The first network element is configured for receiving a first resource indicator indicative of a first resource capability of each of a plurality of second network elements receiving a second resource indicator indicative of a second resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements and receiving a third resource indicator indicative of a third resource capability of each of the plurality of second network elements. The first network element is further configured for determining a metric value for each of the plurality of second network elements based upon the first resource indicator the second resource indicator and the third resource indicator of each of the second network elements and determining a list of one or more acceptable network elements from the plurality of second network elements for a wireless device to establish a connection therewith based upon the metric value of each of the plurality of second network elements.

Referring to is a simplified block diagram of a communication system for network assisted access network selection for a machine to machine wireless network environment in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Communication system includes a plurality of machine to machine M2M devices a plurality of wireless access points APs intermediate network nodes a plurality of M2M servers a plurality of M2M user and a traffic management analytics module . All the M2M servers shown in could be part of an M2M service platform. Each of M2M devices are configured to be in wireless communication with one or more of wireless APs dependent upon the particular access technologies supported by each of M2M devices and wireless APs . Each of wireless APs are in communication with intermediate network nodes . Intermediate network nodes are in further communication with M2M servers and these M2M servers could be part of an M2M service platform . In the particular embodiment illustrated in traffic management analytics module is in communication with intermediate network nodes . In a particular embodiment traffic management analytics module may be part of the M2M service platform. In still other embodiments traffic management analytics module may be a standalone component such as shown in .

Machine to Machine M2M refers generally to technologies that allow wireless and or wired systems to communicate with other devices and may have a wide range of applications in areas such as industrial automation smart cities healthcare transportation logistics monitoring and control applications. In a case of industrial instrumentation M2M may include a context in which a device having a sensor captures an event such as a temperature pressure inventory level etc. at a particular location and the device relays the captured event information through an access network wireless wired or hybrid to an M2M server or an M2M service platform having an application in an application program that translates the captured event information into meaningful information to be presented to a user or system such as to monitor or control a particular device or system.

In particular embodiments M2M devices may use multiple types of access technologies to communicate with M2M server . Some M2M devices may use only a single type of radio access technology RAT designated as single mode SM M2M devices. For example M2M devices used for energy metering purpose may use 2G or 3G RAT in some examples. Some M2M devices may support multiple RATs such as video surveillance cameras supporting LTE and WiFi RATs or M2M devices that are configured to support multiple RATs because they convey safety critical information such as a gas leak detector or a fire alarm . Those M2M devices supporting multiple RATs may be referred to as multimode MM M2M devices. In the particular embodiment illustrated in M2M device is a single mode LTE device M2M device is a single mode 3G device M2M device is a single mode WiFi device M2M device is a 3G single mode device M2M device is a multimode LTE 3G WiFi device M2M device is a single mode WiFi device and M2M device is a multimode LTE 3G device.

Similarly wireless APs may each be configured to communicate using one or more RATs. In the particular embodiment illustrated in wireless AP is a LTE 3G WiFi AP wireless AP is a femtocell AP wireless AP is a WiFi AP wireless AP is an LTE 3G AP wireless AP is an LTE AP wireless AP is a WiFi AP and wireless AP is a 3G AP. In still other embodiments one or more of M2M devices may support other access technologies such as IEEE802.15.4 or wireline access. Each of M2M servers may be part of an M2M service platform and be configured to receive communications from one or more of M2M devices and provide an M2M service via one or more M2M services or M2M applications to one or more of M2M users

Wireless APs and some other network nodes typically have constraints on the number of user devices and or active sessions they can support. For example LTE 3G small cell APs and even Macro e NodeB can support a limited number of sessions devices. Very high control plane load may result in the network at certain instants if all M2M requests are sent simultaneously. Control plane mechanisms that create this may limitation include one or more of the following security procedures such as re authentication e.g. signaling for security purposes such as AKA including AS SMC and NAS SMC for LTE 3G 802.1X .11i for WiFi lower layer synchronization procedures between M2M devices and the wireless AP session establishment management for large number of M2M devices and an M2M device moving from sleep idle to active state and associated procedures after the movement to active state. It should be noted that these limitations may exist even for the scenarios in which M2M devices carry very low amounts of data traffic.

Very high data plane load may result in the network at certain time instants if data corresponding to a large number of M2M requests or responses is sent simultaneously. Data plane related limitations may exist for the cases where M2M devices produce a large amount of data such as video cameras used in surveillance applications .

Wireless APs typically also have memory limitations. If large number of M2M requests reach wireless APs and corresponding M2M devices are in sleep mode the wireless AP may not even be able to buffer those. It should be noted that an M2M request could be a simple request or it could be carrying certain commands for actuators. It could even be carrying firmware to download in M2M devices.

Additional constraints for cellular M2M networks that impact network wide performance decisions may also exist. Wireless APs can support a limited number of devices or active sessions. Some M2M devices may send a low amount of infrequent data while some M2M devices may send a large amount of data such as video surveillance cameras . Wireless APs may also have high overhead due to control plane signaling including security mechanisms . In addition cellular APs may not hold the context of sessions when those sessions are not active. Further core network nodes may not be aware of the quality of service QoS that can be provided by a particular AP at a given point in time the sleep schedules of M2M devices the caching ability of the AP the number of M2M requests that can be buffered by the AP or the mobility patterns of M2M devices. In LTE 3G networks the random access procedure for network access i.e. RACH for initial access may also be a factor that limits the number of simultaneous active M2M devices that a wireless AP can support.

Additional constraints for WiFi M2M networks that impact network wide performance decisions may also exist. WiFi APs wireless LAN controllers WLCs can support a limited number of devices or active sessions. Some M2M devices may send a low amount of infrequent data while some M2M devices may send a large amount of data such as video surveillance cameras . WiFi APs may also have high overhead due to control plane signaling including security mechanisms . With 802.1x the security context is kept only for a certain duration of time and may need to be created again when an M2M device wakes up the next time. Further core network nodes such as mobility gateways may not be aware of the sleep schedules of M2M devices the caching ability of the AP WLC the number of M2M requests that can be buffered by the AP WLC or the mobility patterns of M2M devices.

Efficient methods are needed in wireless networks to avoid such issues in these networks such as LTE 3G 2G WiFi M2M networks. Existing procedures exist but suffer from a number of limitations. One existing procedure is to randomize M2M requests at M2M servers service platforms if possible such as for delay tolerant M2M requests . However even if M2M servers randomize requests it may still result in very high control or data plane load in the network at certain instants as M2M service platforms are deployed by different vendors and they are only doing local randomization . In such situations additional mechanisms are needed to control traffic peaks in the network.

Another existing procedure is the use of an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF as described by 3GPP TS 24.312. The purpose of the ANDSF is to assist user equipment UE to discover non 3GPP access networks that can be used for data communications in addition to 3GPP access networks and to provide the UE with rules policing the connection to these networks. However ANDSF suffers from a number of limitations. ANDSF is meant for cellular WiFi types of multimode devices and does not work well for single mode LTE or 3G only M2M device in which it may be desired for an LTE 3G M2M device to select the right LTE 3G AP based on desired criteria as further described herein. In addition ANDSF is relatively static and doesn t really take into account changing traffic dynamics at different nodes such as routers APs in the network. It is desirable to use more dynamic mechanisms to solve the problems described herein. For example if a large number of single mode LTE or 3G M2M devices try to establish a session with an LTE or 3G AP that results in increased overhead such as due to random access procedures synchronization procedures signaling for session management and security aspects data plane overhead once control plane access is granted and other factors . This limits the number of M2M and non M2M devices that can be connected in these networks. Several of these factors depend on dynamic conditions in the network and ANDSF doesn t address this dynamism. In addition ANDSF uses Open Mobile Alliance OMA Device Management DM that typically runs over transmission control protocol TCP . Transport Layer Security TLS is used for security purposes between the ANDSF server and the UE. Many M2M devices support lightweight protocols only and may not even support OMA DM in its current form.

Another existing procedure is the current reselection mechanism of the LTE 3G UE. However this procedure is based more on signal strength received by the UE from different APs and does not consider the issues described herein especially for cases when a large number of M2M devices try to communicate with these APs. In addition current reselection mechanisms don t consider dynamic load conditions at upstream routers gateways and downstream M2M Gateways in the network. For example a 3G M2M device may be able to communicate with different 3G APs and the path from these 3G APs to the M2M service platform may go via different routers. In this case it is desired to select an appropriate 3G AP router gateway M2M service platform path that reselection mechanisms alone don t provide.

Another existing procedure is the use of handover and load balancing mechanisms when an M2M device is in active state and communicating data with the network. However these are not used when the M2M device is trying to establish a session with the network e.g. the random access procedure in 3GPP networks or CSMA CA in WiFi networks .

In accordance with various embodiments traffic management analysis module is configured to receive resource indicators from one or more of wireless APs indicative of the available resources of the respective wireless AP and utilize the resource indicators to provide network access selection enhancements to assist a particular M2M device in selecting a particular wireless AP as will be further described herein.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a communication system including a traffic management analytics module for providing network assisted access network selection for a machine to machine wireless network environment in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Communication system includes a first wireless AP and a second wireless AP in communication with traffic management module via intermediate nodes . In particular embodiments one or more of first wireless AP and second wireless AP may be a LTE 3G WiFi small cell AP or LTE 3G macro base station.

In accordance with one or more embodiments each of first wireless AP and second wireless AP is configured to send resource indicators and or other contextual information indicative of particular resource capabilities of the particular wireless AP to traffic management analytics module . After receiving the resource indicators from each of first wireless AP and second wireless AP traffic management analytics module may utilize this information to assist M2M devices in selecting a particular wireless AP to utilize for network communication as will be further described herein.

In one or more embodiments the resource indicators include an indication of the additional number of M2M devices that a wireless AP can support within a predetermined time interval t t T where T 0 from a control plane perspective. This indication may be designated as num additional devices node id j t t T the number of additional M2M devices that the wireless AP having a node ID j can support during the time interval t t T where T 0. In one or more embodiments the wireless AP may make an assessment of how many more devices that the wireless AP can support within that predetermined time period. For example assuming a predetermined time period of one minute for a wireless AP that can support sixty 60 devices in total and is already supporting thirty 30 devices the wireless AP may report a num additional devices indicating that the wireless AP can support an additional thirty 30 devices during the next one minute time period.

It should be noted that in a particular embodiment in which T 0 allows a wireless AP to inform of the additional devices that it can support at that time t and does not make it necessary for the wireless AP to provide an estimate for a non zero time interval. This indicator provides a control plane perspective whereas the data plane perspective is captured indirectly in the QoS violation and CPU load factors further described below.

The resource indicators may further include in some embodiments an indication of the hardware load of the wireless AP at predetermined time t. This indicator may be designated as HW load indicator node id j t the hardware load at a wireless AP having a node ID j at a time t. The hardware load indicator provides an indication of the current hardware load on the wireless AP or base station . In particular embodiments the wireless AP may take into account such factors as the processing power of the CPU of the wireless AP the bandwidth capabilities of the wireless AP etc. In particular embodiments the hardware load indicator HW load indicator node id j t may be indicated by a value indicative of either a low medium or high load upon the wireless AP.

The resource indicators may further include in some embodiments an indication of the fraction of flows for which a quality of service QoS requirement was violated considering the flows traversing through that wireless AP belonging to a particular QoS class c. The time interval for QoS violation is indicated as t t 0

Here actual bytes served f t t is the number of bytes served for flow f by that wireless AP during time interval t t 0

It should be noted that Note that frac qos viol indicator may be important even in the presence of HW load indicator. For example a scenario may exist in which HW load indicator indicating utilization of HW resources of a wireless AP such as CPU memory bus bandwidth etc. is medium but frac qos viol indicator could be even high . This may occur because there may be many devices communicating via that wireless AP that may be experiencing quite bad channel conditions. Once channel conditions experienced by these devices improve the wireless AP may need to provide additional hardware resources to enable these devices to obtain their required QoS over a certain time duration.

Upon receiving the resource indicators i.e. num additional devices HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator from one or more wireless APs that provide connectively to M2M devices traffic management analytics module maintains the resource indicators within a context table. An example of a context table maintained by traffic management analytics module is shown in Table 2. The context table of Table 2 stores resource indicators for each of three wireless APs m1 m2 m3 including a node ID containing an identifier of the wireless AP an indication of the RAT supported by the wireless AP number additional devices frac qos viol indicator and HW load indicator. Examples of identifiers that may be used for node id include an IP address a 3GPP identifier an IEEE 802 identifier or any other suitable wireless AP identifier.

In particular embodiments traffic management analytics module may use these resources indicators as well as optionally other parameters to run algorithms to assist M2M devices in determining to which particular wireless APs to establish connectivity as will be further described herein. In particular embodiments the resource indicators may be provided via Constrained Application Protocol CoAP an extension of an existing cellular WiFi wireline communication protocol or a custom protocol.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of direct communication of resource indicators from wireless APs to traffic management analytics module in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the embodiment of a first LTE AP a second LTE AP a first 3G AP a second 3G AP a first WiFi AP and second WiFi AP each communicate resource indicators including num additional devices HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator to traffic management analytics module via intermediate nodes . In the embodiment of an enhanced Constrained Application Protocol CoAP protocol is used to communicate the resource indicators from the wireless APs to traffic management analytics module . Constrained Application Protocol CoAP as being defined in the IETF s CORE group is an implementation of RESTful architecture and can be used for end to end communication. Loosely speaking it is a lightweight version of HTTP for constrained networks though it offers new capabilities that are needed for M2M applications. CoAP is an application layer protocol that is intended for use in resource constrained internet devices and makes use of two message types requests and responses using a simple binary base header format. The base header may be followed by options in an optimized Type Length Value format. In particular embodiments the CoAP protocol is enhanced to carry the resource indicators described herein.

In one particular embodiment in which CoAP is used to communicate the resource indicators from the wireless APs to traffic management analytics module the CoAP Observe option is used to communicate the resource indicators.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of communication of a frac qos viol indicator resource indicator from wireless APs to traffic management analytics module using CoAP in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In traffic management analytics module sends a request to receive a frac qos viol indicator resource indicator from a particular wireless AP such as a WLAN LTE or 3G AP using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Get frac qos viol indicator Observe 0 and Token 0x4a. In response to receiving the request wireless AP notifies traffic management analytics module of frac qos viol indicator based upon one or more policies. For example wireless AP may notify traffic management analytics module whenever a change in frac qos viol is above a predetermined threshold. In an alternative embodiment wireless AP may notify traffic management analytics module of frac qos viol indicator periodically.

In wireless AP sends a notification of the current state of frac qos viol indicator at a time of time1 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time1 Token 0x4a and a payload of frac qos viol indicator. In wireless AP sends a notification of the state of frac qos viol indicator at a time of time2 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time2 Token 0x4a and a payload of frac qos viol indicator. In wireless AP sends a notification of the current state of frac qos viol indicator at a time of time3 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time3 Token 0x4a and a payload of frac qos viol indicator.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of communication of a HW load indicator resource indicator from wireless APs to traffic management analytics module using CoAP in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In traffic management analytics module sends a request to receive a HW load indicator resource indicator from a particular wireless AP using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Get HW load indicator Observe 0 and Token 0x5a. In response to receiving the request wireless AP notifies traffic management analytics module of HW load indicator based upon one or more policies. For example wireless AP may notify traffic management analytics module whenever a change in HW load indicator is above a predetermined threshold. In an alternative embodiment wireless AP may notify traffic management analytics module of HW load indicator periodically.

In wireless AP sends a notification of the current state of HW load indicator at a time of time1 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time1 Token 0x5a and a payload of HW load indicator. In wireless AP sends a notification of the state of HW load indicator at a time of time2 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time2 Token 0x5a and a payload of HW load indicator. In wireless AP sends a notification of the current state of HW load indicator at a time of time3 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time3 Token 0x5a and a payload of HW load indicator.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of communication of a num additional devices resource indicator from wireless APs to traffic management analytics module using CoAP in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In traffic management analytics module sends a request to receive a num additional devices resource indicator from a particular wireless AP using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Get num additional devices Observe 0 and Token 0x7a. In response to receiving the request wireless AP notifies traffic management analytics module of num additional devices based upon one or more policies. For example wireless AP may notify traffic management analytics module whenever a change in num additional devices is above a predetermined threshold. In an alternative embodiment wireless AP may notify traffic management analytics module of num additional devices periodically.

In wireless AP sends a notification of the current state of num additional devices at a time of time1 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time1 Token 0x7a and a payload of num additional devices. In wireless AP sends a notification of the state of num additional devices at a time of time2 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time2 Token 0x7a and a payload of num additional devices. In wireless AP sends a notification of the current state of num additional devices at a time of time3 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time3 Token 0x7a and a payload of num additional devices.

Referring now to is a diagram of a CoAP packet for communicating resource indicators from wireless APs to traffic management analytics module in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. As an alternative to the embodiments described in illustrates adding a new CoAP Option field including the frac qos viol indicator HW load indicator and num additional devices resource indicators being included within the same CoAP packet . In particular embodiments this may reduce overhead as these resource indicators may be piggybacked on other CoAP messages.

Referring now to illustrates an example embodiment of CoAP option formats for conveying the resource indicators in option field of the CoAP packet of . In the embodiment of the additional number devices option is an integer having a length of 2 bytes the HW load indicator option is an integer having a length of 1 byte and frac qos viol indicator option is an integer having a length of 1 byte.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of communication of resource indicators from wireless APs to traffic management analytics module via one or more network controllers in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the embodiment of first LTE AP and second LTE AP are in communication with a first network controller such as a Mobility Management Entity MME . First network controller is in further communication with traffic management analytics module . First 3G AP and second 3G AP are in communication with a second network controller such as a Radio Network Controller RNC . Second network controller is in further communication with traffic management analytics module . First WiFi AP and second WiFi AP are in communication with a third network controller such as a wireless LAN controller WLC . Third network controller is in further communication with traffic management analytics module .

In the embodiment of first LTE AP and second LTE AP each communicate resource indicators including num additional devices HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator to first network controller MME first 3G AP and second 3G AP each communicate resource indicators including num additional devices HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator to second network controller RNC and first WiFi AP and second WiFi AP each communicate resource indicators including num additional devices HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator to third network controller WLC . First network controller MME second network controller RNC and third network controller WLC are configured to communicate the resource indicators received from the respective wireless APs to traffic management analytics module .

In the embodiment of first LTE AP and second LTE AP convey the resource indicator values to first network controller MME using an enhanced S1 application protocol S1 AP message. Table 3 describes a new S1 AP resource status message according to at least one embodiment and differences between an existing X2 AP resource message as described in 3GPP TS 36.423 and the new S1 AP option.

As shown in Table 3 the existing X2 AP resource status message as described in 3GPP 36.423 allows one eNodeB to convey a hardware load indicator and radio resource indicator to another eNodeB. The new S1 AP as described according to at least one embodiment allows an AP such as an eNodeB to convey a hardware load indicator an indicator of a number of additional devices that can be supported by that AP and an indicator of a fraction of flows associated with the AP for which QoS was violated to a network controller such as an MME . In a particular embodiment LTE AP and LTE may send the S1 AP message including the resource indicators to first network controller MME and first network controller MME may send an S1 AP resource indicators acknowledgement to each of LTE AP and LTE to confirm receipt of the resource indicators. In still another particular embodiment first network controller MME may send an S1 AP resource indicators request message to each of LTE AP and LTE and each of LTE AP and LTE may send an S1 AP resource indicators response message including the requested resource indicators to first network controller MME . First network controller MME is further configured to communicate the resource indicators received from LTE AP and LTE to traffic management analytics module using an enhanced CoAP protocol as previously described herein.

In the embodiment of first 3G AP and second 3G AP are configured to convey the resource indicators to second network controller RNC using an enhanced Iub message. Iub is a 3GPP interface used to convey information between a 3G AP and an RNC. In accordance with a particular embodiments an Iub message is enhanced to include the resource indicators. Second network controller RNC is further configured to communicate the resource indicators received from 3G AP and 3G to traffic management analytics module using an enhanced CoAP protocol as previously described herein.

In the embodiment of first WiFi AP and second WiFi AP are configured to convey the resource indicators to third network controller WLC using an enhanced Control And Provisioning of Wireless Access Points CAPWAP protocol. The CAPWAP protocol is a standard interoperable networking protocol that enables a central wireless LAN Access Controller to manage a collection of wireless APs and is described in RFC 5415. Third network controller WLC is further configured to communicate the resource indicators received from WiFi AP and WiFi to traffic management analytics module using an enhanced CoAP protocol as previously described herein.

Referring now to illustrates an example embodiment of a CAPWAP The Control and Provisioning of Wireless Access Point resource indicator message for sending resource indicators from an access point to a wireless LAN controller. CAPWAP resource indicator message includes standard CAPWAP fields as in IETF RFC 5415 and RFC 5416 . Standard CAPWAP fields may include a preamble a header length HLEN field a RID field a WBID field one or more flags a fragment ID field a fragment offset field an RSVD field an optional radio MAC address field and an optional wireless Specific Information Field. CAPWAP resource message further includes a Message Type field having an indication of a new message type for resource indicators from AP to WLC a sequence number message length field a message element length field and one or more flags . CAPWAP resource message further includes a field including an indication of the number of additional devices that the AP can support and a field including a hardware load indicator indicating the hardware load of the AP. CAPWAP resource message further includes a first QoS violation indicator field including an indication of the fraction of flows for which QoS was violated for a first class of flows QoS class c and second QoS violation indicator field including an indication of the fraction of flow for which QoS was violated for a second class of flows QoS class c1 . Although the particular example illustrated in includes two QoS violation indicator fields it should be understood that in other examples CAPWAP resource message may be configured to include one or more QoS violation indicator fields. In still other embodiments CoAP based methods may be used to send resource indicators from first WiFi AP and second WiFi AP to third network controller WLC 

In one particular embodiment in which CoAP is used to communicate the resource indicators from the network controllers e.g. MME RNC WLC to traffic management analytics module the CoAP Observe option is used to communicate the resource indicators.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of communication of frac qos viol indicator resource indicators associated with one or more wireless APs from a network controller such as one or more of network controllers to traffic management analytics module using CoAP in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In traffic management analytics module sends a request to receive one or more frac qos viol indicator resource indicators from a particular network controller such as an MME RNC or WLC using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Get frac qos viol indicator Observe 0 and Token 0xda. In response to receiving the request controller notifies traffic management analytics module of the one or more frac qos viol indicator resource indicator based upon one or more policies. For example network controller may notify traffic management analytics module whenever a change in frac qos viol is above a predetermined threshold. In an alternative embodiment network controller may notify traffic management analytics module of frac qos viol indicator periodically.

In network controller sends a notification of the current state of frac qos viol indicator for a number of APs AP id 1 AP id m at a time of time1 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time1 Token 0x4a and a payload of frac qos viol indicator resource indicators for APs having AP id 1 to AP id m . In network controller sends a notification of a state change of frac qos viol indicator resource indicators for an AP id y and an AP id 2 at a time of time2 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time2 Token 0xda and a payload of frac qos viol indicator for AP id y and an AP id 2.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of communication of a HW load indicator resource indicator from network controllers to traffic management analytics module using CoAP in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In traffic management analytics module sends a request to receive a HW load indicator resource indicator from a particular network controller using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Get HW load indicator Observe 0 and Token 0x5a. In response to receiving the request network controller notifies traffic management analytics module of HW load indicator based upon one or more policies. For example network controller may notify traffic management analytics module whenever a change in HW load indicator is above a predetermined threshold. In an alternative embodiment network controller may notify traffic management analytics module of HW load indicator periodically.

In network controller sends a notification of the current state of HW load indicator at a time of time1 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time1 Token 0x5a and a payload of HW load indicator indicative of the hardware load of APs having AP id 5 and AP id 7. In controller sends a notification of a change of state of the HW load indicator resource indicator for AP id 1 and AP id 2 at a time of time2 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time2 Token 0x5a and a payload of the HW load indicator resource indicator for AP id 1 and AP id 2.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of communication of a num additional devices resource indicator from network controllers to traffic management analytics module using CoAP in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In traffic management analytics module sends a request to receive a num additional devices resource indicator from network controller using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Get num additional devices Observe 0 and Token 0x7a. In response to receiving the request network controller notifies traffic management analytics module of num additional devices based upon one or more policies. For example network controller may notify traffic management analytics module whenever a change in num additional devices is above a predetermined threshold. In an alternative embodiment network controller may notify traffic management analytics module of num additional devices periodically.

In network controller sends a notification of the current state of num additional devices at a time of time1 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time1 Token 0x7a and a payload of num additional devices resource indicators for AP id 1 and AP id 2. In wireless AP sends a notification of the state change of num additional devices at a time of time2 using a CoAP Observe message having an option including content of Observe time2 Token 0x7a and a payload of num additional devices resource indicators for AP id 1 and AP id 2.

Referring now to is a simplified flowchart that illustrates example operations associated with determining resource indicators associated with a wireless AP such as one or more of wireless APs and sending the resource indicators to traffic management analysis module in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the wireless AP determines the number of additional devices that can be supported by the wireless access point as previously described herein. In the wireless AP sends a first resource indicator indicative of a number of additional devices that can be supported by the wireless AP such as the num additional devices resource indicator described herein. In the wireless AP determines a hardware load of the wireless AP as described herein. In the wireless AP sends a second resource indicator indicative of the hardware load of the wireless AP such as the HW load indicator as described herein.

In the wireless AP determines a fraction of flows for which QoS was violated for flows associated with the access point as previously described herein. In the wireless AP sends a third resource indicator indicative of the fraction of flows for which QoS was violated for flows associated with the access point such as the frac qos viol indicator as previously described herein. The operations then end.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a communication system for enhancing access network selection for a machine to machine wireless device using traffic management analytics module in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Communication system includes a first M2M device d1 and a second M2M device d2 . Communication system further includes a number of wireless APs in communication with traffic management analytics module . First AP AP1 has a first coverage area second AP AP2 has a second coverage area third AP AP3 has a third coverage area fourth AP AP4 has a fourth coverage area and fifth AP AP5 has a fifth coverage area

In the particular embodiment illustrated in AP2 AP3 AP4 and AP5 represent a candidate list of APs for AP1 including APs that have overlapping areas in terms of coverage with AP1 . For each AP a neighborhood cluster may be created using typical self organizing network SON and or network planning techniques in particular embodiments. M2M device d1 should ideally choose between AP1 AP2 and AP3 . M2M device d2 should ideally choose between AP1 AP4 and AP5 . In particular embodiments these APs may be configured to support the same or different RATs such as WLAN LTE 3G . In addition one or more of the M2M devices may be configured to support one or multiple RATs. For example a video camera for surveillance purposes may support multiple RATs while a low end M2M device may support one RAT only. In another example a low end M2M device that is used for safety critical purposes may support multiple RATs. In accordance with one or more embodiments traffic management analytics module is configured to determine and provide a list of good and or acceptable candidate APs to M2M devices to assist the M2M devices in selection of an appropriate AP for network access. Resource indicators as previously described herein are communicated to traffic management analytics module and traffic management analytics module generates a list of candidate APs for each M2M device based upon the received resource indicators generates a network selection metric for each candidate AP and provides the list of candidate APs and associated network selection metric to each M2M device.

In one or more embodiments traffic management analytics module receives the resource indicators including num additional devices HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator from one or more different AP and computes a network selection metric from one or more of the resource indicators to assist the M2M devices in selecting an AP for network access.

In at least one embodiment a network selection metric metricis defined using the HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator resource indicators as follows metric HW load indicator frac qos viol indicator HW load indicator frac qos viol indicator Here HW load indicator is a configurable parameter and it is dependent on HW load indicator itself. Table 3 and Table 4 illustrate examples of computation of the metric HW load indicator frac qos viol indicator .

Table 4 provides an example of computing the network selection metric with three step values for HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator. It should be noted from Table 3 metric 

Given a choice a M2M device should select an AP with a lower value of metricif other factors such as received signal strength from that AP and the additional number of devices that can be supported on that AP are not significantly different.

Table 5 provides an example of computing the network selection metric with four step values for HW load indicator and frac qos viol indicator.

Defining another measure for an indication of a number of devices that can supported per AP as used in computation of the metric is as follows num additional devices normalized min num additional devices additional devices threshold Here additional device threshold is a configurable threshold. It is used to represent a number of devices that can be supported across different types of APs such as Femto Pico Metro Macro APs and can vary over a wide range. In accordance with the particular example metric these values are first normalized these values as indicated above and then the maximum value of that bounded is kept by a configurable threshold for the purpose of the computation of metric. An example is given in Table 5 where additional devices threshold is taken to be 3.

In addition to APs some other GWs routers in the network also have limitations on the number of devices and or sessions that they can support. For example a Home e NodeB gateway can support a certain fixed number of active devices sessions. Other gateways or network nodes may also have limitations on the number of devices and or sessions that can be supported. Multiple WiFi APs may be communicating via one or more gateways. These APs may be able to support a higher number of active devices sessions than the active sessions devices that can be supported by other gateway types. Similar situation may exist for gateways with multiple Cellular APs communicating via the gateway. Accordingly in one or more embodiments the resource indicators can also used to determine a value of additional devices threshold such as shown in Table 6.

In other embodiments a network selection metric is defined using the metric in addition to the resource indicator indicative of the number of additional devices that can be supported on an AP as follows 

In one or more embodiments this network selection metric is computed for each AP and it is used to select a list of good candidate APs in the neighborhood of any given AP. One or more M2M devices may use this information along with received signal strength from each AP to decide a suitable AP for network access.

Referring now to is a simplified flowchart that illustrates example operations associated with traffic management analytics module for enhancing access network selection for a machine to machine wireless device in accordance with one embodiment. In traffic management analytics module receives resource indicators from one or more of APs and or wireless controllers or wireless gateways. In accordance with at least one embodiment the resource indicators include a hardware load indicator of the AP HW load indicator an indicator of the fraction of QoS violations for flows associated with the AP frac qos viol indicator and indication of number of devices and or sessions that can be supported by APs or gateways as previously described herein.

In traffic management analytics module determines a list of neighboring APs with overlapping coverage area for a given APi for example AP1 . In particular embodiments the determination of neighboring APs may be based upon information obtained from SON and or network planning servers.

In traffic management analytics module computes a network selection metric for each neighboring AP of APi based upon the resource indicators obtained by traffic management analytics module including one or more of the hardware load indicator the indicator of the fraction of QoS violations and the number of additional devices that may be supported for each AP. In a particular embodiment in which HW load indicator and fraq qos viol indicator are available to traffic management analytics module the network selection metric for each AP may be determined as follows metric HW load indicator frac qos viol indicator HW load indicator frac qos viol indicator

In a particular embodiment in which HW load indicator fraq qos viol indicator and numb additional devices are available to traffic management analytics module the network selection metric for each AP may be determined as follows 

In traffic management analytics module creates an acceptable list of candidate APs for a particular M2M device such as M2M device d1 trying to access APi. The candidate APs are arranged according to the value of the network selection metric for each AP. In traffic management analytics module sends the candidate AP list to the M2M device via an AP. In the M2M device selects the particular AP for access to the network based upon received signal strength from the M2M device to the AP and the network selection metric. A candidate AP with a lower value of network selection metric is preferred for selection over a candidate AP with a higher value of the network selection metric. In particular embodiments the M2M device may select the AP having both the lowest value of the network selection metric and an acceptable signal strength. The operations then end.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a communication system for providing a candidate AP list to an M2M device for providing network assisted access network selection in accordance with one embodiment. Communication system includes a first M2M device a second M2M device a third M2M device a fourth M2M device and a fifth M2M device . Communication system further includes a first wireless AP a second wireless AP a third wireless AP a fourth wireless AP a fifth wireless AP and TM analytics module . In the particular embodiment illustrates in first wireless AP is an LTE 3G AP second wireless AP is a WLAN AP third wireless AP is an LTE AP fourth wireless AP is a 3G AP and fifth wireless AP is a WLAN AP.

Each of first wireless AP second wireless AP third wireless AP fourth wireless AP and fifth wireless AP is configured to send one or more resource indicators to traffic management analytics module as previously discussed herein. Traffic management analytics module is configured to calculate a network selection metric for one or more of wireless APs determine one or more candidate AP lists list of good APs for a given M2M device based upon the calculated network selection metrics and send the candidate AP lists to one or more of wireless APs as previously discussed herein. The one or more wireless APs are further configured to send the candidate AP list to one of M2M devices using a procedure that is dependent upon the particular RAT type of the wireless AP as will be further described herein.

In a particular embodiment for communication between a WiFi or WiFi Cellular AP and an M2M device an enhanced WiFi beacon with vendor specific extensions may be used to send a candidate AP list. In a particular example WLAN AP may periodically send an enhanced WiFi beacon message including vendor specific extensions to include a list of suitable good nearby APs for second M2M device . The enhanced WiFi beacon message may be received by second M2M device and the list of candidate APs may be used by second M2M device along with signal strength measurements to select a particular AP to establish a connection and or session therewith. In still another particular embodiment WLAN AP may receive a probe request message from fifth M2M device and respond with an enhanced probe response message including the list of candidate APs. The enhanced WiFi probe response message may be received by third M2M device and the list of candidate APs may be used by fifth M2M device along with signal strength measurements to select a particular AP to establish a session therewith.

Referring now to is a simplified diagram of a MAC frame format for a management frame of an IEEE 802.11 Beacon or Probe Response Message. The MAC frame format includes 24 octets of s MAC header including a frame control field a duration field a destination address DA field a source address SA field a BSSID field containing the MAC address of the AP and a sequence control field. The MAC frame format further includes a frame body and a frame check sequence . The frame control filed of MAC header includes two protocol version bits two type bits four subtype bits one To DS bit one From DS bit one More Frag bit one retry bit one power management Pwr Mgt bit one more Data bit one protected frame bit and one order bit. The value of 00 for the two type bits designates a particular MAC frame as a management type frame. A subtype value of 0100 designates a probe request message a subtype value of 0101 designates a probe response message and a subtype value of 1000 designates a beacon message. In accordance with various embodiments the list of candidate APs may be included within frame body as will be further described herein.

Referring now to illustrates a frame body of a WiFi beacon frame including a list of candidate APs for a particular M2M device according to one embodiment. In a particular embodiment the WiFi beacon frame including the list of candidate APs may be transmitted for example periodically by WLAN AP . Frame body includes in addition to standard fields such as a timestamp beacon interval and QoS capability fields a list of candidate APs for a particular M2M device within the vendor specific extension portion. In particular embodiments the vendor specific extensions may include the advertised APs for the M2M device in that location including an indication of the number of good nearby WLAN APs for the M2M device an indication of the number of good nearby LTE APs for the M2M device and an indication of the number of good nearby 3G APs for the M2M device. The vendor specific extensions further include one or more identifiers for each of the APs. For example for a good nearby WLAN AP a basic service set identification BSS ID and MAC address of the WLAN AP may be included. In another example an access point identifier AP ID for a good nearby LTE AP may be included. In one or more embodiments traffic management analytics module may determine the number of APs to advertise in a particular location for M2M purposes. For example traffic management analytics module may determine to advertise two good WiFi APs only and not advertise any LTE 3G APs for a particular location.

Referring now to illustrates a frame body of a WiFi probe response frame including a list of candidate APs for a particular M2M device according to one embodiment. In a particular embodiment the WiFi probe response frame including the list of candidate APs may be transmitted by WLAN AP in response to receiving a WiFi probe request message from fifth M2M device . Frame body includes in addition to standard fields such as a timestamp beacon interval and AP Enhanced Distributed Channel Access EDCA parameters set fields a list of candidate APs for a particular M2M device within the vendor specific extension portion. In particular embodiments the vendor specific extensions may include the advertised APs for the M2M device in that location including an indication of the number of good nearby WLAN APs for the M2M device an indication of the number of good nearby LTE APs for the M2M device and an indication of the number of good nearby 3G APs for the M2M device. The vendor specific extensions further include one or more identifiers for each of the APs. For example for a good nearby WLAN AP a basic service set identification BSS ID and MAC address of the WLAN AP may be included. In another example an access point identifier AP ID for a good nearby LTE AP may be included. In one or more embodiments traffic management analytics module may determine the number of APs to advertise in a particular location for M2M purposes. For example traffic management analytics module may determine to advertise two good WiFi APs only and not advertise any LTE 3G APs for a particular location.

In accordance with at least one embodiment for communication between a cellular or cellular WiFi AP and a cellular or cellular WiFi M2M a session establishment procedure such as an initial random access procedure may be used to send a candidate AP list. In a particular example LTE AP may send the candidate AP list to third M2M device during an attempted establishment of an initial random access procedure between LTE AP and third M2M device . In particular situations the list of good candidate APs may be indicated to M2M device upon failure of the initial random access procedure. In other particular examples the list of good candidate APs may be indicated to M2M device when the initial random access procedure with M2M device but for which required control and or data plan communication is not available with the particular AP. In one or more embodiments M2M device may then use the list of candidate APs in addition to signal strength measurements to attempt to establish a session with an AP.

As a large number of cellular e.g. LTE or 3G M2M devices attempt to join a network via an LTE AP the M2M devices go through a random access procedure such as a random access procedure in 3GPP . In accordance with one or more embodiments the random access procedure provides M2M devices with a list of a few good APs that have coverage in that neighborhood in the one or more of the following scenarios 1 If the number of cellular M2M devices attempting to join a cellular AP is quite high a RACH attempt can fail for some M2M devices. In such cases the cellular AP may provides list of some good APs in that area to such Cellular M2M devices. 2 Even if the RACH attempt succeeds the M2M device may not be able to get required resources because that particular AP may be heavily loaded. In such cases control plane procedures such as authentication and key agreement are not completed and the M2M device is informed about the possibility of some other good APs in that area by receiving the candidate AP list. The M2M device can attempt to connect with an AP from this list.

Random access contention can occur when multiple M2M devices user equipments UEs select the same subframe and preamble sequence for physical random access channel PRACH transmission. If contention occurs the M2M device UE needs to repeat transmission of the PRACH preamble and radio resource control RRC Connection Request message. This procedure fails if the maximum number of preamble transmission attempts limit is reached. Even if RACH succeeds it may still not be possible to go ahead with control and data plane communication because that AP is heavily loaded. If an LTE AP is not able to serve an M2M device that M2M device is given a set of good APs in that neighborhood as part of the initial random access procedure itself. The M2M device can use this information to select a suitable AP. This procedure may also avoid handover load balancing related signaling that will happen in such scenarios in which the M2M device tries to establish a session via an LTE AP that cannot provide the required resources.

Referring now to is a simplified flow diagram of an enhanced access selection procedure to communicate a list of candidate APs to cellular or cellular WiFi M2M devices in accordance with one embodiment. illustrates use of a random access procedure to convey the list of candidate APs to a cellular such as an LTE M2M device in a communication network including a first LTE AP AP1 a second LTE AP AP2 a 3G AP AP3 a WiFi AP AP4 and traffic management analytics module . In a particular embodiment traffic management analytics module is embodied within a server. In the cellular M2M device sends a random access channel request RACH request including a random access radio network temporary identifier RA RNTI to the first LTE AP AP1 . In the first LTE AP AP1 sends an RACH response message to the cellular M2M device on the downlink shared channel DL SCH . The RACH response includes the RA RNTI to address the UE M2M device a timing advance TA uplink resource grant and a temporary cell RNTI C RNTI . In the cellular M2M device sends a radio resource control RRC connection request to the first LTE AP1 on the uplink shared channel UL SCH . The RRC connection request includes a C RNTI an IMSI UE identity or SAE Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity S TMSI and establishment cause. In the first LTE AP AP1 may optionally send a contention resolution message to the cellular M2M device.

The first LTE AP AP1 may then consider the value of its network selection metric as previously described herein. If the network selection metric is not acceptable in the first LTE AP AP1 sends a request message request good AP set to traffic management analytics module requesting a set of acceptable good candidate APs in the neighborhood of the first LTE AP AP1 . In the first LTE AP AP1 receives a response message response good AP set including the set of acceptable good candidate APs from traffic management analytics module . In the first LTE AP AP1 sends the list of acceptable good APs to the cellular M2M device via an enhanced RRC connection setup message. The cellular M2M device may then decide whether it wants to continue establishing a session with the first LTE AP AP1 . Alternately the first LTE AP AP1 may send the list of acceptable APs to the cellular M2M device via an RRC connection release if the first LTE AP AP1 determines that its own score is unacceptable.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a wireless access point AP in accordance with one embodiment. Wireless AP includes a processor a memory element a radio access point and a network selection enhancement module . In accordance with various embodiments wireless AP may include one or more of wireless APs and . Processor is configured to execute various tasks of one or more of the wireless APs as described herein and memory element is configured to store data associated with the wireless AP. Radio access point is configured to communicate using a wireless radio connection such as a 3G 4G WiFi LTE connection with one or more M2M devices. Network selection enhancement module is configured to perform the various network selection enhancement functions of one or more of wireless APs and described herein including but not limited to providing resource indicators to traffic management analytics module receiving lists of candidate APs from traffic management analytics module and providing the lists of candidate APs to one or more M2M devices as described herein.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram of a traffic management analytics server in accordance with one embodiment. Traffic management analytics server includes a processor a memory element and a traffic management analytics module . Processor is configured to execute various tasks of traffic management analytics server as described herein and memory element is configured to store data associated with traffic management analytics server . Traffic management analytics module is configured to perform the various functions of traffic management analytics module as described herein.

In one example implementation M2M devices and wireless APs and wireless network controllers and or traffic management analytics module are network elements that facilitate or otherwise help coordinate the network assisted access network selection activities described herein. As used herein in this Specification the term network element is meant to encompass network appliances servers access points routers switches gateways bridges loadbalancers firewalls processors modules base stations or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In one example implementation M2M devices and wireless APs and wireless network controllers and or traffic management analytics module include software to achieve the operations as outlined herein in this document. In other embodiments this feature may be provided external to these elements or included in some other network device to achieve this intended functionality. Alternatively both elements include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments one or both of these devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

In one or more embodiments M2M devices and wireless APs and wireless network controllers and or traffic management analytics module can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the operations as outlined herein. Additionally each of these devices may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the activities as discussed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. The information being tracked or sent to M2M devices and wireless APs and wireless network controllers and or traffic management analytics module could be provided in any database register control list cache or storage structure all of which can be referenced at any suitable timeframe. Any such storage options may be included within the broad term memory element as used herein in this Specification. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements and mobile nodes can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that in certain example implementations the functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances memory elements can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory elements being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processors could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an EPROM an EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

Note that with the examples provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that the communication systems described herein are readily scalable and further can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of the communication systems as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the previously described activities illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within the described communication systems. Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by various embodiments described herein in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and signaling protocols the teachings described herein may be applicable to other exchanges routing protocols or routed protocols. Moreover although the teachings described herein have been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of the communication systems described herein.

Particular embodiments have been described with respect to wireless M2M devices within an M2M environment. However it should be understood that the teachings described herein are applicable to other wireless devices and wireless environment such as peer to peer P2P mobile user equipment and any other suitable wireless or wireline communication system.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

