---

title: Dispensing device
abstract: A device for dispensing liquid material is disclosed having an ampoule with at least four storage lumens, a mixing tip coupled to a distal end of the storage lumens, and an outlet lumen in fluid communication with storage lumens via the mixing tip. The at least four storage lumens extend axially along the length of an ampoule body, and the mixing tip has at least four gasket seats formed therein, each gasket seat corresponding to one of the storage lumens. The device also includes a first fluid provided in one of the storage lumens and a second fluid having a characteristic different from the first fluid provided in another of the storage lumens. Each of the storage lumens has a proximal gasket sealing the fluids from a proximal end of the ampoule and a distal gasket sealing the fluids from a distal end of the ampoule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09339840&OS=09339840&RS=09339840
owner: Restek Corporation
number: 09339840
owner_city: Bellefonte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141020
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 738 175 now allowed filed Jan. 10 2013 and entitled Dispensing Device which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 652 045 filed May 25 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 652 714 filed May 29 2012 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is directed to devices and kits for dispensing liquids. More particularly the present invention is directed to devices and kits for dispensing multiple liquids separately stored within a single container.

Analytic reference materials are used as standards in chemical analysis for determining the presence and or quantity of a particular substance or analyte. Often the analytic reference materials are contained in glass ampoules that are hermetically sealed. The ampoules must be broken in order to access the analytic reference materials which are then usually withdrawn with a pipette or syringe rather than being poured. The use of ampoules can suffer from various drawbacks including that ampoules can be difficult to open can result in and or contaminate a sample with shattered glass and can be time consuming to empty among others.

Most analytic reference materials are complex combinations containing many different chemical components. Certain analytic reference materials require multiple chemical compounds of known chemical incompatibility. Placing chemically incompatible compounds in the same ampoule causes denaturing and degradation of those compounds. The denatured compounds change an analytic reference materials chemical composition leading to inaccurate chemical analysis. Therefore chemically incompatible combinations are often supplied in a kit having multiple ampoules in order to keep the materials in pristine form until use. This problem is compounded by increasingly complex analytical methods that require an increasing number of components to make up the analytic reference material resulting in so called mega mixes that contain a large number of individual ampoules in an analysis kit. Each ampoule contains a single analytic reference material or a combination of chemically compatible analytic reference materials. The kits require the end user to combine the contents of the ampoules in correct amounts to form the final analytic reference materials. These kits suffer from various drawbacks including the large number of ampoules which must be combined to form a standard solution. The ampoules are time consuming to combine and are prone to end user error during combination. User error along with chemical degradation can lead to undesirable chromatographic peaks or other errors in the data collected from various analytical techniques.

Fluids are also sometimes stored in pre filled syringes but which typically contain a single liquid in each syringe. In general two individual syringes each with their own plunger can be held together and directed to a single output. However those devices are difficult to handle are difficult to depress simultaneously present size constraints and cannot easily incorporate more than two syringes.

In other devices multiple liquids are held in series within a single syringe so that as a plunger is depressed the liquids are released one after the other. These devices suffer from their own attendant drawbacks including that they are not capable of releasing multiple liquids at the same time and are limited by the length of the syringe.

Devices and methods for dispensing multiple liquids not suffering from the above drawbacks would be desirable in the art.

In one exemplary embodiment a device for dispensing liquid material includes an ampoule having at least four storage lumens a mixing tip coupled to a distal end of the storage lumens and an outlet lumen in fluid communication with storage lumens via the mixing tip. The at least four storage lumens extend axially along the length of an ampoule body and the mixing tip has at least four gasket seats formed therein each gasket seat corresponding to one of the storage lumens. The device also includes a first fluid provided in one of the storage lumens and a second fluid having a characteristic different from the first fluid provided in another of the storage lumens. Each of the storage lumens has a proximal gasket sealing the fluids from a proximal end of the ampoule and a distal gasket sealing the fluids from a distal end of the ampoule.

In another exemplary embodiment a kit for dispensing liquid material includes a dispensing device a first fluid provided in one of the storage lumens and a second fluid having a characteristic different from the first fluid provided in another of the storage lumens and a plunger assembly. The dispensing device includes an ampoule having at least four storage lumens formed in an ampoule body thereof and a mixing tip coupled to a distal end of the ampoule body. The storage lumens have a diameter from about 0.01 inches to about 0.25 inches and extend axially along the length of the ampoule body. The mixing tip has a mixing channel and a plurality of gasket seats each gasket seat aligned with one of the storage lumens. The first and second fluids are sealed between a proximal gasket and a distal gasket slidably disposed within the storage lumens. When the distal gasket is seated in the gasket seat the mixing channel fluidly connects the first and second fluids in the storage lumens to the outlet lumen. The plunger assembly is configured to couple to a proximal end of the ampoule of the dispensing device and includes at least four pistons associated with and receivable within corresponding storage lumens.

The dispensing devices described herein include an ampoule having a plurality of lumens that act as isolated containers for analytic reference material subunits to ensure chemically incompatible compounds composing an analytic reference material standard solution are not stored together. Exemplary embodiments are also capable of equivalently delivering the analytic reference material subunits as a single mixture at or just prior to the point of use.

The multi lumen design of the device provides a way for keeping the components separate through the use of gaskets that can be moved from the fluid flow path during dispensing to be received in gasket seats. This allows the analytic reference material subunits to flow past the gaskets and combine in a common mixing channel before exiting the ampoule. As a result a single step both mixes and dispenses the analytic reference material standard solution greatly reducing the number of steps required of the end user and eliminating the risk of error commonly associated with multiple liquid transfers.

Embodiments of the present disclosure in comparison to methods and products not utilizing one or more features disclosed herein require less time for use are less prone to user error have a lower risk of contamination and have a lower risk of broken glass.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

Referring to an ampoule includes an ampoule body and a plurality of storage lumens formed therein extending axially along the length of the body . The ampoule has a proximal end and a distal end . A connecting portion extends outwardly from the distal end . The connecting portion optionally connects to a hollow syringe needle not shown or other device or conduit through which the contents of the ampoule are expelled and its shape is configured accordingly. The ampoule body may be manufactured from any suitable material and may advantageously be formed of borosilicate glass. It will be appreciated however that other glass and plastic materials may also be employed. Depending on the materials of construction and or the intended contents of the ampoule the inner outer or both surfaces of the ampoule and particularly the surfaces of the storage lumens exposed to the ampoule contents may be chemically deactivated or otherwise treated to reduce surface reactivity and reduce solvent adsorption prior to filling.

Each individual storage lumen houses an analytic reference material subunit . The analytic reference material subunits are typically liquid and may comprise a component that is itself in liquid form or a suspension dispersion emulsion or solution of one or more components in a liquid carrier. The size of the storage lumens including both their length and diameter may depend upon the number of storage lumens and the total volume needed for the analytical reference material subunits required to make up a particular analytical reference material as well as the overall ease of use of the dispensing device. The storage lumens are preferably cylindrical and typically have a diameter of about 0.01 inches up to about 0.5 inches.

Although described herein primarily with respect to analytic reference materials it will be appreciated that exemplary embodiments are contemplated for and equally effective for use in other applications in which two or more fluids are preferably isolated prior to mixing but conveniently can be collectively stored and subsequently delivered to the same point of use. For example the multilumen ampoule may be used for liquid medicaments pigments chemical additives and adhesives all by way of example.

The analytic reference material subunit in each individual storage lumen is isolated from each of the other plurality of storage lumens prior to reaching a mixing channel in which the individual storage lumens combine. The lumens terminate at gasket seats which provide space at the distal end of the storage lumens to receive distal gaskets as discussed subsequently in further detail with respect to . For convenience in manufacturing the mixing channel and gasket seats of the ampoule may be constructed as part of a separate piece that is a mixing tip that can be subsequently attached to the ampoule body .

The mixing channel is also in fluid communication with an outlet lumen . The outlet lumen provides a path for the analytic reference material subunits or other contents of the ampoule to leave the mixing channel and exit the ampoule . It will be appreciated that the mixing channel and outlet lumen may optionally be omitted entirely with direct expulsion of the storage lumen contents directly into a separate mixing container.

A proximal end radial cross section a mixing channel radial cross section and a distal end radial cross section are represented in and respectively. Although illustrated with respect to four lumens it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the ampoule is not limited to four lumens. In one embodiment illustrated in and the ampoule may comprise as few as two storage lumens while in other embodiments the ampoule may contain any other number of storage lumens such as six eight ten twelve fourteen or sixteen storage lumens .

In many cases certain chemical components used in analytic reference material solutions are chemically benign with respect to each other and may be present in the same solvent with no ill effects. In this case it is not always necessary to employ an ampoule having the same number of lumens as there are chemical compounds in the analytic reference material standard solution the minimum number of discrete ampoule lumens is preferably greater than the smallest number of analytic reference material solution subunits necessary to minimize or eliminate unwanted component component chemical interactions.

Returning to the ampoule contains four storage lumens radially off set toward a central point. The storage lumens are within the ampoule body as shown in the cross sectional view of while the mixing channel radial cross section in illustrates the cross sectional view at the ampoule body mixing tip interface looking toward the mixing channel and gasket seats as described subsequently in more detail. The four storage lumens are each coupled to the mixing channel which converges to the outlet lumen as shown in in which the distal end radial cross section includes the outlet lumen in a center portion of the ampoule body .

Turning to a lateral cross section of the ampoule having four storage lumens is illustrated in which an analytic reference material subunit is shown within each storage lumen . While illustrated here as having the same volume as one skilled in the art may appreciate each storage lumen may contain a different volume of analytic reference material subunit depending upon the requirements of the final analytic reference material. Each analytic reference material subunit is sealed on the proximal end of each storage lumen by a proximal gasket and on the distal end of each storage lumen by a distal gasket . The storage lumens terminate at the distal end in seats . The seats receive the distal gaskets as the analytic reference material subunits are moved towards the distal end . It will further be appreciated that with respect to and other cross sectional views that the different cross hatching is for purposes of showing different elements and is not intended to refer to any specific materials of construction.

The mixing channel storage lumens and gasket seats are configured to minimize liquid dead volume following deployment of the standard solutions. In order to ensure consistent final concentrations of the mixed solutions the mixing channel is preferably designed in a symmetrical pattern so that the dead volumes of each individual solution subunit retained in the ampoule are equivalent.

The proximal gaskets and the distal gaskets are of any suitable size shape and construction and include any solid object that is sealably inserted and slidably disposed within the storage lumen . It will be appreciated that the characteristics of the proximal gaskets may be the same or different from those of the distal gaskets and further that the characteristics of all distal or proximal gaskets are also not necessarily the same for example in the event that one storage lumen has a diameter larger than that of another.

Preferably the gaskets are constructed of an inert material or are otherwise treated so as not to react with the components of the analytic reference material subunits they contain. Exemplary materials include semi pliable materials having non reactive surfaces such as polyether ether ketone PEEK hard silicone fluoropolymers and particularly PTFE. The distal gaskets are typically spherical or otherwise have a rounded surface which can aid in the smooth transition of liquid from the storage lumens to the mixing channel when the distal gasket is seated in the gasket seat .

In one embodiment the proximal and distal gaskets are both made of Teflon have a spherical shape and are slightly larger in diameter than the storage lumens . In this manner the proximal gaskets and distal gaskets are sized with respect to the storage lumen to provide enough force on the storage lumen to seal it and prevent the analytic reference material subunits from leaking. However the proximal gaskets and distal gaskets are still slidably disposed within the storage lumens to be moved when a pressure is applied which may vary depending on a variety of factors including the elastic modulus of the material used for the gasket and or the ampoule body . For example in one embodiment Teflon balls having a diameter of 0.0625 inches can be used as proximal and distal gaskets in a storage lumen having a diameter of 0.0600 inches.

It is preferred but not required that the entire space within the storage lumen between the proximal and distal gaskets is completely filled with the particular analytical reference material subunit and is free of air gaps or bubbles. The storage lumens may be filled with the analytical reference material subunits during manufacture either manually such as by using a hand held syringe or through automated processing techniques.

A plunger assembly provides a mechanism by which the solution subunits are expelled from the storage lumens and ultimately from the ampoule . Any mechanism for achieving this result may be employed. In presently preferred embodiments the plunger assembly may be configured to use mechanical force such as pistons or other mechanical devices to directly contact the proximal gaskets as will be described subsequently. In other embodiments the plunger assembly may be configured to use pneumatic or hydraulic pressure.

Turning to a plunger assembly is extended through a plunger ampoule interface dock that can be actuated to mechanically expel the individual solution subunits from the ampoule . In one embodiment the plunger assembly includes plunger plate coupled to a piston array having a plurality of pistons . The pistons extend through the plunger ampoule interface dock and into an ampoule retaining portion . A radially extending flange extends outwardly from the plunger ampoule interface dock . The radially extending flange provides a grip for a user. A plunger spring not shown in cross section for purposes of illustration maintains the plunger assembly in a relaxed state.

Referring now to a dispensing device in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is shown in various steps of use as the plunger assembly is depressed with the ampoule shown in lateral cross section for purposes of illustration . The dispensing device includes the ampoule coupled to the plunger assembly . The ampoule is positioned within the ampoule retaining portion of the plunger ampoule interface dock . The plunger ampoule interface dock engages the ampoule and aligns the storage lumens with the pistons . The number of pistons on the plunger assembly corresponds to the number of storage lumens in the ampoule . Each storage lumen receives a single piston at the proximal end . In a fully extended position as seen in the pistons are within the storage lumens of the ampoule in the retaining portion .

Specifically referring to the plunger assembly is fully relaxed with an initial proximal dead space in the storage lumens . The proximal dead space is an open area of the storage lumens between the pistons and the proximal gaskets . A distal dead space is also present in the storage lumens . The distal dead space is an open area of the storage lumens between the distal gaskets and the seats . The proximal dead space and the distal dead space allow for any thermal expansion of the analytic reference material subunits within the storage lumens that may occur during transport or storage. The proximal dead space and the distal dead space are typically occupied by a gas or liquid but can be occupied by any substance or combination of substances allowing for thermal expansion.

As the plunger plate is depressed the plunger spring is compressed the pistons slide axially further into the storage lumens contacting the proximal gaskets . The pistons displace the proximal dead space and move the analytic reference material subunits and the distal gaskets towards the distal end as seen better in the enlarged view of .

As the plunger plate is further depressed the pistons slide further into the storage lumens . The pistons push the proximal gaskets which in turn push the analytic reference material subunits . The analytic reference material subunits push the distal gaskets past the mixing channel and into the gasket seats . A mixing channel gap as better seen in is formed between the distal gaskets and the mixing channel . The mixing channel gap allows analytic reference material subunits to flow past the distal gaskets and into the mixing channel . In the mixing channel the analytic reference material subunits combine to form a combined stream . The combined stream flows from the mixing channel into the outlet lumen and is expelled from the dispensing device .

In the plunger plate is fully depressed compressing the plunger spring . The pistons are fully deployed pressing the proximal gaskets against the distal gaskets . The distal gaskets are fully seated in the seats completely displacing the distal dead space and maximizing the volume of analytic reference material subunits expelled. The total expelled contents of the ampoule form a predetermined analytical reference solution based upon the individual components independently included as subunits in the plurality of storage lumens . While some volume of unexpelled analytic reference material subunits will remain fugitive within the ampoule the design generally ensures that it does so in a manner that minimizes that volume and that retains the relative proportions of the analytic reference material subunits .

In another embodiment a dispensing device has a plunger assembly that includes a fluid dispensing apparatus coupled to the proximal end of the ampoule to expel the contents of the storage lumens by pneumatic or hydraulic pressure. A working fluid is extruded from the fluid dispensing device to the ampoule where it enters the storage lumens . The working fluid contacts the proximal gasket of each lumen and drives the proximal gaskets the analytic reference material subunits and the distal gaskets towards the distal end of the ampoule as the working fluid is further extruded. The working fluid is any suitable liquid or gas substance that preferably does not pass through the proximal gasket . It may be desirable to use a solvent compatible with the analytic reference material as the working fluid so that if any leakage of the working fluid beyond the proximal gasket does occur it will not contaminate the ampoule contents.

Thus when a dispensing device of the plunger assembly is depressed with the ampoule shown in lateral cross section for purposes of illustration a plunger tip portion of the plunger assembly is positioned within a plunger retaining portion of the plunger ampoule interface dock . The plunger assembly has an interior portion with the working fluid provided therein. A fluid driving member is coupled to the plunger plate and slidably disposed within the interior portion of the plunger assembly . As the plunger plate is depressed the fluid driving member forces the working fluid through the plunger tip portion into the plunger ampoule interface dock and then into the storage lumens where it contacts the proximal gaskets . As the plunger plate is further depressed the working fluid continues to drive the gaskets and the analytic reference material subunits until the distal gaskets are seated in the gasket seats in the manner described with respect to embodiments employing a mechanical plunger assembly.

Turning to in another embodiment the ampoule is provided having twelve lumens but which otherwise operates according to the principles already described. The twelve lumens are coupled to a mixing channel which is coupled to an outlet lumen . A proximal end radial cross section a mixing channel radial cross section and a distal end radial cross section are shown in and respectively.

Referring specifically to and the proximal end radial cross section is illustrated with twelve lumens radially arranged about a central point of the ampoule body . The mixing channel radial cross section has twelve storage lumens coupled to the mixing channel . As shown in the distal end cross section has the outlet lumen centrally located within the ampoule body .

Referring now to it will be appreciated that the ampoule has a larger ampoule body to accommodate the twelve storage lumens present in this embodiment with each of the twelve storage lumens provided with an analytic reference material subunit . It will further be appreciated that as the number of lumens increases it may be desirable to decrease the volume of the lumens by providing the lumens with a diameter that is less than about 0.25 inches in embodiments having twelve or more lumens.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

