---

title: Granting permission in association with an application
abstract: A system and method are provided for granting permission in association with an application, the method comprising accessing a website on an application running on an electronic device, the website comprising metadata, obtaining, from the metadata, a unique identifier of a native application, determining, based on the obtained unique identifier, that the native application is installed on the electronic device and that a permission is set in the native application, verifying, in response to the determination, that the native application corresponds to the website, and setting, in response to the verification, the permission for the website, wherein both the application and the native application allow for setting of the permission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336358&OS=09336358&RS=09336358
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09336358
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140325
---
The present disclosure generally relates to applications and in particular to granting permission in association with an application e.g. a native application .

An application may be a native application which is designed to run on a computing device such as a smartphone a tablet computer or a desktop computer. Typically a computing device offers an array of native applications to a user. These native applications may be free or purchased through an application store and installed at the user s computing device.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a system for granting permission in association with an application. The system comprises one or more processors and a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by the processors cause the processors to perform operations comprising accessing a website on an application the website comprising metadata. The operations further comprise obtaining from the metadata a unique identifier of a native application. The operations further comprise determining based on the obtained unique identifier that the native application is installed on the system and that a permission is set in the native application. The operations further comprise verifying in response to the determination that the native application corresponds to the website. In addition the operations comprise setting in response to the verification the permission for the website.

The disclosed subject matter further relates to a computer implemented method of granting permission in association with an application. The method comprises accessing a website on an application running on an electronic device the website comprising metadata. The method further comprises obtaining from the metadata a unique identifier of a native application. The method further comprises determining based on the obtained unique identifier that the native application is installed on the electronic device and that a permission is set in the native application. The method further comprises verifying in response to the determination that the native application corresponds to the website. In addition the method comprises setting in response to the verification the permission for the website wherein both the application and the native application allow for setting of the permission.

The disclosed subject matter also relates to a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by a system cause the system to perform operations comprising accessing a website on an application running on an electronic device the website comprising metadata. The operations further comprise obtaining from the metadata a unique identifier of a native application. The operations further comprise determining based on the obtained unique identifier that the native application is installed on the electronic device and that a permission is set in the native application. The operations further comprise verifying in response to the determination that the native application corresponds to the website. In addition the operations comprise setting in response to the verification the permission for the website wherein installation of the native application provides for display of a permissions dialog which indicates that the permission extends to the website.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

As noted above an application may be a native application which is designed to run on a computing device such as a smartphone a tablet computer or a desktop computer. Typically a computing device offers an array of native applications to a user. These native applications may be free or purchased through an application store and installed at the user s computing device.

One feature of native applications is that they may grant permissions upon installation by the user to access information associated with the device for example location storage camera or microphone access. However limitations associated with extending permissions from a native application to a website corresponding to the native application may negatively impact user experience on computing devices.

In some aspects a website visited by a user may request location information of the computing device. A native application corresponding to the website may already be installed on the device and grant permission e.g. granted upon installation to location information of the computing device. However permission to location information is not extended from the native application to the corresponding website. For example an information bar may be displayed on the website to request permission to location information. Thus redundant information e.g. location permission requests may be provided to the user. In addition the user may need to perform an extra step to grant permission to the website.

The subject disclosure provides for granting permission in association with an application. A website comprising metadata is accessed on an application running on a system. The application may be a web browser. A unique identifier of a native application is obtained from the metadata included in the website. The metadata may comprise a metatag or HTML code for identifying the native application.

Based on the obtained unique identifier a determination may be made that the native application is installed on the system and that a permission is set in the native application. In response to the determination a verification can be made that the native application corresponds to the website. The verification that the native application corresponds to the website may be based on a determination that a domain of the website matches a preset domain of the native application. In response to the verification the permission is set for the website.

Alternatively or in addition based on the obtained unique identifier a determination may be made that the native application is not installed on the system or the permission is not set in the native application. In this case the system refrains from setting the permission for the website.

A request to verify that the native application corresponds to the website may be transmitted to a server e.g. a digital distribution platform for installing native applications . The request may include the obtained unique identifier. In response to the transmitted request a verification that the native application corresponds to the website may be received from the server. Alternatively or in addition at least one of an operating system on the system or the native application on the system may be accessed to verify that the native application corresponds to the website.

The permission may include permission for accessing processing and or modifying information associated with the system. The permission may be for accessing a sensor of the system for example a location based sensor an audio sensor a video sensor and or a motion sensor. The permission may be set for activating one or more of the multiple sensors.

The permission may be automatically set upon installation of an original version of the native application on the system. Alternatively or in addition the permission may be automatically set upon installation of an updated version of the native application on the system. In example aspects both the application and the native application are allowed to set the permission. Display of a permissions dialog which indicates that the permission extends to the website may be provided upon installation of the native application.

Each of computing devices can represent various forms of processing devices. Example processing devices can include a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a network appliance a camera a smart phone an enhanced general packet radio service EGPRS mobile phone a media player a navigation device an email device a game console or a combination of any these data processing devices or other data processing devices. Computing devices and may be provided access to or receive application software executed or stored on any of the other computing systems and .

Computing device may be any system or device having a processor a memory and communications capability for providing content to the electronic devices. In some example aspects server can be a single computing device for example a computer server. In other embodiments server can represent more than one computing device working together to perform the actions of a server computer e.g. cloud computing . Further computing device can represent various forms of servers including but not limited to a web server an application server a proxy server a network server or a server farm.

In some aspects the computing devices may communicate wirelessly through a communication interface not shown which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. The communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols for example Global System for Mobile communication GSM voice calls Short Message Service SMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messaging Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Personal Digital Cellular PDC Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 or General Packet Radio System GPRS among others. For example the communication may occur through a radio frequency transceiver not shown . In addition short range communication may occur for example using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver.

In some aspects network environment can be a distributed client server system that spans one or more networks for example network . Network can be a large computer network for example a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network or a combination thereof connecting any number of mobile clients fixed clients and servers. Further the network can include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network and the like. In some aspects communication between each client e.g. computing devices and server e.g. server can occur via a virtual private network VPN Secure Shell SSH tunnel or other secure network connection. In some aspects network may further include a corporate network e.g. intranet and one or more wireless access points.

In example aspects server may be a digital distribution platform for native applications which can provide information associated with one or more native applications installed the client device e.g. any of computing devices . Information associated with a native application may include a name a matching website domain one or more social annotations one or more user ratings and or a price of the native application. For example processing device executes computer instructions stored in data store for example to provide information associated with a native application installed on the client device. Information associated with a native application installed on the client device may be retrieved by an application programming interface API of a digital distribution platform for native applications.

In example aspects the client device e.g. any of computing devices provides for granting permission in association with an application. A website comprising metadata is accessed on an application running on the client device e.g. any of computing devices . The application may be a web browser. A unique identifier of a native application is obtained from the metadata. The metadata may comprise a metatag or HTML code for identifying the native application. Based on the obtained unique identifier a determination may be made at the client device that the native application is installed on the client device and that a permission is set in the native application.

In response to the determination the native application corresponds to the website is verified. The verification that the native application corresponds to the website may be based on a determination that a domain of the website matches a preset domain of the native application. The determination may be made at a server e.g. server or the client device. In response to the verification the permission is set for the website. Alternatively based on the obtained unique identifier a determination may be made that the native application is not installed on the client device or the permission is not set in the native application. In this case the client device refrains from setting the permission for the website.

A request to verify that the native application corresponds to the website may be transmitted to a server e.g. server . The request may include the obtained unique identifier. In response to the transmitted request a verification that the native application corresponds to the website may be received from the server. Alternatively or in addition at least one of an operating system on the client device or the native application on the client device may be accessed to verify that the native application corresponds to the website.

At decision block based on the unique identifier the system determines if the native application is installed on the system and that a permission is set in the native application. In some aspects the determination may be made by the application e.g. web browser application on the system. The application on the system may request permission information associated with the native application e.g. permission set for the native application from an operating system on the system.

The permission may include permission for accessing processing and or modifying information associated with the system. In some aspects the permission may be for accessing processing and or modifying the states and or configurations of the system e.g. phone status battery states network states Wi Fi configurations . In example aspects the permission may be for accessing processing and or modifying the services provided for the system e.g. print service text message service remote services and voicemails . In some implementations the permission may be for accessing processing and or modifying data on the system. For example the permission may be for accessing social information on the system e.g. contacts calendar .

Alternatively or in addition the permission may be for accessing and or configuring one or more hardware peripherals associated with the system. In some implementations the permission may be for accessing modifying and or deleting contents of an external storage and or removable storage associated with the system. In some aspects the permission may be for pairing with Bluetooth devices e.g. pairing the system with another device via Bluetooth . In example aspects the permission may be for accessing a sensor of the system for example a location based sensor an audio sensor a video sensor and or a motion sensor. The permission may be for activating one or more of the multiple sensors.

In some aspects the permission may be set in the native application at the time of installation of the native application as will be described in greater detail below with reference to . Alternatively or in addition the permission may be granted to the native application during the operation of the native application e.g. post installation . For example a native application e.g. a map application may request location permission when the user is trying to look for map directions.

At decision block if it is determined that the native application is installed on the system and that a permission is set in the native application a verification is made that the native application corresponds to the website at block .

The verification may include comparing the information associated with the native application and the information associated with the website. In some aspects at least one common owner and or developer of the native application and the website may be identified. In example aspects the verification may include verifying two mappings including a first and second mapping. The first mapping may be a mapping from the website to the native application. For example the website developer may indicate a native application corresponding to the website via the metadata on the website. As noted above metadata can be a meta tag or HTML code for identifying the native application for example in the form of which may be added by a website developer to serve as the native application indicator for the website. The native application may be identified by a unique identifier such as the package name in the metadata. The second mapping may be a mapping from the native application to a website. For example a domain of a website may be determined to match a preset domain of the native application. The preset domain of the native application may be specified by the application developer s .

In some implementations the first mapping may be verified before the second mapping is verified. In some aspects the second mapping may be verified before the first mapping is verified. Alternatively in addition the first mapping and the second mapping may be verified at the same or substantially the same e.g. within a preset duration time.

In some aspects the application e.g. web browser application on the system may query an application programming interface API of a digital distribution platform for applications to verify the native application corresponds to the website. A request to verify that the native application corresponds to the website may be transmitted to a server e.g. server . The request may include the obtained unique identifier. In response to the transmitted request a verification that the native application corresponds to the website may be received from the server. Alternatively or in addition a request to verify that the native application corresponds to the website may be transmitted to at least one operating system or the native application on the system. The request may include the obtained unique identifier. In response to the transmitted request a verification that the native application corresponds to the website may be received from the at least one operating system or the native application on the system.

At block in response to the verification determined at block the system sets the permission for the website. In example aspects both the application on the system discussed in block and the native application corresponds to the website are allowed to set the permission. In some implementations the permission may be automatically set upon installation of an original version of the native application on the system. Alternatively or in addition the permission may be automatically set upon installation of an updated version of the native application on the system. As noted above the permission may be granted to the native application during the operation of the native application e.g. post installation . In some aspects the permission may be automatically set for the website after installation of the native application.

A notification may be provided on the system to indicate that the permission may be automatically set upon installation of an updated version of the native application on the system. The notification may be provided to the user during updating an operating system on the system e.g. terms of service has changed . Display of a permissions dialog which indicates that the permission extends to the website may be provided upon installation of the native application.

In some aspects the permission may be set in the application on the system. The system may refrain from setting the permission for the website if the permission is not set in the application on the system discussed in block . Extension of the permission to the website may be stored in the settings of the application on the system discussed in block . The permission may be revoked by the application discussed in block if the native application corresponds to the website is uninstalled on the system after the permission for the website is set.

Otherwise if at decision block it is determined that the native application is not installed on the system or that a permission is not set in the native application the system refrains from setting the permission for the website at block . The process then ends at end block .

User interface includes an application permissions dialog field . Application permissions dialog field displays one or more permissions requested by an application XYZ on the computing device. As noted above the one or more permissions may include permissions for accessing processing and or modifying information associated with the system. In the example of application permissions dialog field includes a storage permission area a microphone permission area a location permission area a camera permission area a Bluetooth permission area a network communication permission area and a social information permission area . Storage permission area displays permission to storage including but not limited to modifying or deleting the contents of the external storage associated with the computing device. Microphone permission area displays permission to microphone including but not limited to recording audio on the computing device. Location permission area displays permission to location information including but not limited to accessing network based approximate location information and or GPS and network based precise location information. Camera permission area displays permission to camera including but not limited to taking pictures and videos. Bluetooth permission area displays permission to Bluetooth devices including but not limited to pairing with Bluetooth devices. Network communication permission area displays permission to network communication including but not limited to full network access. Social information permission area displays permission to social information including but not limited to reading contacts information on the computing device.

Application permissions dialog field further includes a storage permission extension area corresponding to storage permission area a microphone permission extension area corresponding to microphone permission area a location permission extension area corresponding to location permission area a camera permission extension area corresponding to camera permission area a Bluetooth permission extension area corresponding to Bluetooth permission area a network communication permission extension area corresponding to network communication permission area and a social information permission extension area corresponding to social information permission area . Each of permission extension area to displays that the corresponding permission in permission area to will be extended to xyz.com. In some aspects the website of xyz.com may be verified to correspond to the application XYZ as described in .

In addition application permissions dialog field includes an accept button . The user may accept and commit the one or more permissions and permission extensions displayed in application permissions dialog field by selecting accept button e.g. tap on accept button .

While illustrates seven permissions e.g. displayed in permission area to the subject technology is not limited thereto and can apply to other multiples of permissions as well as to groupings of different permissions. Alternatively or in addition while illustrates seven permission extensions e.g. displayed in permission extension area to the subject technology is not limited thereto and can apply to other multiples of permission extensions as well as to groupings of different permission extensions.

User interface includes an application information field . Application information field displays information including but not limited to one or more permissions granted to an application e.g. application XYZ . One or more permissions may be granted upon installation of the application as described in . Application information field includes a permission area a permission area a permission area a permission area and a permission area .

Permission area displays permission to the states of the computing device for example to read status and identity of the computing device. Permission area displays permission to location information such as GPS and or network based location precise location information. Permission area displays permission to external storage associated with the computing device for example to modify and or delete the contents of the USB storage associated with the computing device. Permission area displays permission to full network access of the computing device for example to view network connections and or Wi Fi connections associated with the computing device. Permission area displays permission to protected storage of the computing device for example to test access to protected storage associated with the computing device.

In addition application information field includes a permission extension area corresponding to permission area a permission extension area corresponding to permission area a permission extension area corresponding to permission area a permission extension area corresponding to permission area and a permission extension area corresponding to permission area . Each of permission extension area to displays that the corresponding permission in permission area to will be extended to xyz.com. The website of xyz.com may be verified to be corresponding to the application associated with user interface as described in .

While illustrates five permissions e.g. displayed in permission area to the subject technology is not limited thereto and can apply to other multiples of permissions as well as to groupings of different permissions. Alternatively or in addition while illustrates five permission extensions e.g. displayed in permission extension area to the subject technology is not limited thereto and can apply to other multiples of permission extensions as well as to groupings of different permission extensions.

Bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of electronic system . For instance bus communicatively connects processing unit s with ROM system memory and permanent storage device .

From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject disclosure. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. Permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject disclosure use a mass storage device for example a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device for example a floppy disk flash drive and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device . Like permanent storage device system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. System memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject disclosure are stored in system memory permanent storage device or ROM . For example the various memory units include instructions for granting permissions in association with an application in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

Bus also connects to input and output device interfaces and . Input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices for example cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations include devices for example a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through a network interface . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks for example the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject disclosure.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software aspects of the subject disclosure can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software aspects of the subject disclosure. In some implementations multiple software aspects can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software aspect described here is within the scope of the subject disclosure. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components for example microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code for example is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits for example application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending webpages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject disclosure.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

