---

title: Method of controlling location monitoring and reporting
abstract: A method comprises: receiving a signal from a first device that is part of a tag, the tag adapted to be affixed to a person or object, the receiving being performed by a processor within the tag; analyzing the signal within the processor to determine whether the person or object is performing a predetermined type of behavior; adjusting a variable rate of transmitting a monitoring signal from the tag, based on a result of the analyzing, the adjusting being controlled by the processor; and transmitting the monitoring signal from the tag to an external device separate from the tag at the adjusted variable rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619988&OS=09619988&RS=09619988
owner: PRECYSE TECHNOLOGIES FUNDING, LLC
number: 09619988
owner_city: Norcross
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140128
---
The present application is a U.S. national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2014 013312 filed Jan. 28 2014 and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 759 079 filed on Jan. 31 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

To ensure safety and security in the workplace it would be desirable to know the location of all employees whose activities may impact themselves others or property. A variety of smart tag systems have been developed which enable tracking of personnel and assets.

When tags are to be used for monitoring the location of personnel in remote locations one of the driving factors in smart tag system design is extended battery life. It would be desirable to enable prolonged use of a tag up to 18 months without a battery change particularly in remote and inaccessible locations such as deserts offshore oil rigs and many others.

In some embodiments a method comprises receiving a signal from a first device that is part of a tag the tag adapted to be affixed to a person or any inanimate object the receiving being performed by a processor within the tag analyzing the signal within the processor to determine whether the person or object is performing a predetermined type of behavior adjusting a variable rate of transmitting a monitoring signal from the tag based on a result of the analyzing the adjusting being controlled by the processor and transmitting the monitoring signal from the tag to an external device separate from the tag at the adjusted variable rate.

In some embodiments a method comprises receiving a signal from a first device within a tag adapted to be affixed to a person or object the receiving being performed by a processor within the tag analyzing the received signal over a period of time within the processor to determine whether a behavior of the person or object is changing substantially over the period of time adjusting a variable rate of transmitting a monitoring signal from the tag based on the analyzing the adjusting being controlled by the processor and transmitting the monitoring signal from the tag to an external device separate from the tag at the adjusted variable rate.

In some embodiments a method comprises receiving a signal from a first device within a tag adapted to be affixed to a person or object the receiving being performed by a processor within the tag analyzing the signal within the processor to determine whether a condition is present the condition being from the group consisting of the person or object performing a first predetermined behavior and the person or object not performing a second predetermined behavior monitoring a location of the tag if the condition is determined to be present and transmitting a signal representing the location from the tag to an external device separate from the tag while the condition is present.

In some embodiments a device comprises a housing adapted to be affixed to a person or object. A first sensor in the housing is capable of generating a signal indicative of a behavior of the person or object. A second sensor in the housing is capable of collecting location data. A processor in the housing is configured for receiving the first signal from the first sensor and analyzing the signal to determine whether a condition is present. The condition is from the group consisting of the person or object performing a first predetermined behavior and the person or object not performing a second predetermined behavior. The processor is capable of controlling the second sensor to collect location data according to a schedule selected by the processor based on a result of the analyzing. A transmitter is provided for transmitting a signal representing the location from the device to an external device separate from the device according to the schedule while the condition is present.

This description of the exemplary embodiments is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description. In the description relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and do not require that the apparatus be constructed or operated in a particular orientation. Terms concerning attachments coupling and the like such as connected and interconnected refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise.

The inventor has provided a method of extending battery life in a smart tag by selecting a location monitoring schedule based on recognition that a person or object to which the smart tag is attached is performing or not performing a predetermined behavior or activity also referred to as a reference behavior.

For example the smart tag can monitor its location and transmit the location to a an external receiver at a low rate such as one report every 15 minutes while the tag senses that it is experiencing ordinary motion or ordinary lack of motion. The inventor has further found that behavior analysis can be performed locally within the smart tag with less power than is used to monitor location and or transmit location reports. In some embodiments when the smart tag senses that the person or object is performing a behavior e.g. motion having characteristics the same as or similar to a predetermined reference behavior the location monitoring and reporting rate is increased proportionally. When the smart tag senses that the behavior has returned to normal the location monitoring and reporting rate returns to the normal low rate.

As a result the location monitoring rate can be automatically increased in proportion to how closely the detected behavior matches the predetermined behavior. Further the increase in the location monitoring rate can be initiated as soon as the smart tag senses that an unusual behavior is being performed. The inventor has determined that undesirable events such as accidents and intentional misdeeds are more likely to occur when an employee is behaving outside of the his her normal prescribed behavior. Thus for example an employee whose job normally involves sitting or walking is more likely to have an accident while running. By analyzing the employee s motion to determine whether the employee is running the smart tag can automatically begin to monitor the employee s location when the employee runs. Should an accident occur the system can pinpoint the employee s location and also has a log of the employee s recent locations from which the events leading up to the accident can be reconstructed.

In another example an employee may work on an offshore oil drilling platform that is accessed by helicopter. The smart tag can monitor the employee s motion during normal activities without collecting or transmitting location measurements. The smart tag can identify when the employee is likely to visit the platform by detecting a motion pattern associated with helicopter flight. Thus when a motion pattern resembling helicopter motion is detected the smart tag initiates or increases the rate of location monitoring and reporting. In some embodiments when the helicopter motion stops i.e. when the employee arrives on the platform the smart tag returns to its regular low rate of reporting. In other embodiments the monitoring continues for the duration of the employee s stay on the platform and stops after the subsequent helicopter landing away from the platform. That is when a motion pattern associated with a trigger behavior is identified the increased location monitoring and reporting continues after cessation of the trigger behavior until after the motion pattern associated with a trigger behavior is again detected. This method of controlling the location monitoring and reporting can be used for any type of event or activity that is immediately preceded and immediately followed by a predetermined behavior.

At step a processor within a smart tag receives a signal from a first device that is part of the tag. The tag is adapted to be affixed to a person or object. In some embodiments the first device is an accelerometer.

At step the processor analyzes the signal to determine whether the person or object is performing a predetermined type of behavior. In some embodiments the processor compares the signal representing a detected motion to a signal representing a single predetermined behavior. In some embodiments the processor compares the signal representing the detected motion to a plurality of signals representing respective a plurality of predetermined behaviors.

At step the processor adjusts a variable rate of transmitting a monitoring signal from the tag based on a result of the analyzing. The adjusting is controlled by the processor. In some embodiments upon detection of the predetermined behavior the location monitoring rate is increased to a fixed rate higher than the normal monitoring rate. In other embodiments the monitoring rate can be varied continuously based on the degree of similarity between the detected behavior and the target behavior.

At step the tag transmits the monitoring signal to an external device separate from the tag at the adjusted variable rate.

This methodology can be used in a variety of contexts and applications. For example shows an example of the method of according to some embodiments.

At step a processor within a smart tag receives a signal from a first device within the tag. The tag is adapted to be affixed to a person or object.

At step the processor analyzes the signal to determine whether a condition is present. In some embodiments the condition is the person or object performing a first predetermined motion. In other embodiments the condition corresponds to the person or object not performing a second predetermined motion.

At step a determination is made whether the predetermined condition is present. If the condition is present steps and are performed. If the condition is not present step is performed.

At step a location of the tag is monitored with increased frequency by a location monitoring device within the smart tag if the condition is determined to be present.

At step a signal representing the location is transmitted from the tag to an external device separate from the tag while the condition is present. At the completion of step the loop beginning at step is repeated.

At step if the predetermined motion condition is not present and the location monitoring rate is set at a high rate the location monitoring rate is returned to its normal low rate. If the predetermined motion condition is not present and the location monitoring rate is set at its normal low rate the location monitoring rate remains at its normal low rate.

In various embodiments a variety of methods are used to determine the location monitoring rate. In one embodiment a single predetermined behavior is identified. The location monitoring rate is normally low. While the behavior is detected the location monitoring rate is set at a predetermined high. When the predetermined behavior is discontinued the monitoring rate returns to the normal low rate.

In other embodiments the processor computes a measure of how closely the current motion behavior resembles the predetermined behavior. The closer the current behavior is to the predetermined behavior the higher the location monitoring frequency. In some embodiments the analyzing includes computing a measure of how closely the received signal resembles a signal corresponding to the person or object performing the predetermined motion and determining the variable rate as a monotonically increasing function of the computed measure. For example shows an example of a location monitoring and transmission rate as a function of the correlation between the measured input motion behavior and the predetermined motion behavior. The higher the correlation the higher the monitoring frequency. The monitoring frequency can be adjusted one time or many times while the behavior is being performed.

In other embodiments not shown the control device includes a fuzzy logic module that determines the degree to which a given input signal from the motion sensor conforms to any one or more predetermined behavior patterns. The fuzzy logic module selects a monitoring frequency by combining the results from each of the comparisons made. For example the control device may contain fuzzy logic membership functions entitled walking slowly walking normally and walking quickly which have overlapping velocity ranges and or overlapping ranges of steps per minute. The controller can decrease maintain or increase the rate of location measurement and reporting based on the respective truth value indicating the likelihood that the output of the motion sensor corresponds to each of these three behaviors.

In other embodiments the system is programmed to adopt location monitoring rates for one or more discrete predetermined activities or behaviors. An input behavior can be identified. Depending on which predetermined behavior s are selected to initiate monitoring any given input behavior may initiate a different predetermined level of monitoring.

The first device e.g. a motion sensor such as an accelerometer is capable of transmitting respectively different signal patterns corresponding to respectively different types of motion. When the processor receives the signal pattern output by the first device motion sensor the processor compares the signal to one or more templates corresponding to predetermined behaviors. The processor is programmed to recognize at least one predetermined signal pattern as representing a performance of the predetermined type of motion by the person or object.

In some embodiments the adjusting includes increasing the variable rate when the at least one predetermined signal pattern is recognized. In other embodiments the adjusting includes increasing the variable rate when the signal is not recognized as corresponding to the at least one predetermined signal pattern. Thus the predetermined condition can be performance of a prohibited behavior or failure to perform a required behavior.

In some embodiments the monitoring signal is the signal received from the first device. That is the behavior is sensed by a device capable of generating an output signal indicating location such as a high efficiency gyro. In other embodiments the monitoring signal is a signal received from a second device and transmitting signals from the second device uses more power than transmitting signals from the first device. For example the person or object s behavior can be sensed with an accelerometer which measures acceleration and the location can be sensed with a second sensor such as a gyro GPS receiver or RF transceiver for communicating with a plurality of radio frequency RF beacons.

In some embodiment the condition for each individual smart tag is selected before the tag is entered into service monitoring the person or object s behavior. In some embodiments the system administrator can individually select the predetermined behavior for each employee s tag based on a job position of the person. Thus for an airplane pilot the signal associated with plane flight is not an event that would cause increased monitoring of the employee s location but the signal associated with helicopter flight can be such an event.

At step in some embodiments the user is given the option of selecting one of two different operating modes a predetermined behavior mode or a learning mode. This can be input by actuating a switch on the tag for example.

At step if the tag is operating in the predetermined behavior mode the system administrator inputs one or more signal templates for the predetermined behavior s . In some embodiments the templates resemble the raw output signal of the motion sensor e.g. accelerometer . This may reduce any transformation of the input signal needed to compare the input to the predetermined behavior signature signal. In other embodiments the sensor output is to be transformed before comparison to the template.

At step the behavior templates are stored in a non transitory storage device in the tag for later use as predetermined behaviors to which input behaviors are to be compared.

At step the tag is placed in learning mode. In the learning mode the tag records and analyzes the output signals from the sensor during a training period and builds its own behavior templates.

At step with the training mode initiated the person is instructed to perform one or more predetermined behavior s . Thus the person may be instructed to walk run jump climb steps two at a time fall drive or the like.

At step the controller samples and records the sensor output signal while the person or object performs one or more predetermined motions. The behavior s is are identified. In some embodiments the identification involves labeling the recorded profile as corresponding to the type of motion the person was instructed to perform.

At step the controller stores a representation of the at least one predetermined motion pattern in a storage device within the tag. Subsequently when behavior is monitored the analyzing includes comparing the sampled signal to the received signal.

At step if multiple behaviors have been sampled and stored in the tag the system administrator can select a subset of the stored behaviors to be used as reference behaviors during operation. Subsequently during operation the analyzing step includes comparing the sampled signal to the received signal.

At step a processor in a smart tag receives a signal from a first device within the tag. The tag is adapted to be affixed to a person or object.

At step the processor within or on the tag analyzes the received signal over a period of time to determine whether a motion behavior of the person or object is changing substantially over the period of time. For example a Kalman filter can be used to determine the normal behavior based on the signals received from the motion sensor and to determine whether the a posteriori state estimate deviates substantially from the a priori state estimate. In some embodiments the processor runs a neural network algorithm to self train the system based on activity during a training period.

At step the processor adjusts a variable rate of transmitting a monitoring signal from the tag based on the analyzing. The variable rate is adjusted by an amount that increases monotonically as a function of a magnitude of the changing. Thus the system can respond to any sudden change in behavior by increasing the rate of monitoring without a priori knowledge of what the behavior will be.

At step the tag transmits the monitoring signal from the tag to an external device separate from the tag at the adjusted variable rate.

At step a determination is made whether the motion detected by the sensor in the tag has returned to the normal motion pattern. If the system has returned to the normal behavior the step is performed. If the system has not returned to the normal behavior the step is performed.

At step the processor in the tag adjusts the variable rate of transmitting a monitoring signal from the tag based on the analyzing to return to the lower normal rate.

Reference is now made to schematically illustrating a block diagram of a smart tag system according to an exemplary embodiment. provides an example in which the smart tag is used with an assisted GPS AGPS system. In other embodiments the method described herein using motion behavior to initiate an adjustment of the rate of location monitoring and reporting can be performed in a GPS system without assisted data.

As seen in the system comprises a service center a ground base station a beacon and a smart tag adapted to releasably affix to a person or object of interest . The ground base station is connected to the service center via IP network . The service center further comprises a central processing server a customer application server connected to the central processing server via a application programming interface and stationary GPS receiver furnished with an antenna . The receiver and the smart tag are adapted for to receive signals broadcasted by satellites . . . via wireless communication channels and respectively. The ground base station is adapted to wirelessly RF communicate with the smart tag via a channel . The stationary GPS receiver furnished with the antenna is adapted to search for and receive signals broadcasted by the satellites available for receiving. As seen in the beacon device has a service zone .

In some embodiments the smart tag affixed to a person or object of interest is situated in the service zone of the beacon device . The smart tag is woken up by either itself when sensing predefined conditions or events such as motion or time elapsed or a command sent from the service center . Being woken up for example by the service center the smart tag receives a signal from the beacon device via wireless communication channel . The aforesaid signal carries ID data of this specific beacon . The smart tag measures parameters of the beacon signal and derives the beacon ID data. Further the beacon retransmits the received beacon ID and signal measurement data to the service center . The beacon ID data enables the service center to determine an approximate location of the smart tag and provide the smart tag with assisted data. This data is generated according to satellite broadcasted signals receivable by the stationary reference GPS receiver .

As discussed above providing the smart tag with assisted data enables the system to reduce energy consumption due to shortening TTFF acquisition assistance and more reliable reception sensitivity assistance for use in indoor conditions.

The smart tag performs signal search according to the received assisted data receives satellite broadcasted signals and calculates pseudo ranges from the tag to the available satellites and . The calculated pseudo ranges are transmitted to the service center for further processing. The central processing server is adapted to calculate a location of the smart tag by means of triangulating the obtained pseudo ranges.

Reduced power consumption comes about because the smart tag is in standby condition and is woken up for a short time on demand.

Reference is now is made to presenting a block diagram of the smart tag . The smart tag has a housing adapted to be affixed to a person or object. The smart tag may comprise a standard GPS receiver or an AGPS receiver an RF transceiver a data bus a microcontroller unit a motion sensor a battery and I O port . In some embodiments the motion sensor is an accelerometer. In other embodiments the motion sensor is a gyro and a separate sensor is provided. The sensor or in the housing is capable of detecting motion and generating a first signal characterizing the motion 

A second sensor is capable of collecting location data. In some embodiments the second sensor is a gyro . In other embodiments the second sensor is a GPS receiver . In other embodiments the second sensor is an RF transceiver in communication with RF beacons .

The tag has at least one non transitory storage medium such as a flash memory containing general operating computer program instructions behavior analysis instructions schedule selection instructions and reference behavior profiles templates .

The processor which can be a microcontroller in the housing is configured for receiving a first signal from the first motion sensor and analyzing the signal to determine whether a condition is present. The condition is one of the group consisting of the person or object performing a first predetermined motion and the person or object not performing a second predetermined motion the processor capable of controlling the second sensor to collect location data according to a schedule selected by the processor based on a result of the analyzing. A transmitter is provided for transmitting a signal representing the location from the device to an external device separate from the device according to the schedule while the condition is present. In some embodiment the transceiver provides the transmitter for transmitting the location data.

As discussed above the smart tag can be in standby condition by default. The tag is woken up by either itself when sensing predefined events such as motion or time elapsed or a command sent from the service center via the wireless RF communication channel . The transceiver receives a signal from the beacon device via wireless communication channel . The aforesaid signal carries ID data of the specific beacon . The microcontroller measures signal parameters and derives the beacon ID data. Optionally a received signal strength indicator and a phase delay or any combination thereof are measured by microcontroller .

Further the transceiver retransmits the received beacon ID and signal measurement data to the service center . The beacon ID data enables the service center not shown to determine an approximate location of the smart tag generate the assisted data and provide the smart tag with the approximate location and the assisted data.

Being provided with assisted data the AGPS receiver searches and receives the satellite broadcasted signals. The pseudo random waveform received by GPS receiver is compared with an internally generated version of the same code with delay control until both waveforms are synchronized. The obtained delay of internal pseudo random form corresponding to the waveform synchronization defines the travel time of the GPS signal from the satellite to the receiver . The obtained delay values are provided via the data bus to the microcontroller unit . The delay values pseudo ranges further are transferred to the service center via an RF communication link for calculating the smart tag location. Thereafter the smart tag restores to the standby condition.

The smart tag is a mobile battery powered device. Therefore the methods described herein secure a long battery service life. The smart tag further comprises a motion sensor enabling the service center to assist tracking the smart tag outside the service area. I O port provides a connection of peripheral devices not shown to the smart tag and two way data interchange between the aforesaid device and the service center .

Reference is now made to schematically illustrating a block diagram of the architecture of the ground base station . The aforesaid base station is a ground communication unit communicating with the plurality of mobile smart tags via wireless communication links.

The base station comprises four independent RF transceiver modules and rack transceiver operating simultaneously. The rack transceiver is required for supporting the frequency diversity mode of operation providing the required capabilities for withstanding external interferences. Microcontroller units and perform management of the data stream in transceivers and respectively.

A central microcontroller unit is responsible for activating and controlling internal operational logic of the base station . A serial port connects peripheral devices to the base station . As seen in the base station further comprises Ethernet chipset for connecting to the Ethernet . The base station is controlled by central processing server via the Ethernet connection .

Reference is now made to presenting a block diagram of the AC DC powered beacon device comprising an RF transceiver capable of transmitting beacon device ID data at the predetermined frequency and time. The beacon device is furnished with an attenuator and the serial or USB port enabling the service center to change over the air a level of emitted power and configuring and maintaining the beacon device respectively.

In the examples discussed above the reference behaviors include motion or lack of motion . In other embodiments the reference behavior is entering a distinctive ambient and the tag has a sensor for sensing the ambient condition such as ambient temperature barometric pressure humidity or a sensor capable of detecting any particular gas e.g. natural gas or carbon monoxide . Such a tag may be useful if it is desirable to frequently monitor activity at a location that has a distinctive ambient. For example if it is desirable to monitor any activity in a desert an ambient temperature or humidity sensor can transmit signals that are analyzed by a processor within the tag the processor can then increase the location monitoring and reporting rate by the tag if the subject enters an extremely hot or extremely dry ambient. The rate can be proportional to the temperature increase beyond normal work environment temperature or proportional to the humidity decrease below normal work environment humidity When the sensor detects that the ambient temperature and humidity have returned to normal the processor reduces the location monitoring and reporting rate by the tag to the normal rate.

In other embodiments the first device senses a body parameter such as temperature heart rate blood pressure blood alcohol content or the like which is indicative of behavior. Such parameters involve correspondingly different types of sensors which can be invasive or non invasive depending on the parameter to be monitored. For example an employee who performs a task involving public safety may be required to periodically breathe into a breathalyzer. The processor in the tag can adjust the location monitoring and reporting rate to an increased rate in proportion to the blood alcohol content or increase the monitoring and reporting rate to an increased rate in proportion to a length of time in which the employee has not breathed into the breathalyzer based on the assumption that an employee who has been drinking is likely to avoid breathing into the breathalyzer . The processor in the tag can return the location monitoring and reporting rate to normal when the employee resumes regular use of the breathalyzer with zero or low blood alcohol content. In another example an employee who handles delicate objects may be prohibited from running while at work. A sensor can sense the employee s heart rate which is likely to be significantly elevated if the employee has been running. The processor in the tag can adjust the rate of monitoring and reporting location based on the detected heart rate.

Thus the first device can be any of a wide variety of sensors which detect a condition that correlated with the subject s behavior or location. The processor in the tag can analyze the signals from the sensor and correlate the frequency of location monitoring and reporting to the behavior. This permits the tag to lower power consumption when the reference behavior is not being performed and increase the battery life without compromising the location log during times when the reference behavior is being performed.

The methods and system described herein may be at least partially embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatus for practicing those processes. The disclosed methods may also be at least partially embodied in the form of tangible non transient machine readable storage media encoded with computer program code. The media may include for example RAMs ROMs CD ROMs DVD ROMs BD ROMs hard disk drives flash memories or any other non transient machine readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the method. The methods may also be at least partially embodied in the form of a computer into which computer program code is loaded and or executed such that the computer becomes a special purpose computer for practicing the methods. When implemented on a general purpose processor the computer program code segments configure the processor to create specific logic circuits. The methods may alternatively be at least partially embodied in a digital signal processor formed of application specific integrated circuits for performing the methods.

Although the subject matter has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments which may be made by those skilled in the art.

