---

title: Method and system for secure branch printing
abstract: Methods and systems for branch printing. A secure print path to a remote printer can be configured from a device from which a print job originates. The secure print path is configured to include secure device communications and secure job spooling. The print job can be routed via port forwarding to the remote printer for rendering (e.g., printing) at the remote printer. Configuring the secure print path can involve employing an SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) and an IPP (Internet Printing Protocol) over an SSL (Secure Socket Layer) to train a print server to determine the optimal pooling path for the secure print path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152360&OS=09152360&RS=09152360
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09152360
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141002
---
Embodiments are generally related to remote or branch printing. Embodiments are additionally related to the configuration of secure print paths to remote print locations.

As computers become smaller and more portable it has become desirable to have increased ability to print to different printers from a portable computer. For example with handheld computers approaching the size of a mobile phone these computers and their users may often be in the vicinity of a printer that the user would like to print to but cannot easily access. This may occur anytime the user is located away from their residence or typical workplace. One example may be the case of a user who has traveled to a different state to attend a conference and wishes to print to a printer at her hotel as well as to a printer at the conference center.

Another example involves branch printing which is a form of printing in which a user at one location e.g. a company headquarters desires to print documents at a remote or branch location. Electronically sending print jobs to satellite or branch locations is a challenging task without additional support infrastructure at each location. Because such remote locations do not offer an IT footprint it is often the requirement of the customer to enable the printing service without additional IT assets or infrastructure which requires expensive and time consuming maintenance.

An ideal candidate for branch printing is a business or organization that has many branches but no centralized network to manage the print assets in each location with each location containing a single print resource. This is seen in many places such as for example hospitality businesses hotels Internet cafes air travel and other businesses where small branches or satellite locations may be present.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the disclosed embodiments and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide a method and system for secure branch printing.

It is another aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for the configuration of a secure print path for use in branch printing.

It is yet another aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for a print path with secure device communications and secure job spooling.

It is still another aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide the delivery of a secure print path to remote locations which requires no on site footprint of additional software or hardware at each location.

The aforementioned aspects and other objectives and advantages can now be achieved as described herein. Methods and systems are disclosed for branch printing. Security for a secure print path a device and secure job spooling can be determined. A secure print path to a remote printer can be configured to include secure device communication and secure job spooling. The print job can be routed via port forwarding from for example a mobile device such as a Smartphone Pad computing device or a laptop computer to the remote printer for rendering e.g. printing of the print job at the remote printer. Configuring the secure print path can involve employing an SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol and an IPP Internet Printing Protocol over an SSL Secure Socket Layer to train a print server to determine the optimal pooling path for the secure print path.

If the remote location is not associated with a static IP address a DONS Distributed Domain Name Services can be employed for determining the dynamic IP of the remote printer. In some embodiments a secure print passcode can be utilized which when activated allows for release of the print job once the print job arrives at the remote printer via the secure print path.

The disclosed approach thus allows a print job to be routed to a printer at for example a branch location of a company or organization in a secure manner using a combination of Distributed Domain Naming Service DONS for discovering the dynamic Internet Protocol IP address of Printers Internet Printing Protocol IPP over Secure Socket Layer SSL for secure transport and Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP for notifications.

Benefits of this approach include for example enhanced user productivity and simplicity in operation with respect to the mobile worker because any print job submitted by the mobile worker is automatically routed to the branch location where the worker is currently located. In addition there is no need for Information Technology IT support to manually provide connectivity at the branch location. Security benefits can result from the routing of jobs over a secure channel and features that permit the job to be released upon supply of for example a secure Personal Identification Number PIN or other passcode or identifier e.g. biometric identification at the remote printer.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

A remote printer is further shown in . It can be appreciated that the remote printer is located at a branch location remote from devices such as devices etc. The mobile devices and or the electronic device can communicate with the mail server via for example 3G 4G cellular communications and or via a wireless uplink . An IP synch component and router communicate with one another and with the remote printer and the mobile print API and the device manager . The IP synch component also communicates with server and as indicated by arrow the DONS service provided by server is updated with IP address changes as needed.

Note that although a printer e.g. a multi function device is shown in it can be appreciated that multiple remote printers can be implemented in the context of system . In the case of a single printer port forwarding may be required. That is all traffic coming from the hosted mobile print service would be forwarded to the printer on site. The use of a DDNS service e.g. server and the IP sync component may be necessary if the customer does not have static IP addresses from their ISP Internet Service Provider . In the case of multiple printer sites each printer can be provided with an external static IP. Then IP filtering on the printer can be configured to only receive traffic from for example mobile print API and servers in the cloud. Note that the term cloud generally refers to cloud computing and its various implementations and incarnations. Cloud computing generally involves the practice of using a network of remote servers hosted on the Internet to store manage and process data rather than a local server or a personal computer.

System allows for the creation of a secure print path to printers at remote locations requiring zero on site footprint of additional software or hardware at each location. The print path uses a combination of for example SNMP e.g. SNMPv3 and IPP over SSL to secure the device communication and job spooling. Port forwarding can be used to route the traffic to the printer on site and DDNS can be employed for branch locations that do not have static IP addresses. Additionally the secure release of the print jobs could be optionally required by adding a secure print e.g. PIN or passcode to release the print job once it arrives at the requested print device such as for example device shown in .

System allows a print job to be routed to a printer at for example a company s branch location securely using a combination of Distributed Domain Naming Service DDNS for discovering the dynamic Internet Protocol IP address of Printers Internet Printing Protocol IPP over Secure Socket Layer SSL for secure transport and Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP for notifications. With system there is no need for Information Technology IT support to manually provide connectivity at the branch location. Security benefits of system include the routing of jobs over a secure channel and a feature that allows the job will be released upon the supply of for example a secure Personal Identification Number PIN at the printer.

Next as shown at block a test can be performed to determine if the remote or branch location is associated with a static IP address. If so then DDNS is used for determining the dynamic IP of the remote printer s as shown at block . If not then the operation depicted at block can be processed wherein the print job is routed via port forwarding from the original device to the remote printer s . Finally as indicated at block an optional operation can be implemented wherein the print job is released when a PIN or passcode is provided. The process then terminates at shown at block .

As can be appreciated by one skilled in the art embodiments can be implemented in the context of a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly embodiments may take the form of an entire hardware embodiment an entire software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all generally referred to herein as a circuit or module. Furthermore embodiments may in some cases take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks USB Flash Drives DVDs CD ROMs optical storage devices magnetic storage devices server storage databases etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language e.g. Java C etc. . The computer program code however for carrying out operations of particular embodiments may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or in a visually oriented programming environment such as for example Visual Basic.

The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to a users computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN wireless data network e.g. WiFi Wimax 802.xx and cellular network or the connection may be made to an external computer via most third party supported networks for example through the Internet utilizing an Internet Service Provider .

The embodiments are described at least in part herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods systems and computer program products and data structures according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the illustrations and combinations of blocks can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

As illustrated in some embodiments may be implemented in the context of a data processing system that includes for example a central processor a main memory an input output controller a keyboard an input device e.g. a pointing device such as a mouse track ball stylus etc. a display device a mass storage e.g. a hard disk and a USB Universal Serial Bus peripheral connection. As illustrated the various components of data processing system can communicate electronically through a system bus or similar architecture. The system bus may be for example a subsystem that transfers data between for example computer components within data processing system or to and from other data processing devices components computers etc.

The following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of suitable computing environments in which the system and method may be implemented. Although not required the disclosed embodiments will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a single computer. In most instances a module constitutes a software application. An example of a module is the branch printing module shown in which may include instructions for performing the various branch printing operations and features such as for example the instructions shown and described herein with respect to blocks of method shown in the embodiment of and or for example the various blocks and components etc. of system of .

Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines subroutines software applications programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types and instructions. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosed method and system may be practiced with other computer system configurations such as for example hand held devices multi processor systems data networks microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs minicomputers mainframe computers servers and the like.

Note that the term module as utilized herein may refer to a collection of routines and data structures that perform a particular task or implements a particular abstract data type. Modules may be composed of two parts an interface which lists the constants data types variable and routines that can be accessed by other modules or routines and an implementation which is typically private accessible only to that module and which includes source code that actually implements the routines in the module. The term module may also simply refer to an application such as a computer program designed to assist in the performance of a specific task such as word processing accounting inventory management etc.

The interface which is preferably a graphical user interface GUI also serves to display results whereupon the user may supply additional inputs or terminate the session. In some embodiments interface may serve as for example interface discussed earlier herein. In an embodiment operating system and interface can be implemented in the context of a Windows system. It can be appreciated of course that other types of systems are possible. For example rather than a traditional Windows system other operation systems such as for example Linux may also be employed with respect to operating system and interface . The software application can include a module that can for example function or actually be the branch printing module. Software application on the other hand can include instructions such as the various operations described herein with respect to the various components and modules described herein such as for example method depicted in and or various components such as the mobile API and the document conversion engine shown in .

Based on the foregoing it can be appreciated that a number of advantages can accrue from implementation of the disclosed embodiments. For example the disclosed embodiments can be implemented in the context of existing mobile print solutions. Additionally the ability to train a print server to determine the optical spooling path based on comparing throughput on each available port and protocol as shown in . Advantages of this approach are that it requires that no point to point integration be implemented on printers and supports different types of hardware and equipment which support IPP over SSL and SNMPv3. This approach also offers managed print services as well as mobile printing to the satellite or branch locations. The disclosed approach is applicable to all branch locations with minimal central IT management.

It can also be appreciated based on the foregoing that a number of embodiments preferred and alternative are disclosed herein. For example in one embodiment a method for branch printing can be implemented. Such a method can include the steps or logical operations of configuring a secure print path to at least one remote printer located remote from a device from which a print job originates the secure print path configured to include secure device communication and secure job spooling and routing the print job via port forwarding from the device to the at least one remote printer for rendering of the print job at the at least one remote printer.

In some embodiments the secure print path can employ an SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol . In another embodiment the secure print path can employ an IPP Internet Printing Protocol . In yet another embodiment the secure print path can employ an IPP Internet Printing Protocol over an SSL Secure Socket Layer .

In another embodiment configuring the secure print path can further involve employing an SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol and an IPP Internet Printing Protocol over an SSL Secure Socket Layer to train a print server to determine an optimal pooling path for the secure print path. In yet another embodiment a step or logical operation can be provided for employing a DDNS Distributed Domain Naming Service for determining a dynamic IP of the at least one remote printer if the remote location is not associated with a static IP address. In yet another embodiment a step or logical operation can be provided for employing a DDNS Distributed Domain Naming Service for determining a dynamic IP of the at least one remote printer if the remote location is not associated with a static IP address. In yet another embodiment a step or logical operation can be provided for providing a secure print passcode that when activated allows for release of the print job once the print job arrives at the at least one remote printer via the secure print path.

In another embodiment a system for branch printing can be provided. Such a system can include one or more processor and a memory comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations including for example configuring a secure print path to at least one remote printer located remote from a device from which a print job originates the secure print path configured to include secure device communication and secure job spooling and routing the print job via port forwarding from the device to the at least one remote printer for rendering of the print job at the at least one remote printer.

In yet another embodiment a system for branch printing can be implemented. Such a system can include for example at least one remote printer that communicates electronically with a network wherein a secure print path is configured to the at least one remote printer located remote from a device from which a print job originates the secure print path configured to include secure device communication and secure job spooling and wherein the print job is routed via port forwarding and through the network from the device to the at least one remote printer for rendering of the print job at the at least one remote printer.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. It can also be appreciated that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

