---

title: Reduction of packet retransmissions in dual connectivity systems
abstract: Technology for reducing packet transmissions is disclosed. A master evolved node B (MeNB) configured for dual connectivity can receive one or more acknowledgements (ACKs) from a user equipment (UE) indicating packets that were successfully received at the UE from a secondary evolved node B (SeNB). The MeNB can receive, from the SeNB, packet delivery information for the SeNB. The MeNB can receive an indication from the SeNB of an air-interface connection loss between the SeNB and the UE. The MeNB can identify remaining packets that were not sent from the SeNB to the UE based, in part, on the ACKs received from the UE and the packet delivery information received from the SeNB, wherein the remaining packets are not sent to the UE due to the connection loss between the SeNB and the UE. The MeNB can send the remaining packets from the MeNB to the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462629&OS=09462629&RS=09462629
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09462629
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 883 127 filed Sep. 26 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical uplink control channel PUCCH can be used to acknowledge that data was received. Downlink and uplink channels or transmissions can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In 3GPP LTE Release 12 user equipments UEs may connect to more than one cell site simultaneously. For example the UE may connect to a master evolved node B MeNB and at least one secondary evolved node B SeNB simultaneously. When the UE connects to two cells the UE may receive data bearers from both cells at substantially the same time. The multiple bearers may be sent to the UE based on a location of an S1 U termination and location of the bearer split. In one example the S1 U may be terminated at the MeNB and the bearer split may be performed at a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer of the MeNB.

The dual connectivity architectures described in are further discussed in 3GPP Technical Review TR 36.842 Version 12.0.0.

In one example the UE may communicate with both the SeNB and the MeNB in a dual connectivity architecture. A packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive packets from higher layers such as the IP layer or the application layer. The packets may be PDCP RLC packets. In addition the packets may include data or control information. The PDCP layer in the MeNB may select a first portion of the packets received from the higher layers to be communicated to lower layers e.g. RLC and MAC layers in the MeNB. Thereafter these packets may be communicated to the UE. In addition the PDCP layer in the MeNB may select a second portion of the packets received from the higher layers to be communicated to the RLC layer in the SeNB via an X2 interface. The RLC layer may segment the packets and send the segmented packets to the UE. The PDCP layer may select the first portion and the second portion according to a bearer split ratio. As an example the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive 10 PDCP packets from the higher layers wherein each PDCP packet is 1000 bytes. Out of the 10 PDCP packets 4 PDCP packets may be communicated to the lower levels in the MeNB and 6 PDCP packets may be communicated to the RLC layer in the SeNB according to the bearer split ratio. The SeNB may segment the 6 PDCP packets into smaller RLC packets. For example the SeNB may segment the 6 PDCP packets into 24 RLC packets i.e. each RLC packet is 250 bytes . The SeNB may send the RLC packets to the UE.

Although it may be undesirable to support dual connectivity with moderate or high mobility dual connectivity may be supported with low mobility. When the UE is in low mobility a connection between the UE and the SeNB may deteriorate and eventually be lost. When the connection is lost between the SeNB and the UE the SeNB can no longer send packets to the UE. The packets may include PDCP RLC packets. When the connection is lost and no enhancements are being implemented the SeNB may send packet delivery information e.g. information about the delivered packets and the undelivered packets to the MeNB so that the MeNB can send resend the packets that did not reach the UE.

The UE may have received some or all of the packets from the SeNB before the connection was lost between the UE and the SeNB. However the UE may be unable to successfully send acknowledgements ACKs to the SeNB for the packets received due to the connection loss between the UE and the SeNB. In other words the UE may attempt to send the ACKs to the SeNB but the ACKs may not be successfully received at the SeNB due to the deteriorated uplink. As an example the UE may receive 10 packets from the SeNB but could only send ACKs for 4 of the packets. Therefore the SeNB may be unaware that the later 6 packets were successfully received at the UE.

When the connection is lost between the UE and the SeNB the MeNB may account for the packets that were successfully received at the UE via the SeNB. The MeNB may determine which packets were not received at the UE before the connection loss and only send these packets to the UE. For example the SeNB may successfully send 4 packets out of a set of 10 packets to the UE and then the connection is lost between the SeNB and the UE. Rather than the MeNB sending all 10 packets to the UE as performed in legacy systems the MeNB may send only the remaining 6 packets in the set of 10 packets. In other words the MeNB may determine which packets had been received as well as not received at the UE when the connection was lost. The MeNB may recover pending packets at the SeNB i.e. packets that are unable to be sent due to the connection loss rather than unnecessarily sending all of the packets to the UE. As a result data latency can be reduced overall resource utilization data throughput can be increased and power consumption at the UE can be reduced. In addition the technology described can be applicable to both downlink and uplink scenarios.

In another example the SeNB may successfully send 3 packets out of a set of 10 packets to the UE and then the connection is lost between the SeNB and the UE. The UE may attempt to send ACKs for the 3 packets that were successfully received at the UE before the connection is lost. Whether the SeNB successfully receives the ACKs or does not receive the ACKs for the 3 packets the MeNB may send the remaining 7 packets in the set of 10 packets to the UE. However in legacy systems if the SeNB does not receive the ACKs for the 3 packets the MeNB may send all 10 packets to the UE. In other words the UE may receive packets that were already previously received at the UE in legacy systems.

In one example the air interface connection between the SeNB and the UE may be lost. The connection may be lost due to the low mobility of the UE . Alternatively the connection may be lost due to channel variation. When the connection is lost the SeNB may be unable to send packets to the UE . In addition the UE may be unable to send ACKs NACKs for packets that were successfully received at the UE before the connection was lost.

The UE may maintain packet reception information even after the connection is lost between the UE and the SeNB . In legacy systems the UE may flush packet reception information i.e. not store which packets were or were not received at the UE from the SeNB when the connection is lost between the UE and the SeNB . The UE may send ACKs NACKs to the MeNB for the packets that were received at the UE from the SeNB according to the packet reception information when the connection is lost. Alternatively the UE may periodically send the ACKs NACKs to the MeNB . In other words the MeNB may periodically receive information about which packets are received or not received at the UE from the SeNB .

In one configuration the MeNB may allocate resources for the UE to send the ACKs NACKs to the MeNB . For example the MeNB may detect the connection loss between the UE and the SeNB and then allocate resources for the UE to send the ACKs NACKs to the MeNB . Alternatively the MeNB may grant a request for resources received from the UE via a random access channel RACH to enable the UE to periodically send the ACKs NACKs to the MeNB . In another example the MeNB may grant a request for resources received with uplink data from the UE to enable the UE to periodically send the ACKs NACKs to the MeNB . Therefore the MeNB may know which packets e.g. RLC packets were successfully received at the UE from the SeNB and which packets were not successfully received at the UE from the SeNB .

The SeNB may send packet delivery information as well as an indication of the connection loss between the SeNB and the UE to the MeNB via an X2 interface. The packet delivery information may include PDCP RLC packet delivery status information for the SeNB as well as RLC segmentation information. The PDCP RLC packet delivery status information may describe packets that were successfully received at the UE from the SeNB before the connection loss as well as packets that were not successfully received at the UE from the SeNB and or unable to be sent from the SeNB after the connection loss. The SeNB may determine which packets were successfully received based on ACKs NACKs received from the UE . In one example the SeNB may receive the ACK NACKs from the UE via the MeNB after the connection is lost between the UE and the SeNB . In addition the RLC segmentation information may describe how the PDCP packets are segmented into RLC packets at the SeNB .

The MeNB may use the ACKs NACKs received from the UE the PDCP RLC packet delivery status information received from the SeNB and the RLC segmentation information received from the SeNB in order to determine which packets to send to the UE . The MeNB may select the packets that were not already received at the UE based on the ACKs NACKs PDCP RLC packet delivery status information and the RLC segmentation information. The MeNB may send these packets to the UE . In other words since the packet transmissions go through the MeNB the MeNB may already have a copy of the packets that are to be transmitted to the UE . Therefore the UE may not unnecessarily receive packets from the MeNB that were already received from the SeNB . In one configuration the MeNB may send the packets to the UE in a downlink scenario as well as an uplink scenario.

As a non limiting example the SeNB may include a PDCP packet to be sent to the UE . The PDCP packet may be 1000 bytes. In addition the PDCP packet may be segmented into smaller RLC packets. For example the PDCP packet may be segmented into 5 RLC packets wherein each RLC packet is 200 bytes. Thus the SeNB may be sending 5 RLC packets to the UE . The SeNB may send 600 bytes i.e. the first 3 RLC packets to the UE before a connection loss between the UE and the SeNB . Therefore the SeNB may be unable to send the remaining 400 bytes i.e. the last 2 packets to the UE . The UE may send ACKs to the MeNB indicating that the UE has successfully received the 600 bytes from the SeNB . In addition the UE may send NACKs to the MeNB indicating that the remaining 400 bytes were not successfully received from the SeNB . In addition the MeNB may receive the PDCP RLC packet delivery status information from the SeNB indicating that the SeNB sent 600 bytes to the UE but could not send the remaining 400 bytes to the UE . In addition the MeNB may receive the RLC segmentation information indicating that the PDCP packet was segmented into five smaller RLC packets. Based on the ACKs NACKs the PDCP RLC packet delivery status information and the RLC segmentation information the MeNB may determine that the 600 bytes were successfully received at the UE and the 400 bytes were not received at the UE . Therefore the MeNB may send the 400 bytes to the UE without resending the 600 bytes to the UE .

In one configuration the SeNB may be unable to send packets to the UE due to a connection loss between the SeNB and the UE . Therefore the SeNB may send the packets to the MeNB and the MeNB may forward the packets to the UE . As a non limiting example the SeNB may send 200 bytes out of 1000 bytes to the UE before the connection is lost. The SeNB may send the remaining 800 bytes to the MeNB wherein the MeNB may forward the remaining 800 bytes to the UE . Therefore the UE may not receive packets from the MeNB that were already successfully received at the UE from the SeNB .

The UE may maintain packet reception information even after the connection is lost between the UE and the MeNB . The UE may send ACKs NACKs to the SeNB for the packets that were received at the UE from the MeNB according to the packet reception information. The UE may send the ACKs NACKs to the SeNB upon the connection between the UE and the MeNB being lost. Alternatively the UE may periodically send the ACKs NACKs to the SeNB . In other words the SeNB may periodically receive information about which packets are received at the UE from the MeNB .

In one configuration the SeNB may allocate resources for the UE to send the ACKs NACKs to the SeNB . For example the SeNB may detect the connection loss between the UE and the MeNB and then allocate resources for the UE to send the ACKs NACKs to the SeNB . Alternatively the SeNB may grant a request for resources received from the UE via a random access channel RACH to enable the UE to periodically send the ACKs NACKs to the SeNB . In another example the SeNB may grant a request for resources received with uplink data from the UE to enable the UE to periodically send the ACKs NACKs to the SeNB . Therefore the SeNB may know which packets e.g. RLC packets were successfully received at the UE from the MeNB and which packets were not successfully received at the UE from the MeNB .

The MeNB may send packet delivery information as well as an indication of the connection loss between the MeNB and the UE to the SeNB via an X2 interface. The packet delivery information may include PDCP RLC packet delivery status information for the MeNB as well as RLC segmentation information. The PDCP RLC packet delivery status information may describe packets that were successfully received at the UE from the MeNB before the connection loss as well as packets that were not successfully received at the UE from the MeNB and or unable to be sent from the MeNB after the connection loss. The MeNB may determine which packets were successfully received based on ACKs NACKs received from the UE . In one example the MeNB may receive the ACK NACKs from the UE via the SeNB when the connection is lost between the UE and the MeNB . In addition the RLC segmentation information may describe how the PDCP packets are segmented into RLC packets at the MeNB .

The SeNB may select the packets that were not already received at the UE based on the ACKs NACKs PDCP RLC packet delivery status information and the RLC segmentation information. In other words the SeNB may identify the packets that were lost i.e. unable to be sent to the UE and then send the packets to the UE . In one example the packets e.g. PDCP PDUs or RLC SDUs may be forwarded from the MeNB to the SeNB over the X2 interface when the MeNB connection is lost and then the SeNB may send the packets to the UE . Therefore the UE may not unnecessarily receive packets from the SeNB that were already received from the MeNB . In one configuration the SeNB may send the packets to the UE in a downlink scenario as well as an uplink scenario.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a master evolved node B MeNB configured for dual connectivity that is operable to reduce packet retransmissions as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to receive one or more acknowledgements ACKs from a user equipment UE indicating packets that were successfully received at the UE from a secondary evolved node B SeNB as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive from the SeNB packet delivery information for the SeNB as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive an indication from the SeNB of an air interface connection loss between the SeNB and the UE as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to identify remaining packets that were not sent from the SeNB to the UE based in part on the ACKs received from the UE and the packet delivery information received from the SeNB wherein the remaining packets are not sent to the UE due to the connection loss between the SeNB and the UE as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to send the remaining packets from the MeNB to the UE as in block .

In one example the packet delivery information includes packet data convergence protocol PDCP radio link control RLC packet delivery status information for the SeNB and RLC segmentation information the PDCP RLC packet delivery status information and the RLC segmentation information being received at the MeNB from the SeNB via an X2 interface. In one configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to detect the connection loss between the UE and the SeNB and allocate resources for the UE to send the ACKs to the MeNB.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to grant a request for resources received from the UE via a random access channel RACH to enable the UE to periodically send the ACKs to the MeNB. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to grant a request for resources received with uplink data from the UE to enable the UE to periodically send the ACKs to the MeNB.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive the ACKs from the UE over an air interface signaling channel. In one configuration the RLC segmentation information describes a segmentation of PDCP packets into RLC packets at the SeNB. In another configuration the packets include RLC packets.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to support dual connectivity as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to receive one or more packets from a secondary evolved node B SeNB as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to send one or more acknowledgements ACKs to a master evolved node B MeNB indicating the packets that were successfully received from the SeNB as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive remaining packets from the MeNB when an air interface connection loss occurs between the UE and the SeNB wherein the MeNB sends the remaining packets to the UE based in part on the ACKs received from the UE and packet delivery information received at the MeNB from the SeNB as in block .

In one example the packet delivery information includes packet data convergence protocol PDCP packet delivery status information for the SeNB and radio link control RLC segmentation information. In another example the UE supports dual connectivity with the SeNB and the MeNB.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to send one or more negative acknowledgements NACKs to the MeNB indicating packets that were not successfully received from the SeNB. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to store an RLC packet reception event after the air interface connection loss occurs between the UE and the SeNB. In one configuration the air interface connection loss between the UE and the SeNB occurs due to mobility of the UE or channel variation.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to send a request for resources to the MeNB the resources enabling the UE to send the ACKs to the MeNB. In another example the request for resources is sent to the MeNB via a random access channel RACH or along with uplink data. In yet another example the UE includes an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor an internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Another example provides a method for reducing packet retransmissions in a dual connectivity system as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can include the operation of receiving one or more acknowledgements ACKs from a user equipment UE indicating packets that were successfully received at the UE from a secondary evolved node B SeNB as in block . The method can include the operation of receiving one or more negative acknowledgements NACKs from the UE indicating packets that were not successfully received at the UE from the SeNB as in block . The method can include the operation of receiving packet data convergence protocol PDCP radio link control RLC packet delivery status information for the SeNB and RLC segmentation information for the SeNB as in block . The method can include the operation of receiving an indication from the SeNB of an air interface connection loss between the SeNB and the UE as in block . The method can include the operation of identifying remaining packets that were not sent from the SeNB to the UE based in part on the ACKs NACKs received from the UE the PDCP RLC packet delivery status information and the RLC segmentation information the remaining packets not being sent from the SeNB to the UE due to the air interface connection loss between the SeNB and the UE as in block . The method can include the operation of sending the remaining packets from the MeNB to the UE as in block .

In one example the method can include receiving the PDCP RLC packet delivery status information and the RLC segmentation information from the SeNB via an X2 interface. In addition the method can include receiving a request for resources from the UE via a random access channel RACH to enable the UE to send the ACKs to the MeNB or receiving a request for resources along with uplink data from the UE the resources enabling the UE to send the ACKs to the MeNB.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

