---

title: Method and system for creating a global neighbor list
abstract: A method and system for creating a global neighbor list is disclosed. The method may be implemented at a serving base station and includes instructing each Mobile Station (MS) served by the serving BS to report a signal strength between the each MS and one or more neighbor BSs for one or more predefined time periods; identifying, using a hardware processor, at least one neighbor BS of the one or more neighbor BSs having a signal strength with respect to one or more MSs greater than a threshold signal strength; determining, using the hardware processor, a number of times the at least one neighbor BS is reported in the one or more predefined time periods; and creating, using the hardware processor, the global neighbor list based on the number of times the at least one neighbor BS is reported exceeding a predefined count threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215630&OS=09215630&RS=09215630
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09215630
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140611
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application No. 2158 CHE 2014 filed Apr. 29 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to neighbor list management in a cellular telecommunication network and more particularly to a method and system of maintaining relevant neighbor base stations in the neighbor list.

Typically in a cellular telecommunication network a Base Station BS maintains a Global Neighbor List GNL which includes a list of neighbor BSs in the vicinity of the particular BS. The GNL may be transmitted to each Mobile Station MS currently being served by the BS. On receiving the GNL each MS may search for the neighbor BSs listed in the GNL and report a signal strength measurement between itself and the neighbor BSs. Based on these reports the serving BS may determine a neighbor BS to which a MS may be potentially handed over.

The GNL may usually be manually defined by a network administrator and provided to the BS. The network administrator may identify BSs surrounding a particular BS from a network map and provide this list to the BS. This list of neighbor BSs may typically involve a large number of neighbors that may or may not be relevant to all the MSs within a serving area or cell. In other words not all the neighbor BSs may be of equal importance to a particular MS. Also since the GNL is manually defined it may only be updated on a weekly or monthly basis. Thus any changes in the network topography such as addition or removal of BSs may not be immediately reflected in the GNL. In such cases if a BS that has been removed or is currently inactive is included in the GNL then each MS may spend undue resources searching for the BS in order to measure signal strength between itself and the BS. This may cause battery drain at the MS. Further a similar problem may occur when the GNL includes a large number of neighbor BSs and the MS is instructed to measure signal strength between itself and each of these neighbor BSs. Processing the large number of neighbors by the MSs may be processor intensive leading to high battery consumption.

In one embodiment a method of creating a global neighbor list in a cellular telecommunication network is disclosed. The method may be implemented at a serving Base Station BS . The method comprises instructing each Mobile Station MS served by the serving BS to report a signal strength between the each MS and one or more neighbor BSs for one or more predefined time periods identifying using a hardware processor at least one neighbor BS of the one or more neighbor BSs having a signal strength with respect to one or more MSs greater than a threshold signal strength determining using the hardware processor a number of times the at least one neighbor BS is reported in the one or more predefined time periods and creating using the hardware processor the global neighbor list based on the number of times the at least one neighbor BS is reported exceeding a predefined count threshold.

In another embodiment an apparatus for creating a global neighbor list is disclosed. The apparatus may be implemented at a serving Base Station BS and may comprise a processor and a memory disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions to instruct each Mobile Station MS served by the serving BS to report a signal strength between the each MS and one or more neighbor BSs for one or more predefined time periods identify at least one neighbor BS of the one or more neighbor BSs having a signal strength with respect to one or more MSs greater than a threshold signal strength determine a number of times the at least one neighbor BS is reported in the one or more predefined time periods and create the global neighbor list based on the number of times the at least one neighbor BS is reported exceeding a predefined count threshold.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor causes the processor to create a global neighbor list is disclosed.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

The MS may be instructed to discover and report on neighbor BSs for a predefined period of time. The period of time may be defined by the network administrator and may be such that sufficient readings are collected so as to average out the readings. In some embodiments the MSs may be instructed to measure and report signal strength in multiple time slots or windows. Thus an MS may be instructed to report signal strength multiple times in a single time slot and perform this same operation across multiple time slots.

Once the various signal strength values between various MSs and various BSs are collected the various signal strength values may be compared against a predefined threshold signal strength value. The threshold signal strength value may be predefined by the network administrator. Thereafter one or more neighbor BSs that exceed the threshold signal strength value may be identified at step . The predefined threshold value may be set such that any neighbors reported that have low signal strength with respect to a MS may be eliminated. Further the threshold signal strength value may ensure that neighbors whose signal strength is so weak that a handover is unlikely to happen to these neighbors are eliminated from consideration.

On identifying the one or more neighbor BSs exceeding the threshold signal strength the number of times each neighbor BS is reported by the MSs may be determined at step . Thus a cumulative count of the neighbors as reported by the MSs in the serving area of the serving BS may be determined. Thereafter the number of times a BS is reported may be compared against a predefined count threshold. In some embodiments the count threshold may be determined based on the number of the predefined time periods a Minimum Percentage Neighbor Retention value and the total number of connected MSs. The minimum percentage neighbor retention value itself may be predefined and may indicate a percentage value of the identified neighbor BSs to be retained. If the number of times the BS is reported by the MSs is greater than or equal to the predefined count threshold then a global neighbor list may be created and the BS included in the global neighbor list at step .

The created global neighbor list may then be transmitted to a Management Server to validate the global neighbor list. The management server may verify the created global neighbor list against a default neighbor list maintained by the management server. In some embodiments if the created global list is a subset of the default neighbor list then the created global list may be validated. If the Management server replies with its version of the default Neighbor List created by the network administrator then the difference between the created neighbor list by the BS and the version of the neighbor list provided by the management server may be reported back to the management server.

Processor may instruct each MS to discover and report on neighbor BSs for a predefined period of time. The period of time may be defined by the network administrator and may be such that sufficient readings are collected so as to average out the readings. In some embodiments the MSs may be instructed to measure and report signal strength in multiple time slots or windows. Thus an MS may be instructed to report signal strength multiple times in a single time slot and perform this same operation across multiple time slots.

Once the various signal strength values between various MSs and various BSs are collected processor may compare the various signal strength values against a predefined threshold signal strength value. The threshold signal strength value may be predefined by the network administrator. Thereafter processor may identify one or more neighbor BSs that exceed the threshold signal strength value. The predefined threshold value may be set such that any neighbors reported that have low signal strength with respect to a MS may be eliminated. Further the threshold signal strength value may ensure that neighbors whose signal strength is so weak that a handover is unlikely to happen to these neighbors are eliminated from consideration.

On identifying the one or more neighbor BSs exceeding the threshold signal strength processor may determine the number of times each neighbor BS is reported by the MSs. Thus a cumulative count of the neighbors as reported by the MSs in the serving area of the serving BS may be determined. Thereafter the number of times a BS is reported may be compared against a predefined count threshold by processor . In some embodiments the count threshold may be determined based on the number of the predefined time periods a Minimum Percentage Neighbor Retention value and the total number of connected MSs. If the number of times the BS is reported by the MSs is greater than or equal to the predefined count threshold then a global neighbor list may be created and the BS included in the global neighbor list.

The created global neighbor list may then be transmitted to a Management Server through a transmitter to validate the global neighbor list. The management server may verify the created global neighbor list against a default neighbor list maintained by the management server. In some embodiments if the created global list is a subset of the default neighbor list then the created global list may be validated. If the Management server replies with its version of the default Neighbor List created by the network administrator then the difference between the created neighbor list by the BS and the version of the neighbor list provided by the management server may be reported back to the management server.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method and system for creating a global neighbor list. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

