---

title: Contact lenses
abstract: Apparatus, systems and methods for facilitating iris-scanning contact lenses and/or biometric identification employing iris scanning contact lenses are provided. In one implementation, the contact lens can include: a transparent substrate formed to cover at least a portion of an iris of an eye; and a circuit. The circuit can include: one or more light sensors disposed on or within the transparent substrate and that detects light filtered through the iris and incident on the one or more light sensors; readout circuitry, operably coupled to the one or more light sensors, that outputs information indicative of the light filtered through the iris and incident on the one or more light sensors; and a power component that supplies power to the readout circuitry. In various implementations, the contact lens can be employed in systems and/or methods associated with authentication and identification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047512&OS=09047512&RS=09047512
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09047512
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140613
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 472 411 filed May 15 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to iris scanning contact lenses and biometric identification employing iris scanning contact lenses.

As the interface between humans and technology has grown both in adoption rates and importance in our lives security has become increasingly important. Verification of users can facilitate security. Biometrics is a class of user verification with the focus of identification of humans using characteristics unique to a particular human. Unfortunately conventional biometric systems and techniques are relatively inconvenient to use. The inconvenience is exacerbated as the number of secure devices continues to grow. As such new approaches for user verification are desired.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more implementations in order to provide a basic understanding of such implementations. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated implementations and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all implementations nor delineate the scope of any or all implementations. Its purpose is to present some concepts of one or more implementations in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one or more implementations the disclosed subject matter relates to a contact lens that facilitates iris scanning. The contact lens can include a transparent substrate formed to cover at least a portion of an iris of an eye and a circuit. The circuit can include one or more light sensors disposed on or within the transparent substrate and that detects light filtered through the iris and incident on the one or more light sensors readout circuitry operably coupled to the one or more light sensors that outputs information indicative of the light filtered through the iris and incident on the one or more light sensors and a power component operably coupled to the readout circuitry that supplies power to the readout circuitry.

In one or more implementations the disclosed subject matter relates to a method facilitating biometric iris recognition. The method can include detecting at one or more light sensors disposed on or within a transparent lens covering at least a portion of an eye light reflected from light incident on an iris of the eye wherein the light reflected includes image data indicative of a pattern associated with the iris and outputting an iris fingerprint based in part on the image data.

In one or more implementations the disclosed subject matter relates to a method of biometric identification. The method can include employing logic circuitry to execute computer executable components stored within a memory to perform comparing a first iris fingerprint with a second iris fingerprint wherein at least one of the first iris fingerprint or the second iris fingerprint is generated based at least on an iris pattern retrieved via readout circuitry communicatively one or more light sensors disposed on or within a contact lens and configured to detect light filtered by an iris on which the contact lens is substantially positioned and determining whether a biometric match exists between the first iris fingerprint and the second iris fingerprint based at least on the comparing.

In one or more implementations the disclosed subject matter relates to a system facilitating biometric identification. The system can include a memory that stores computer executable components and logic circuitry that executes the following computer executable components stored in the memory. The computer executable components can include a comparison component that compares a first iris fingerprint with a second iris fingerprint wherein the first iris fingerprint is based at least on an iris pattern retrieved from circuitry coupled to one or more light sensors disposed on or within a contact lens wherein the one or more light sensors detects light filtered by an iris on which the contact lens is substantially positioned and a biometric match component that determines whether a biometric match exists based at least on a comparison by the comparison component.

Toward the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more implementations include the features hereinafter fully described and particularly poinTed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth herein detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more implementations. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various implementations can be employed and the described implementations are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various implementations are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more implementations. It is be evident however that such implementations can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more implementations.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more implementations described in this disclosure users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more implementations described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

Apparatus systems and or methods disclosed herein relate to contact lenses that facilitate iris scanning and or to biometric iris identification. In particular a contact lens can include a transparent substrate formed to cover at least a portion of an iris of an eye and a circuit. The circuit can include one or more light sensors disposed on the transparent substrate that detects light filtered through the iris and incident on the one or more light sensors a power component operably coupled to readout circuitry that supplies power to the readout circuitry and readout circuitry operably coupled to the one or more light sensors that outputs information indicative of the light filtered through the iris and incident on the one or more light sensors. In some implementations a method of biometric iris identification can include detecting at one or more light sensors disposed on a transparent lens covering at least a portion of an eye light reflected from light incident on an iris of the eye wherein the light reflected includes image data indicative of a pattern associated with the iris and outputting an iris fingerprint based in part on the image data.

One or more implementations of the apparatus systems and or methods described herein can advantageously facilitate user verification via contact lens biometric iris identification.

In various implementations the light source can be the sun ambient light e.g. light inside of a building and or a specific interrogation light spectra. For example the interrogation light spectra can be one or more wavelengths to which the light sensors of the contact lens are responsive.

In various implementations light is received at the iris and is reflected. The one or more light sensors detect the light reflected from and thus filtered through the iris. The light filtered through the iris can be information indicative of an iris fingerprint for the wearer of the contact lens . In various implementations the iris fingerprint can be read processed and or stored by the iris fingerprint reader . The iris fingerprint can also be employed to determine whether access to secure devices can be provided and or whether secure information can be downloaded to third parties for example.

Accordingly in an exemplary implementation the detection surface of the light sensors face towards the iris to receive the light reflected from the iris.

In some implementations the contact lens can also include a light source on the substrate of the contact lens. The light source could be disposed to project light into the iris of the wearer of the contact lens. The projected light can then be reflected and filtered through the iris and detected by the light sensors. As such in various implementations a light source other than ambient light can be employed to project light into the iris of the wearer of the contact lens.

Various implementations of the contact lens will be described with reference to B C and . B and C are illustrations of block diagrams of exemplary non limiting contact lenses that facilitate iris scanning in accordance with implementations described herein. is an illustration of a block diagram of an exemplary non limiting circuit that facilitates iris scanning in accordance with implementations described herein.

Turning first to the contact lens can include a substrate formed to cover at least a portion of an iris of an eye. In some implementations the substrate can be transparent e.g. a transparent polymer. The contact lens can include a circuit disposed on or within the substrate.

The circuit can include at least one light sensor a power component and readout circuitry . In various implementations light sensor power component and or readout circuitry can be operably electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the circuit. The circuit can be configured to perform iris scanning generation of an iris fingerprint and or readout of information e.g. an iris fingerprint generated based at least on the iris scanning.

In some implementations the circuit can include a number of chips communicatively and or electrically coupled to one another and having one or more different functions. For example a first chip e.g. the chip associated with power component can be associated with power collection e.g. harvesting power from incident light a second chip e.g. the chip associated with readout circuitry can be associated with communication and or a third chip e.g. the chip associated with light sensor can be associated with detection of light filtered by the iris.

In some implementations the light sensor can have a detection surface facing the iris of the eye so as to detect light filtered through the iris of the wearer of the contact lens and incident on the light sensor .

In some implementations the light sensor can be a light sensor including complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS components or technology and or PN junction components or technology. In some implementations the light sensor can be a passive structure that generates power upon receiving light e.g. ambient light or an interrogation wavelength . In some implementations the light sensor can include organic thin film components and or technology carbon nanotube devices and or technology thin cell batteries and or high density capacitors.

In some implementations the light sensor can be a transparent and or translucent or semi transparent translucent light sensor. In various implementations the light sensor can be a light sensor adapted to detect specific light wavelengths. In some implementations the light sensor can be a monochromatic light sensor.

In some implementations the light sensor can be less than approximately 500 microns wide. In some implementations the light sensor can be any width capable of being integrated into a contact lens form factor.

In some implementations the light sensor can have a detection surface facing outward away from the iris as to perform one or more features including but not limited to power collection.

The power component can supply power to the readout circuitry . In various implementations the power component can include one or more photovoltaic cells and or one or more radio frequency RF antennas. In other implementations the power component can contain any of a number of different types of components for collection and or generation of power.

While the implementation shown in illustrates a wire connecting the power component and the readout circuitry in some implementations the power component can supply power to the readout circuitry wirelessly. As such the illustrated wire need not be included in the circuitry connecting the power component to the readout circuitry .

In various implementations the power component can wirelessly receive power and or information for supplying power to the readout circuitry . For example the power component can receive and or process a signal and or perform power collection according to any number of approaches including but not limited to a near field communication far field communication evanescent frequency tunneling the use of transformers and or optical transmission.

The readout circuitry can be communicatively and or electrically coupled to the power component and the light sensor . In some implementations the readout circuitry can determine the information sensed at the light sensor and or output such information. For example in various implementations the readout circuitry can output information indicative of the light filtered through the iris and incident on the light sensor .

In various implementations the information indicative of the light filtered through the iris can include a pattern associated with the iris. For example with reference to light can enter the iris and be reflected from the iris as a unique pattern associated with the iris. The pattern e.g. signature and or fingerprint formed by the filtering can be detected by the light sensor . The readout circuitry can output an iris fingerprint which can be the pattern or generated from the pattern.

The readout circuitry can be low power in some implementations. In some implementations the readout circuitry can periodically determine the filtered light fingerprint and or information collected at the light sensor .

In some implementations the readout circuitry can output the information periodically. For example the readout circuitry can output the information in response to a polling signal received at the readout circuitry.

In some implementations the readout circuitry can receive a polling signal from a reader that is in proximity to the contact lens such as iris fingerprint reader described with reference to . For example the reader can determine that the contact lens is within a particular proximity of the reader and generate a radio frequency RF polling signal. In response to receipt of the polling signal the readout circuitry can output the information obtained from the light sensor and or information generated by the readout circuitry .

In some implementations the readout circuitry can broadcast the information obtained from the light sensor and or information generated by the readout circuitry intermittently. For example in some implementations the contact lens can awake at periodic intervals of time e.g. every hour or once a day or at a specific time and the readout circuitry can automatically output the information obtained from the light sensor and or information generated by the readout circuitry .

In some implementations the readout circuitry can output the information obtained from the light sensor and or information generated by the readout circuitry continually.

In some implementations the readout circuitry can output the information obtained from the light sensor and or information generated by the readout circuitry in response to a trigger and or condition. For example in various implementations the readout circuitry can output the information in response to detection that the reader is within a particular RF proximity and or if a determination is made that a device utilizing the information stored at the readout circuitry is within proximity e.g. automobile configured to employ the information for locking or unlocking a door a computer configured to employ the information for providing password access to the computer or the like and or if a determination is made that memory at the readout circuitry is full or near full or the like.

In various implementations the readout circuitry can output the information from the contact lens wirelessly. In various implementations the information can be formatted and or output according to a near field communication standard far field communication standard optical techniques or the like. In some implementations the near field communication can be provided via a cellular telephone that can emit a signal to trigger scanning of the contact lens and or that can emit a polling signal to poll the contact lens and thereby cause the readout circuitry to output the information.

The information output from the readout circuitry can be employed for biometric identification authentication as a password or the like. For example the information can be employed to unlock one or more secure devices e.g. automobiles buildings computers telephones safe deposit boxes . In some implementations the information can be employed to facilitate uploading or downloading information from a cloud based system. For example if a biometric identification system such as that described below with reference to determines that the information is indicative of a person having access to the cloud based system the information can be employed to provide access to the cloud based system. Additional information stored in the memory of the readout circuitry can be uploaded to the cloud. Similarly additional information about the person can be downloaded from the cloud to the contact lens and or to a third party system if so desired by the person.

While is described and shown as having a single light sensor in various implementations the circuit of can include any number of light sensors. Further in various implementations the one or more light sensors power component and or readout circuitry can be arranged in any configuration as shown in .

Turning now to a contact lens having a circular array of one or more light sensors is shown. The contact lens can include a substrate formed to cover at least a portion of an iris of an eye. In some implementations the substrate can be transparent e.g. a transparent polymer. The contact lens can include a plurality of light sensors arranged in an array on or within the substrate . For example the light sensors can be arranged in a circular array. In other implementations any number of other types of formations and or arrays of light sensors can be designed over the substrate . While four light sensors are shown any number of light sensors can be employed as determined by the apparatus and or system designer. The light sensors can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of light sensor and vice versa described in this disclosure.

The readout circuitry can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to the light sensors and or power component . As such the readout circuitry can read the information detected and or generated by the light sensors . The readout circuitry can output the information generated by the light sensors and or generated by the readout circuitry . The readout circuitry can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of readout circuitry and vice versa described in this disclosure.

The power component can provide power to the readout circuitry . The power can be provided wirelessly. In various implementations the power component can receive power via optical and or RF approaches. The power component can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of power component and vice versa described in this disclosure.

Turning now to a contact lens having a group of randomly placed light sensors is shown. The contact lens can include a substrate formed to cover at least a portion of an iris of an eye. In some implementations the substrate can be transparent e.g. a transparent polymer. The contact lens can include a plurality of light sensors arranged in a random or semi random layout on or within the substrate . Certain regions of the substrate may be excluded from potentially including a light sensor e.g. a region at the center of the substrate. In some implementations any number of other types of formations and or arrays of light sensors can be designed over the substrate . While three light sensors are shown any number of light sensors can be employed as determined by the apparatus and or system designer. The light sensors can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of light sensor and vice versa described in this disclosure.

The readout circuitry can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to the light sensors . As such the readout circuitry can read the information detected and or generated by the light sensors . The readout circuitry can output the information generated by the light sensors and or generated by the readout circuitry . The readout circuitry can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of readout circuitry and vice versa described in this disclosure.

The power component can provide power to the readout circuitry . The power can be provided wirelessly. In various implementations the power component can receive power via optical and or RF approaches. The power component can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of power component and vice versa described in this disclosure.

In some implementations the structure and or functionality of circuit can be as described with reference to circuit of . In some implementations one or more of the structure and or functionality of the light sensor power component and or readout circuitry can have the structure and or functionality of any of the light sensors power component and or readout circuitry described with reference to B and C. Similarly the light sensors power component and or readout circuitry described with reference to B and C can have the structure and or functionality of light sensor power component and or readout circuitry respectively.

In some implementations the power component can be coupled to the readout circuitry to provide power to the readout circuitry . The light sensor can be coupled to the readout circuitry to enable communication between the light sensor and the readout circuitry . For example the readout circuitry can read or detect the light filtered by the iris that is sensed by the light sensor . In some implementations the readout circuitry can detect and or generate an iris fingerprint based on the light filtered by the iris and sensed by the light sensor .

In some implementations the readout circuitry can include a communication component configured to transmit and or receive information collected and or generated by the readout circuitry . For example the communication component can be configured to transmit and or receive the iris fingerprint and or other information about the wearer of the contact lens. In some implementations the other information about the wearer of the contact lens can include passport information driver s license information passwords biographical information medical information e.g. for use by medical personnel during a medical emergency pictures or the like as may be authorized by the wearer. The information can be transmitted and or received in response to biometric identification of the wearer of the contact lens. For example information can be transmitted and or received to or from a server based or cloud based system in response to the successful identification.

In some implementations the communication component can be configured to transmit the iris fingerprint to a reader of the contact lens located remote from the contact lens.

In some implementations the communication component can be configured to transmit the iris fingerprint to a secure device to unlock the device. The secure device can include but is not limited to an automobile or door lock computer telephone safe deposit box or the like.

The readout circuitry can also include memory and a logic circuitry . The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the circuit . For example memory can store computer executable instructions in some implementations for performing the functions of iris fingerprint generation reading out information indicative of light filtered by the iris and detected by the light sensor receiving and or responding to a polling signal or the like. In some implementations the memory can store information about the wearer of the contact lens including but not limited to biographical information pictures passport information driver s license information emergency medical information e.g. allergies or particular medical conditions or the like as provided by the wearer. Logic circuitry can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to readout circuitry or components thereof .

The communication component can be configured to transmit and or receive information to or from the contact lens and or a third party system. For example the communication component can transmit information e.g. the iris fingerprint and or authorization to unlock a security device or system a password being transmitted based on a determination by the biometric identification system that the wearer of the contact lens has been authenticated etc. .

In some implementations the communication component can upload and or download information associated with a person wearing the contact lens.

The comparison component can compare a first iris fingerprint with a second iris fingerprint. The first and or second fingerprint can be stored locally at the biometric identification system e.g. in the memory of the biometric identification system or remotely at a location other than the biometric identification system e.g. in the contact lens . In some implementations the first iris fingerprint can be retrieved from the contact lens and the second iris fingerprint can be a previously stored fingerprint. The comparison component can include and or be operably coupled to a fingerprinting component .

In some implementations the fingerprinting component can generate the first and or second iris fingerprint. The first and or second fingerprint can be generated based at least on an iris pattern retrieved from circuitry coupled to one or more light sensors disposed on or within the contact lens e.g. the readout circuitry described with reference to B C and or .

The biometric match component can determine whether a biometric match exists between the first and second fingerprints. The determination can be based at least on the comparison by the comparison component .

The security component can lock and or unlock a device based on the determination by the biometric match component as to whether a match exists. In some implementations the security component can unlock a device based on a determination that a biometric match exists.

In some implementations the security component can provide access to another system not shown based at least on a determination that a biometric match exists. In various implementations the system to which access is provided can be a cloud based system an automobile or other transportation system a door security system a computer security system and or a mobile phone security system.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the biometric identification system . The logic circuitry can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the biometric identification system or components thereof .

At method can include detecting at one or more light sensors disposed on or within a transparent lens covering at least a portion of the eye light reflected from light incident on the iris of the eye e.g. using the light sensor . The light reflected can include image data indicative of a pattern associated with the iris.

In some implementations the one or more light sensors can be a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS light sensor or a monochromatic light sensor. For example in some implementations the one or more light sensors can be configured to detect light of one or more selected wavelengths.

At method can include outputting an iris fingerprint based in part on the image data e.g. using the communication component of the readout circuitry . In some implementations outputting the image data can be performed wirelessly. In some implementations outputting the image data is performed according to a near field communication standard. For example a near field communication can be provided via a mobile telephone that can emit a signal to scan the contact lens and or that can emit a polling signal to poll the contact lens and thereby cause the outputting of the iris fingerprint.

Although not shown method can also include receiving a polling signal at the communication component of the readout circuitry . In these implementations outputting the image data can be performed periodically in response to receiving the polling signal.

Although not shown method can also include receiving power at the one or more light sensors e.g. using the light sensor . The power can be received wirelessly in some implementations.

At method can include comparing a first iris fingerprint with a second iris fingerprint e.g. using the comparison component . In various implementations the first iris fingerprint or the second iris fingerprint can be generated based at least on an iris pattern retrieved via polling one or more light sensors disposed on or within a contact lens. The polling can be performed periodically in some implementations. In some implementations the polling can be performed over a wireless communication channel according to a near field communication standard.

The first and or second fingerprints can be generated by the fingerprinting component in some implementations. In some embodiments the first and or second fingerprint can be received for comparison with the other fingerprint which may be stored in a memory or database for example.

The one or more light sensors can be configured to detect light filtered by an iris on which the contact lens is substantially positioned. In some implementations the one or more light sensors can be CMOS light sensors.

At method can include determining whether a biometric match exists between the first iris fingerprint and the second iris fingerprint based at least on the comparing e.g. using the biometric match component .

One or more of the apparatus systems and or methods described herein can be employed in or in association with automotive consumer electronics and or security apparatus systems and or methods. In various implementations one or more of the apparatus systems and or methods can be employed in systems governed by fingerprinting standards iris recognition and or identification standards or the like.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that various aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where user verification e.g. fingerprints may be found. In this regard the various implementations described in this disclosure can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various implementations of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network can include other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or can represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the various implementations of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various implementations.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client can be a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client can utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

As used in this application the terms component component system and the like are intended to refer to a computing related entity either hardware software firmware a combination of hardware and software software and or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and or the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can process data or request transaction services or tasks that can implicate the techniques for systems as described in this disclosure for one or more implementations.

A server can be typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described in this disclosure can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus can be the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Objects etc. can also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described in this disclosure can be applied to any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various implementations e.g. anywhere that a device may wish to read or write transactions from or to a data store or wherein secure devices may need to be locked unlocked and or otherwise accessed either from locations proximate to or remote from the device. Accordingly the below remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer such as a user fingerprint server a biometric identification server or other server components.

Although not required implementations can be partly implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various implementations described in this disclosure. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program components being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing environment for implementing one or more implementations includes a computing device in the form of a computer is provided. Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program components and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touch screen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner video camera or any other device that allows the user to interact with the computer . A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

As mentioned above while exemplary implementations have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts can be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish or consume media in a flexible way.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques detailed herein. Thus implementations herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described in this disclosure. Thus various implementations described in this disclosure can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer can be typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program components structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program components or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

It is to be understood that aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers logic circuitry and or other electronic units designed to perform the functions described in this disclosure or a combination thereof.

When the aspects are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium or a computer readable storage medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a component a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described in this disclosure can be implemented with components or components e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described in this disclosure. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. A memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various structures.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more implementations. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned implementations but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various implementations are possible. Accordingly the described implementations are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover use of the term an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same implementation unless specifically described as such. Further use of the term plurality can mean two or more.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described in this disclosure. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described in this disclosure after.

In addition to the various implementations described in this disclosure it is to be understood that other similar implementations can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described implementation s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding implementation s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described in this disclosure and similarly storage can be provided across a plurality of devices. The invention is not to be limited to any single implementation but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

