---

title: Anti-IL-23 antibodies
abstract: The present invention relates to anti-IL-23p19 binding compounds, in particular new humanized anti-IL-23p19 antibodies and therapeutic and diagnostic methods and compositions for using the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09441036&OS=09441036&RS=09441036
owner: BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM INTERNATIONAL GMBH
number: 09441036
owner_city: Ingelheim am Rhein
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140612
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 287 208 filed Nov. 2 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 778 346 issued on 15 Jul. 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 448 785 filed Mar. 3 2011 U.S. Provisional Application 61 412 594 filed Nov. 11 2010 U.S. Provisional Application 61 411 953 filed Nov. 10 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application 61 410 158 filed Nov. 4 2010 the disclosure of each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention generally relates to anti IL 23p19 antibodies for diagnostic and therapeutic use. More specifically humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies and methods of use for the treatment of various diseases or disorders are disclosed. Pharmaceutical compositions and kits comprising such compounds are also disclosed.

Higher eukaryotes have evolved an intricate response to pathogens that is initiated by the innate immune response and followed by the adaptive immune response. Together these two mechanisms not only eradicate pathogens that infect the organism but also establish a long term immunological response against future exposures. Deficiencies in these responses can result in increased susceptibility to infections and or alterations of the adaptive immune response leading to chronic inflammation and autoimmunity. IL 12 a heterodimeric cytokine consisting of a p40 and a p35 protein subunit has long been considered the hallmark cytokine of the innate immune response with major influence on adaptive immunity. However data from investigation of this cytokine s biological role led to confusing results. For example while p40 deficient mice were resistant to Collagen Induced Arthritis CIA and Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis EAE p35 deficient mice were susceptible to both and even displayed exacerbated disease. Such conundrums began to be resolved with the discovery in the late 1990 s of a new member of the IL 12 cytokine family with a distinct role in the immune response IL 23.

IL 23 is composed of a common subunit p40 with IL 12 and a unique p19 subunit. Despite this shared p40 subunit the roles for IL 23 and IL 12 are quite different. IL 12 is important for Th1 responses via promotion of Th1 cell differentiation proliferation and activation. In contrast IL 23 supports the development and maintenance of a recently defined set of CD4 T helper cells termed Th17 cells due to their ability to produce IL 17 and related cytokines. There is mounting evidence that IL 23 is involved in chronic autoimmune inflammation and the modulation of IL 23 activity could provide promising therapies against autoimmune diseases.

There is therefore a need for antagonist molecules against IL 23 with beneficial pharmacological properties which can be used as therapeutic agents to treat diseases in particular immunological and autoimmune diseases in humans.

Accordingly one aim of the present invention is to provide anti IL 23 antagonist molecules in particular anti IL 23 antagonist molecules which have high binding affinity to IL 23.

A further aim of the present invention is to provide anti IL 23 antagonist molecules which have high specificity for IL 23.

A further aim of the present invention is to provide anti IL 23 antagonists which have high blocking activity for the association of IL 23 and its receptor.

A further aim of the present invention is to provide anti IL 23 antagonists which have potent cellular activity.

A further aim of the present invention is to provide anti IL 23 antagonists which have a favorable bioavailability.

A further aim of the present invention is to provide anti IL 23 antagonists which have favorable biophysical properties.

The present invention addresses the above needs and provides antibodies that bind to the p19 subunit of the IL 23 protein. In one aspect an antibody of the present invention binds to human IL 23 with high affinity. In another aspect an antibody of the present invention inhibits the IL 23 stimulated production of IL 17 from mouse splenocytes. In another aspect an antibody of the present invention does not bind to nor antagonize IL 12 which is a closely related family member to IL 23.

In one embodiment the present invention provides anti IL 23p19 antibodies that are derived from mouse hybridomas for example monoclonal antibodies. In one embodiment the present invention provides full length anti IL 23p19 antibodies. In another embodiment the present invention provides anti IL 23p19 humanized antibodies for example humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibodies for example full length humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibodies. In one aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention binds to human IL 23 with high affinity. In another aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention also binds to cynomolgus IL 23 with high affinity. In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention inhibits IL 23 induced STAT3 phosphorylation in DB cells. In another aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention antagonizes the action of IL 23 by binding to the p19 subunit of IL 23 for example as measured by the inhibition of cytokines such as IL 17 and IL 22 whose production is stimulated by IL 23. In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has a favorable pharmacokinetic PK profile. In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has favorable biophysical properties such as quality stability or solubility for example as defined by the percentage of antibody in monomer form.

Further embodiments encompass DNA molecules encoding antibodies of the present invention expression vectors and host cells comprising such DNA molecules and methods of making antibodies of the present invention. The present invention further provides therapeutic uses for the antibodies of the present invention in particular against immunological and autoimmune diseases.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a light chain CDR1 L CDR1 sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 4 6 7 8 11 15 18 19 22 27 or 30 a light chain CDR2 L CDR2 sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 5 9 12 16 20 23 25 28 or 31 a light chain CDR3 L CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 10 13 14 17 21 24 26 29 or 32 a heavy chain CDR1 H CDR1 sequence of SEQ ID NO 33 36 38 40 43 45 48 51 54 57 60 63 66 67 68 69 77 or 80 a heavy chain CDR2 H CDR2 sequence of SEQ ID NO 34 39 41 46 49 52 55 58 61 64 70 72 73 75 78 or 81 and a heavy chain CDR3 H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 35 37 42 44 47 50 53 56 59 62 65 71 74 76 79 or 82. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising a L CDR1 listed above a L CDR2 listed above and a L CDR3 listed above and a heavy chain variable region comprising a H CDR1 listed above a H CDR2 listed above and a H CDR3 listed above.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 2 3 33 34 and 35 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 5 3 36 34 and 37 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 2 3 38 39 and 35 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 6 2 3 40 41 and 42 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 7 2 3 43 41 and 44 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 8 9 10 45 46 and 47 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 8 9 10 48 49 and 50 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 11 12 13 51 52 and 53 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 7 2 14 54 55 and 56 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 15 16 17 57 58 and 59 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 18 16 17 60 61 and 62 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 20 21 63 66 67 or 68 64 and 65 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 22 23 24 69 70 and 71 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 22 25 26 55 72 and 71 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 8 9 10 45 73 and 74 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 27 28 29 45 75 and 76 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 8 9 10 77 78 and 79 respectively or a L CDR1 a L CDR2 a L CDR3 a H CDR1 a H CDR2 and a H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 30 31 32 80 81 and 82 respectively. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising a L CDR1 L CDR2 and L CDR3 combination listed above and a heavy chain variable region comprising a H CDR1 H CDR2 and H CDR3 combination listed above.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 84 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 121 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 86 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 123 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 88 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 125 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 90 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 127 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 91 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 128 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 93 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 130 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 95 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 132 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 97 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 134 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 99 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 136 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 101 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 138 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 103 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 140 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 105 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 142 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 107 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 144 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 109 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 146 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 111 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 148 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 113 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 150 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 115 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 152 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 117 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 154 or a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 119 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 156.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 and 164 and a heavy chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 and 172.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof has a Kfor IL 23 of less than 40 pM or a Kfor IL 23 of less than 20 oM or Kfor IL 23 of less than 10 pM or Kfor IL 23 of less than 1 pM.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that binds to human IL 23p19 at an epitope consisting of amino acid residues 108 to 126 and amino acid residues 137 to 151 of SEQ ID NO 181.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that competitively binds to human IL 23p19 with an antibody of the present invention. In one embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that competitively binds to human IL 23p19 with a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 176. In one embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that competitively binds to human IL 23p19 with a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 178. In one embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that competitively binds to human IL 23p19 with a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 176. In one embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that competitively binds to human IL 23p19 with a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 178.

In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized antibody. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a monoclonal antibody. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a full length antibody. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody. In one embodiment the antigen binding fragment is a Fab F ab or single chain Fv fragment. In one embodiment the antigen binding fragment comprises a light chain variable region and a heavy chain variable region.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 CDR1 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 CDR2 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 21 CDR3 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 63 66 67 or 68 CDR1 H the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 64 CDR2 H and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 65 CDR3 H .

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 CDR1 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 CDR2 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 21 CDR3 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 66 CDR1 H the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 64 CDR2 H and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 65 CDR3 H .

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 CDR1 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 CDR2 L and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 21 CDR3 L and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 63 66 67 or 68 CDR1 H the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 64 CDR2 H and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 65 CDR3 H .

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 or antigen binding fragment thereof antibody wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 CDR1 L the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 CDR2 L and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 21 CDR3 L and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 66 CDR1 H the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 64 CDR2 H and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 65 CDR3 H .

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 or 164 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence any one of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 or 172.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 166.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 168.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 166.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 168.

In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized antibody. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a monoclonal antibody. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a full length antibody. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody. In one embodiment the antigen binding fragment is a Fab F ab or single chain Fv fragment. In one embodiment the antigen binding fragment comprises a light chain variable region and a heavy chain variable region.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an antibody comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 166 or 168 linked to a human IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgM IgA or IgE heavy chain constant region. An antibody comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166 or 168 linked to a human IgG1 heavy chain constant region. An antibody comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 or 160 linked to a human kappa or lambda light chain constant region. An antibody comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 or 160 linked to a human kappa light chain constant region.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an antibody comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166 or 168 linked to a human IgG1 heavy chain constant region and the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 or 160 linked to a human kappa light chain constant region.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of any one of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 and 164 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of any one of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 and 172.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 166.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 168.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 166.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 168.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 or 180 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 or 178.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 176.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 178.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 176.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody comprising a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 178.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 160 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 166 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 160 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 168 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 168. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 158 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 166 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 158 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 168 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 168. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized by a Kfor human IL 23 equal or less than 1 M. In one aspect there is no shift in binding on rate in 50 human serum.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it blocks IL 23 binding to human IL 23R Fc in vitro.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it does not bind to human IL 12.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it inhibits human IL 23 induced IL 17 production in mouse splenocytes with IC s equal or less than 20 pM.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it inhibits human IL 23 induced STAT3 phosphorylation in human DB cells with IC s equal or less than 40 pM.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it has no predicted activity in ADCC CDC.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it has a Kequal or less than 1 pM for cynomolgus monkey IL 23.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it has no cross reactivity to mouse or rat IL 23.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it inhibits human IL 23 induced IL 17 and IL 22 production in a mouse ear at 80 or greater inhibition of both cytokines at 1 mg kg.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized by a melting temperature of 83 C. as determined by differential scanning calorimetry.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized by solubility equal or greater than 100 mg ml as measured by UV spectroscopy and monitored by turbidity.

In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it is present in at least 90 monomer form or in at least 92 monomer form or in at least 95 monomer form in a buffer.

In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention may be further characterized in that it remains in at least 90 monomer form or in at least 92 monomer form or in at least 95 monomer form in a buffer for one month or for four months.

In one aspect the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody.

Further embodiments encompass a DNA molecule encoding a variable light chain region above a DNA molecule encoding a variable heavy chain region above a DNA molecule encoding a light chain region above or a DNA molecule encoding a heavy chain region above.

Further embodiments encompass an expression vector containing a DNA molecule above. In one embodiment an expression vector comprises a DNA molecule encoding the constant heavy chain and or the constant light chain respectively linked to the DNA molecule encoding the variable heavy chain and or the variable light chain respectively. Further embodiments encompass a host cell carrying one or more expression vectors above. In one embodiment a host is a mammalian cell.

Further embodiments encompass a method for producing an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof above comprising transfecting a mammalian host cell with one or more of the vectors above cultivating the host cell and recovering and purifying the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof.

Further embodiments encompass a method for producing an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof above comprising obtaining a mammalian host cell comprising one or more of the vectors above and cultivating the host cell. In one embodiment the method further comprises recovering and purifying the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof above for use in medicine. In one embodiment the use is the treatment of an inflammatory disease of an autoimmune disease of a respiratory disease of a metabolic disorder or of cancer. In one embodiment the use is for the treatment of psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis psoriatic arthritis multiple sclerosis rheumatoid arthritis or ankylosing spondylitis. In one embodiment the use is for the treatment of psoriasis. In one embodiment the use is for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody molecule or antigen binding fragment above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a method for treating an inflammatory disease an autoimmune disease a respiratory disease a metabolic disorder or cancer comprising administering to a subject in need thereof for example a patient an effective amount of an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof above or a pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof. In one embodiment the antibody or antigen binding fragment is administered by a parenteral route of administration or is administered intravenously or subcutaneously. In one embodiment the antibody or antigen binding fragment is administered subcutaneously. In one embodiment the disease is psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis psoriatic arthritis multiple sclerosis rheumatoid arthritis or ankylosing spondylitis. In one embodiment the disease is psoriasis. In one embodiment the disease is inflammatory bowel disease.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a method for inhibiting the binding of IL 23 to the IL 23 receptor on a mammalian cell comprising administering to the cell an antibody molecule or antigen binding fragment above whereby signaling mediated by the IL 23 receptor is inhibited.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a method for treating a subject having an IL 23 associated disorder comprising administering to the subject an antibody or antigen binding fragment above which antibody or antigen binding fragment binds to human IL 23.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a method for detecting and or quantifying IL 23 levels in a biological sample by contacting the sample with an antibody or antigen binding fragment above and detecting binding of the antibody or fragment thereof with IL 23p19. This information can be used to diagnose an IL 23 associated disorder. Thus methods are provided for diagnosing an IL 23 associated disorder or for determining if a subject has an increased risk of developing an IL 23 associated disorder wherein the method comprises contacting a biological sample from a subject with an antibody or antigen binding fragment above and detecting binding of the antibody or antigen binding fragment to IL 23p19 to determine the expression or concentration of IL 23.

In one embodiment the present invention further provides a method for inhibiting the binding of IL 23 to the IL 23 receptor on a cell comprising administering to the cell or cellular environment an antibody or antigen binding fragment above whereby signaling mediated by the IL 23 receptor is inhibited.

The p19 subunit of IL 23 also referred to herein as IL 23p19 and p19 subunit is a 189 amino acid polypeptide containing a 21 aa leader sequence Oppmann et al. Immunity 13 715 2000 SEQ ID NO 181 . The biological activity of the molecule is only detected when it is partnered with the IL 12p40 subunit to form IL 23. IL 23 is predominantly expressed by activated dendritic cells DCs and phagocytic cells. The receptor for IL 23 was found to be composed of the IL 12R 1 subunit of IL 12 receptor partnered with a unique subunit called IL 23R Parham et al. J. Immunol. 168 5699 2002 . Expression of the receptor is detected primarily on memory T cells and NK cells. Thus expression of this cytokine receptor pair appears to be restricted to specific populations of immune cells. While it was first thought that IL 12 and IL 23 would share many functions the data has shown the picture to be different. Whereas IL 12 has a predominant role in the production of Th1 cells IL 23 was found to be critically involved in the production and maintenance of a recently recognized Th cell subset termed Th17 Kikly et al. Curr. Opin. Immunol. 18 670 2006 Kastelein et al. Ann. Rev. Immunol. 25 221 2007 . These cells produce IL 17A IL 17F IL 22 and other pro inflammatory cytokines such as IL 6 and TNF . As described below animal model studies on the role of these Th17 cells show their importance as a driving force in chronic inflammation and autoimmunity.

The present invention provides antibodies that bind to the p19 subunit of the IL 23 in particular human IL 23p19. The present invention also relates to humanized antibodies that recognize the p19 subunit of IL 23. In specific embodiments the sequence of these humanized antibodies has been identified based on the sequences of certain lead mouse antibodies.

The lead mouse antibodies of the present invention were derived from mouse hybridomas. The immunization of the mice is carried out using different techniques. For example antibodies that are specific for human IL 23p19 proteins or fragments thereof can be raised against an immunogenic antigen such as an isolated IL 23p19 protein an isolated IL 23 protein an isolated hybrid IL 23 protein and or a portion thereof of any of the above including synthetic peptides . For example a hybrid IL 23 protein comprising a mouse IL 23p40 subunit and a human IL 23p19 subunit is used to immunize mice. Preparation of immunogenic antigens and monoclonal antibody production can be performed using any suitable technique known in the art.

The lead mouse antibodies were selected based on their high affinity to human IL 23. Accordingly in one aspect the present invention provides an antibody that binds to human IL 23 with high affinity. Selected mouse antibodies were humanized to result in humanized antibodies. The humanized antibodies of the present invention bind to human IL 23 with high affinity. Accordingly in another aspect the present invention provides a humanized antibody that binds to human IL 23 with high affinity. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody having a Kof less than 40 pM. In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody having a Kof less than 20 pM. In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody having a Kless than 10 pM. In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody having a Kless than 1 pM.

In another aspect an antibody of the present invention binds to IL 23p19 with high affinity in the absence of human serum or in the presence of 50 human serum.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention also binds to cynomolgus monkey IL 23 with high affinity.

In another aspect an antibody of the present invention binds to IL 23 but does not bind to IL 12. In a further aspect an antibody of the present invention does not interfere with the biological activity of IL 12 which is a closely related family member to IL 23.

In another aspect an antibody of the present invention inhibits the IL 23 stimulated production of IL 17 from mouse splenocytes.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention inhibits IL 23 induced STAT3 phosphorylation in DB cells.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention antagonizes the action of IL 23 by binding to the p19 subunit of IL 23 as measured by the inhibition of cytokines such as IL 17 and IL 22 whose production is stimulated by IL 23 and detected by the reduction in the levels of these cytokines.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile PK profile as exemplified by in vivo half life in cynomolgus monkeys.

In a further aspect a humanized monoclonal anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has favorable biophysical properties for example quality stability or solubility.

In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized antibody. In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a monoclonal antibody. In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a full length antibody. In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody for example a full length humanized monoclonal antibody.

An antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof of the present invention recognizes specific IL 23p19 antigen epitope or IL 23p19 epitope . As used herein these terms refer to a molecule e.g. a peptide or a fragment of a molecule capable of immunoreactivity with an anti IL 23p19 antibody and for example include an IL 23p19 antigenic determinant recognized by the any of the antibodies having a light chain heavy chain sequence combination of SEQ ID NO 84 121 86 123 88 125 90 127 91 128 93 130 95 132 97 134 99 136 101 138 103 140 105 142 107 144 109 146 111 148 113 150 115 152 117 154 119 156 160 166 160 168 158 166 or 158 168. IL 23p19 antigen epitopes can be included in proteins protein fragments peptides or the like. The epitopes are most commonly proteins short oligopeptides oligopeptide mimics i.e. organic compounds that mimic antibody binding properties of the IL 23p19 antigen or combinations thereof. The minimum size of a peptide or polypeptide epitope for an antibody is thought to be about four to five amino acids. Peptide or polypeptide epitopes contain for example at least seven amino acids or for example at least nine amino acids or for example between about 15 to about 20 amino acids. Since an antibody can recognize an antigenic peptide or polypeptide in its tertiary form the amino acids comprising an epitope need not be contiguous and in some cases may not even be on the same peptide chain. Epitopes may be determined by various techniques known in the art such as X ray crystallography Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry HXMS site directed mutagenesis alanine scanning mutagenesis and peptide screening methods.

The generalized structure of antibodies or immunoglobulin is well known to those of skill in the art. These molecules are heterotetrameric glycoproteins typically of about 150 000 daltons composed of two identical light L chains and two identical heavy H chains and are typically referred to as full length antibodies. Each light chain is covalently linked to a heavy chain by one disulfide bond to form a heterodimer and the heterotrameric molecule is formed through a covalent disulfide linkage between the two identical heavy chains of the heterodimers. Although the light and heavy chains are linked together by one disulfide bond the number of disulfide linkages between the two heavy chains varies by immunoglobulin isotype. Each heavy and light chain also has regularly spaced intrachain disulfide bridges. Each heavy chain has at the amino terminus a variable domain V followed by three or four constant domains C C C and C as well as a hinge region between Cand C. Each light chain has two domains an amino terminal variable domain V and a carboxy terminal constant domain C . The Vdomain associates non covalently with the Vdomain whereas the Cdomain is commonly covalently linked to the Cdomain via a disulfide bond. Particular amino acid residues are believed to form an interface between the light and heavy chain variable domains Chothia et al. 1985 J. Mol. Biol. 186 651 663 . Variable domains are also referred herein as variable regions.

Certain domains within the variable domains differ extensively between different antibodies i.e. are hypervariable. These hypervariable domains contain residues that are directly involved in the binding and specificity of each particular antibody for its specific antigenic determinant. Hypervariability both in the light chain and the heavy chain variable domains is concentrated in three segments known as complementarity determining regions CDRs or hypervariable loops HVLs . CDRs are defined by sequence comparison in Kabat et al. 1991 In Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest 5Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. whereas HVLs also referred herein as CDRs are structurally defined according to the three dimensional structure of the variable domain as described by Chothia and Lesk 1987 J. Mol. Biol. 196 901 917. These two methods result in slightly different identifications of a CDR. As defined by Kabat CDR L1 is positioned at about residues 24 34 CDR L2 at about residues 50 56 and CDR L3 at about residues 89 97 in the light chain variable domain CDR H1 is positioned at about residues 31 35 CDR H2 at about residues 50 65 and CDR H3 at about residues 95 102 in the heavy chain variable domain. The exact residue numbers that encompass a particular CDR will vary depending on the sequence and size of the CDR. Those skilled in the art can routinely determine which residues comprise a particular CDR given the variable region amino acid sequence of the antibody. The CDR1 CDR2 CDR3 of the heavy and light chains therefore define the unique and functional properties specific for a given antibody.

The three CDRs within each of the heavy and light chains are separated by framework regions FR which contain sequences that tend to be less variable. From the amino terminus to the carboxy terminus of the heavy and light chain variable domains the FRs and CDRs are arranged in the order FR1 CDR1 FR2 CDR2 FR3 CDR3 and FR4. The largely sheet configuration of the FRs brings the CDRs within each of the chains into close proximity to each other as well as to the CDRs from the other chain. The resulting conformation contributes to the antigen binding site see Kabat et al. 1991 NIH Publ. No. 91 3242 Vol. I pages 647 669 although not all CDR residues are necessarily directly involved in antigen binding.

FR residues and Ig constant domains are not directly involved in antigen binding but contribute to antigen binding and or mediate antibody effector function. Some FR residues are thought to have a significant effect on antigen binding in at least three ways by noncovalently binding directly to an epitope by interacting with one or more CDR residues and by affecting the interface between the heavy and light chains. The constant domains are not directly involved in antigen binding but mediate various Ig effector functions such as participation of the antibody in antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis ADCP .

The light chains of vertebrate immunoglobulins are assigned to one of two clearly distinct classes kappa and lambda based on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain. By comparison the heavy chains of mammalian immunoglobulins are assigned to one of five major classes according to the sequence of the constant domains IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM. IgG and IgA are further divided into subclasses isotypes e.g. IgG IgG IgG IgG IgA and IgA. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of immunoglobulins are called and respectively. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of the classes of native immunoglobulins are well known.

The terms antibody anti IL 23p19 antibody humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody humanized anti IL 23p19 epitope antibody and variant humanized anti IL 23p19 epitope antibody specifically encompass monoclonal antibodies including full length monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and antibody fragments such as variable domains and other portions of antibodies that exhibit a desired biological activity e.g. IL 23p19 binding. The term monoclonal antibody mAb refers to an antibody that is highly specific being directed against a single antigenic determinant an epitope . Therefore the modifier monoclonal is indicative of antibodies directed to the identical epitope and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. It should be understood that monoclonal antibodies can be made by any technique or methodology known in the art including e.g. the hybridoma method Kohler et al. 1975 Nature 256 495 or recombinant DNA methods known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 or methods of isolation of monoclonal recombinantly produced using phage antibody libraries using techniques described in Clackson et al. 1991 Nature 352 624 628 and Marks et al. 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 597.

The term monomer refers to a homogenous form of an antibody. For example for a full length antibody monomer means a monomeric antibody having two identical heavy chains and two identical light chains.

Chimeric antibodies consist of the heavy and light chain variable regions of an antibody from one species e.g. a non human mammal such as a mouse and the heavy and light chain constant regions of another species e.g. human antibody and can be obtained by linking the DNA sequences encoding the variable regions of the antibody from the first species e.g. mouse to the DNA sequences for the constant regions of the antibody from the second e.g. human species and transforming a host with an expression vector containing the linked sequences to allow it to produce a chimeric antibody. Alternatively the chimeric antibody also could be one in which one or more regions or domains of the heavy and or light chain is identical with homologous to or a variant of the corresponding sequence in a monoclonal antibody from another immunoglobulin class or isotype or from a consensus or germline sequence. Chimeric antibodies can include fragments of such antibodies provided that the antibody fragment exhibits the desired biological activity of its parent antibody for example binding to the same epitope see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al. 1984 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 6851 6855 .

The terms antibody fragment anti IL 23p19 antibody fragment anti IL 23p19 epitope antibody fragment humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody fragment humanized anti IL 23p19 epitope antibody fragment variant humanized anti IL 23p19 epitope antibody fragment refer to a portion of a full length anti IL 23p19 antibody in which a variable region or a functional capability is retained for example specific IL 23p19 epitope binding. Examples of antibody fragments include but are not limited to a Fab Fab F ab Fd Fv scFv and scFv Fc fragment a diabody a linear antibody a single chain antibody a minibody a diabody formed from antibody fragments and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.

Full length antibodies can be treated with enzymes such as papain or pepsin to generate useful antibody fragments. Papain digestion is used to produces two identical antigen binding antibody fragments called Fab fragments each with a single antigen binding site and a residual Fc fragment. The Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the Cdomain of the heavy chain. Pepsin treatment yields a F ab fragment that has two antigen binding sites and is still capable of cross linking antigen.

Fab fragments differ from Fab fragments by the presence of additional residues including one or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region at the C terminus of the Cdomain. F ab antibody fragments are pairs of Fab fragments linked by cysteine residues in the hinge region. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known.

 Fv fragment contains a complete antigen recognition and binding site consisting of a dimer of one heavy and one light chain variable domain in tight non covalent association. In this configuration the three CDRs of each variable domain interact to define an antigen biding site on the surface of the V Vdimer. Collectively the six CDRs confer antigen binding specificity to the antibody.

A single chain Fv or scFv antibody fragment is a single chain Fv variant comprising the Vand Vdomains of an antibody where the domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. The single chain Fv is capable of recognizing and binding antigen. The scFv polypeptide may optionally also contain a polypeptide linker positioned between the Vand Vdomains in order to facilitate formation of a desired three dimensional structure for antigen binding by the scFv see e.g. Pluckthun 1994 In The Pharmacology of monoclonal Antibodies Vol. 113 Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315 .

A diabody refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen binding sites which fragments comprise a heavy chain variable domain V.sub.H connected to a light chain variable domain V.sub.L in the same polypeptide chain V.sub.H V.sub.L or V.sub.L V.sub.H . Diabodies are described more fully in e.g. Holliger et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6444 6448.

Other recognized antibody fragments include those that comprise a pair of tandem Fd segments V C V C to form a pair of antigen binding regions. These linear antibodies can be bispecific or monospecific as described in for example Zapata et al. 1995 Protein Eng. 8 10 1057 1062.

A humanized antibody or a humanized antibody fragment is a specific type of chimeric antibody which includes an immunoglobulin amino acid sequence variant or fragment thereof which is capable of binding to a predetermined antigen and which comprises one or more FRs having substantially the amino acid sequence of a human immunoglobulin and one or more CDRs having substantially the amino acid sequence of a non human immunoglobulin. This non human amino acid sequence often referred to as an import sequence is typically taken from an import antibody domain particularly a variable domain. In general a humanized antibody includes at least the CDRs or HVLs of a non human antibody inserted between the FRs of a human heavy or light chain variable domain. The present invention describes specific humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies which contain CDRs derived from the mouse monoclonal antibodies or humanized CDRs shown in Tables 3 and 4 inserted between the FRs of human germline sequence heavy and light chain variable domains. It will be understood that certain mouse FR residues may be important to the function of the humanized antibodies and therefore certain of the human germline sequence heavy and light chain variable domains residues are modified to be the same as those of the corresponding mouse sequence.

In another aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody comprises substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains such as contained for example in Fab Fab F ab 2 Fabc and Fv fragments in which all or substantially all of the CDRs correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and specifically herein all of the CDRs are mouse or humanized sequences as detailed in Tables 1 through 4 herein below and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immunoglobulin consensus or germline sequence. In another aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody also includes at least a portion of an immunoglobulin Fc region typically that of a human immunoglobulin. Ordinarily the antibody will contain both the light chain as well as at least the variable domain of a heavy chain. The antibody also may include one or more of the C hinge C C and or Cregions of the heavy chain as appropriate.

A humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody can be selected from any class of immunoglobulins including IgM IgG IgD IgA and IgE and any isotype including IgG IgG IgG IgG IgAand IgA. For example the constant domain can be a complement fixing constant domain where it is desired that the humanized antibody exhibit cytotoxic activity and the isotype is typically IgG. Where such cytotoxic activity is not desirable the constant domain may be of another isotype e.g. IgG. An alternative humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody can comprise sequences from more than one immunoglobulin class or isotype and selecting particular constant domains to optimize desired effector functions is within the ordinary skill in the art. In specific embodiments the present invention provides antibodies that are IgG1 antibodies and more particularly are IgG1 antibodies in which there is a knock out of effector functions.

The FRs and CDRs or HVLs of a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody need not correspond precisely to the parental sequences. For example one or more residues in the import CDR or HVL or the consensus or germline FR sequence may be altered e.g. mutagenized by substitution insertion or deletion such that the resulting amino acid residue is no longer identical to the original residue in the corresponding position in either parental sequence but the antibody nevertheless retains the function of binding to IL 23p19. Such alteration typically will not be extensive and will be conservative alterations. Usually at least 75 of the humanized antibody residues will correspond to those of the parental consensus or germline FR and import CDR sequences more often at least 90 and most frequently greater than 95 or greater than 98 or greater than 99 .

Immunoglobulin residues that affect the interface between heavy and light chain variable regions the V Vinterface are those that affect the proximity or orientation of the two chains with respect to one another. Certain residues that may be involved in interchain interactions include Vresidues 34 36 38 44 46 87 89 91 96 and 98 and Vresidues 35 37 39 45 47 91 93 95 100 and 103 utilizing the numbering system set forth in Kabat et al. Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1987 . U.S. Pat. No. 6 407 213 also discusses that residues such as Vresidues 43 and 85 and Vresidues 43 and 60 also may be involved in this interaction. While these residues are indicated for human IgG only they are applicable across species. Important antibody residues that are reasonably expected to be involved in interchain interactions are selected for substitution into the consensus sequence.

The terms consensus sequence and consensus antibody refer to an amino acid sequence which comprises the most frequently occurring amino acid residue at each location in all immunoglobulins of any particular class isotype or subunit structure e.g. a human immunoglobulin variable domain. The consensus sequence may be based on immunoglobulins of a particular species or of many species. A consensus sequence structure or antibody is understood to encompass a consensus human sequence as described in certain embodiments and to refer to an amino acid sequence which comprises the most frequently occurring amino acid residues at each location in all human immunoglobulins of any particular class isotype or subunit structure. Thus the consensus sequence contains an amino acid sequence having at each position an amino acid that is present in one or more known immunoglobulins but which may not exactly duplicate the entire amino acid sequence of any single immunoglobulin. The variable region consensus sequence is not obtained from any naturally produced antibody or immunoglobulin. Kabat et al. 1991 Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. and variants thereof. The FRs of heavy and light chain consensus sequences and variants thereof provide useful sequences for the preparation of humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 037 454 and 6 054 297.

Human germline sequences are found naturally in the human population. A combination of those germline genes generates antibody diversity. Germline antibody sequences for the light chain of the antibody come from conserved human germline kappa or lambda v genes and j genes. Similarly the heavy chain sequences come from germline v d and j genes LeFranc M P and LeFranc G The Immunoglobulin Facts Book Academic Press 2001 .

As used herein variant anti IL 23p19 variant humanized anti IL 23p19 variant or variant humanized anti IL 23p19 each refers to a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody having at least a light chain variable murine CDR from any of the sequences as shown in Table 1 or a heavy chain murine CDR sequence derived from the murine monoclonal antibody as shown in Table 2. Variants include those having one or more amino acid changes in one or both light chain or heavy chain variable domains provided that the amino acid change does not substantially impair binding of the antibody to IL 23p19. Exemplary humanized antibodies produced herein include those designated as Antibody A Antibody B Antibody C and Antibody D and the various light chains and heavy chains of the same are shown in SEQ ID Nos 174 and 180 and SEQ ID Nos 176 and 178 respectively.

An isolated antibody is one that has been identified and separated and or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of the antibody s natural environment are those materials that may interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses of the antibody and can be enzymes hormones or other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In one aspect the antibody will be purified to at least greater than 95 isolation by weight of antibody.

An isolated antibody includes an antibody in situ within recombinant cells in which it is produced since at least one component of the antibody s natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily however an isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step in which the recombinant cellular material is removed.

The term antibody performance refers to factors that contribute to antibody recognition of antigen or the effectiveness of an antibody in vivo. Changes in the amino acid sequence of an antibody can affect antibody properties such as folding and can influence physical factors such as initial rate of antibody binding to antigen k dissociation constant of the antibody from antigen k affinity constant of the antibody for the antigen Kd conformation of the antibody protein stability and half life of the antibody.

The term epitope tagged when used herein refers to an anti IL 23p19 antibody fused to an epitope tag . An epitope tag is a polypeptide having a sufficient number of amino acids to provide an epitope for antibody production yet is designed such that it does not interfere with the desired activity of the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody. The epitope tag is usually sufficiently unique such that an antibody raised against the epitope tag does not substantially cross react with other epitopes. Suitable tag polypeptides generally contain at least 6 amino acid residues and usually contain about 8 to 50 amino acid residues or about 9 to 30 residues. Examples of epitope tags and the antibody that binds the epitope include the flu HA tag polypeptide and its antibody 12CA5 Field et al. 1988 Mol. Cell. Biol. 8 2159 2165 c myc tag and 8F9 3C7 6E10 G4 B7 and 9E10 antibodies thereto Evan et al. 1985 Mol. Cell. Biol. 5 12 3610 3616 and Herpes simplex virus glycoprotein D gD tag and its antibody Paborsky et al. 1990 Protein Engineering 3 6 547 553 . In certain embodiments the epitope tag is a salvage receptor binding epitope . As used herein the term salvage receptor binding epitope refers to an epitope of the Fc region of an IgG molecule such as IgG IgG IgG or IgG that is responsible for increasing the in vivo serum half life of the IgG molecule.

In some embodiments the antibodies of the present invention may be conjugated to a cytotoxic agent. This is any substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes such as I I Y and Re chemotherapeutic agents and toxins such as enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin and fragments thereof. Such cytotoxic agents can be coupled to the humanized antibodies of the present invention using standard procedures and used for example to treat a patient indicated for therapy with the antibody.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. There are numerous examples of chemotherapeutic agents that could be conjugated with the therapeutic antibodies of the present invention. Examples of such chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such a thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues cryptophycines particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin auristatins including analogues monomethyl auristatin E and monomethyl auristatin F duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CBI TMI eleutherobin pancratistatin sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine ranimustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calichemicin gamma1I and calicheamicin phil1 see for example Agnew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromomophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycins dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine doxorubicin Adriamycin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubucin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycine quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such a methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adranals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine democolcine diaziquone elfomithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidamine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidamol nitracrine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitabronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. and doxetaxel TAXOTERE Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chlorambucil gemcitabine Gemzar 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine Navelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above. Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including Nolvadex raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and toremifene Fareston aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide megestrol acetate Megace exemestane formestane fadrozole vorozole Rivisor letrozole Femara and anastrozole Arimidex and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above. Any one or more of these agents may be conjugated to the humanized antibodies of the present invention to provide a useful therapeutic agent for the treatment of various disorders.

The antibodies also may be conjugated to prodrugs. A prodrug is a precursor or derivative form of a pharmaceutically active substance that is less cytotoxic to tumor cells compared to the parent drug and is capable of being enzymatically activated or converted into the more active form. See for example Wilman 1986 Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy In Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast and Stella et al. 1985 Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery In Directed Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press. Useful prodrugs include but are not limited to phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs and optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs that can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form include but are not limited to those chemotherapeutic agents described above.

For diagnostic as well as therapeutic monitoring purposes the antibodies of the invention also may be conjugated to a label either a label alone or a label and an additional second agent prodrug chemotherapeutic agent and the like . A label as distinguished from the other second agents refers to an agent that is a detectable compound or composition and it may be conjugated directly or indirectly to a humanized antibody of the present invention. The label may itself be detectable e.g. radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels or in the case of an enzymatic label may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or composition that is detectable. Labeled humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody can be prepared and used in various applications including in vitro and in vivo diagnostics.

The antibodies of the present invention may be formulated as part of a liposomal preparation in order to affect delivery thereof in vivo. A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant. Liposomes are useful for delivery to a mammal of a compound or formulation such as a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody disclosed herein optionally coupled to or in combination with one or more pharmaceutically active agents and or labels. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

Certain aspects of the present invention related to isolated nucleic acids that encode one or more domains of the humanized antibodies of the present invention. An isolated nucleic acid molecule is a nucleic acid molecule that is identified and separated from at least one contaminant nucleic acid molecule with which it is ordinarily associated in the natural source of the antibody nucleic acid. An isolated nucleic acid molecule is distinguished from the nucleic acid molecule as it exists in natural cells.

In various aspects of the present invention one or more domains of the humanized antibodies will be recombinantly expressed. Such recombinant expression may employ one or more control sequences i.e. polynucleotide sequences necessary for expression of an operably linked coding sequence in a particular host organism. The control sequences suitable for use in prokaryotic cells include for example promoter operator and ribosome binding site sequences. Eukaryotic control sequences include but are not limited to promoters polyadenylation signals and enhancers. These control sequences can be utilized for expression and production of humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody in prokaryotic and eukaryotic host cells.

A nucleic acid sequence is operably linked when it is placed into a functional relationship with another nucleic acid sequence. For example a nucleic acid presequence or secretory leader is operably linked to a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide if it is expressed as a preprotein that participates in the secretion of the polypeptide a promoter or enhancer is operably linked to a coding sequence if it affects the transcription of the sequence or a ribosome binding site is operably linked to a coding sequence if it is positioned so as to facilitate translation. Generally operably linked means that the DNA sequences being linked are contiguous and in the case of a secretory leader contiguous and in reading frame. However enhancers are optionally contiguous. Linking can be accomplished by ligation at convenient restriction sites. If such sites do not exist synthetic oligonucleotide adaptors or linkers can be used.

As used herein the expressions cell cell line and cell culture are used interchangeably and all such designations include the progeny thereof. Thus transformants and transformed cells include the primary subject cell and cultures derived therefrom without regard for the number of transfers.

The term mammal for purposes of treatment refers to any animal classified as a mammal including humans domesticated and farm animals and zoo sports or pet animals such as dogs horses cats cows and the like. Preferably the mammal is human.

A disorder as used herein is any condition that would benefit from treatment with a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody described herein. This includes chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those pathological conditions that predispose the mammal to the disorder in question. Non limiting examples or disorders to be treated herein include inflammatory angiogenic autoimmune and immunologic disorders respiratory disorders cancer hematological malignancies benign and malignant tumors leukemias and lymphoid malignancies.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia.

As used herein the term IL 23 associated disorder or IL 23 associated disease refers to a condition in which IL 23 activity contributes to the disease and typically where IL 23 is abnormally expressed. An IL 23 associated disorder includes diseases and disorders of the immune system such as autoimmune disorders and inflammatory disorders. Such conditions include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis RA systemic lupus erythematosus SLE scleroderma Sjogren s syndrome multiple sclerosis psoriasis psoriatic arthritis inflammatory bowel disease e.g. ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease pulmonary inflammation asthma idiopathic thrombocytopenic purara ITP and ankylosing spondylitis.

The term intravenous infusion refers to introduction of an agent into the vein of an animal or human patient over a period of time greater than approximately 15 minutes generally between approximately 30 to 90 minutes.

The term intravenous bolus or intravenous push refers to drug administration into a vein of an animal or human such that the body receives the drug in approximately 15 minutes or less generally 5 minutes or less.

The term subcutaneous administration refers to introduction of an agent under the skin of an animal or human patient preferable within a pocket between the skin and underlying tissue by relatively slow sustained delivery from a drug receptacle. Pinching or drawing the skin up and away from underlying tissue may create the pocket.

The term subcutaneous infusion refers to introduction of a drug under the skin of an animal or human patient preferably within a pocket between the skin and underlying tissue by relatively slow sustained delivery from a drug receptacle for a period of time including but not limited to 30 minutes or less or 90 minutes or less. Optionally the infusion may be made by subcutaneous implantation of a drug delivery pump implanted under the skin of the animal or human patient wherein the pump delivers a predetermined amount of drug for a predetermined period of time such as 30 minutes 90 minutes or a time period spanning the length of the treatment regimen.

The term subcutaneous bolus refers to drug administration beneath the skin of an animal or human patient where bolus drug delivery is less than approximately 15 minutes in another aspect less than 5 minutes and in still another aspect less than 60 seconds. In yet even another aspect administration is within a pocket between the skin and underlying tissue where the pocket may be created by pinching or drawing the skin up and away from underlying tissue.

The term therapeutically effective amount is used to refer to an amount of an active agent that relieves or ameliorates one or more of the symptoms of the disorder being treated. In another aspect the therapeutically effective amount refers to a target serum concentration that has been shown to be effective in for example slowing disease progression. Efficacy can be measured in conventional ways depending on the condition to be treated.

The terms treatment and therapy and the like as used herein are meant to include therapeutic as well as prophylactic or suppressive measures for a disease or disorder leading to any clinically desirable or beneficial effect including but not limited to alleviation or relief of one or more symptoms regression slowing or cessation of progression of the disease or disorder. Thus for example the term treatment includes the administration of an agent prior to or following the onset of a symptom of a disease or disorder thereby preventing or removing one or more signs of the disease or disorder. As another example the term includes the administration of an agent after clinical manifestation of the disease to combat the symptoms of the disease. Further administration of an agent after onset and after clinical symptoms have developed where administration affects clinical parameters of the disease or disorder such as the degree of tissue injury or the amount or extent of metastasis whether or not the treatment leads to amelioration of the disease comprises treatment or therapy as used herein. Moreover as long as the compositions of the invention either alone or in combination with another therapeutic agent alleviate or ameliorate at least one symptom of a disorder being treated as compared to that symptom in the absence of use of the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody composition the result should be considered an effective treatment of the underlying disorder regardless of whether all the symptoms of the disorder are alleviated or not.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

In one aspect described and disclosed herein are anti IL 23 antibodies in particular humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies and compositions and articles of manufacture comprising one or more anti IL 23 antibody in particular one or more humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention. Also described are binding agents that include an antigen binding fragment of an anti IL 23 antibody in particular a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody. The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies and binding agents can inhibit the production of Th17 associated cytokines which contribute to chronic autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies and binding agents can thus be used in the treatment of a variety of diseases or disorders. A humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody and an IL 23p19 binding agent each includes at least a portion that specifically recognizes an IL 23p19 epitope i.e. an antigen binding fragment .

In the initial characterization mouse antibodies were selected based on IL 23p19 binding characterization.

Accordingly in one aspect an antibody of the present invention has a Kfor IL 23 in particular human IL 23 of less than 100 pM. In another aspect an antibody of the present invention has a Kof less than 40 pM. In another aspect an antibody of the present invention has a Kof less than 20 pM. In another aspect an antibody of the present invention has a Kof less than 10 pM. In another aspect a monoclonal antibody of the present invention has a Kof less than 1 pM.

The selected mouse antibodies have the following light chain variable regions and heavy chain variable regions as shown in Table 1 and 2 

Human framework sequences were selected for each of the mouse leads based on the framework homology CDR structure conserved canonical residues conserved interface packing residues and other parameters.

The mouse light chain and heavy chain CDRs of the various mouse antibodies are shown in Table 3 and Table 4 respectively. Table 4 also shows three heavy chains CDRs derived from the mouse antibody 6B8 through the humanization process.

The CDRs listed above in Tables 3 and 4 are defined using the Chothia numbering system Al Lazikani et al. 1997 JMB 273 927 948 .

Fabs that showed better or equal binding as compared to the chimeric parent Fab were selected for conversion to IgG. 6B8 was converted to an IgG1KO format. IgG1KO knock out of effector functions has two mutations in the Fc region Leu234Ala and Leu235Ala which reduce effector function such as Fc R and complement binding. The IgG format is described in the literature see for example Hezareh et al. 2001 Journal of Virology 75 12161 12168 . Example 1 describes the humanization process in further detail. The results of such humanization resulted in humanized antibody sequences. A representative number of humanized light chain and heavy chain variable regions derived from mouse antibody 6B8 are provided and shown in Tables 5 and 6. An alignment between the humanized light chain and heavy chain variable regions derived from mouse antibody 6B8 and the chain and heavy chain variable regions from mouse antibody 6B8 is shown in .

Selected combination of humanized light chain and heavy chain variable regions derived from mouse antibody 6B8 resulted in Antibodies A B C and D 

Antibody A 6B8 IgG1KO 2 with IgK 66 heavy chain variable region 6B8CVH 02 and light chain variable region 6B8CVK 66 

Antibody B 6B8 IgG1KO 5 with IgK 66 heavy chain variable region 6B8CVH 05 and light chain variable region 6B8CVK 66 

Antibody C 6B8 IgG1KO 2 with IgK 65 heavy chain variable region 6B8CVH 02 and light chain variable region 6B8CVK 65 

Antibody D 6B8 IgG1KO 5 with IgK 65 heavy chain variable region 6B8CVH 05 and light chain variable region 6B8CVK 65 .

Light chains and heavy chain variable regions of Antibodies A B C and D are underlined in Table 7 above.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has at least one of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two or at least 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or 11 of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has all the properties below.

By no predicted activity in ADCC DC it is meant herein that a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has reduced affinity to Fc receptor and therefore is predicted not to have activity in ADCC CDC.

In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has at least one of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two or at least 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has all the properties below.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has at least one of the following binding properties properties A . In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two or at least 3 of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has all the properties below.

In particular a humanized antibody of the present invention has a Kfor human IL 23 1 pM no shift in binding on rate in 50 human serum and no binding to human IL 12.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has at least one of the following functional properties properties B . In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two or at least 3 of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has all the properties below.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has at least one of the following properties properties C . In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two or at least 3 of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has all the properties below.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has at least one of the following properties properties C . In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two of the properties below. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has all the properties below.

In a further aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention has at least one property A at least one property B and at least one property C. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention has any combination of at least two or at least 3 of the properties A B and C.

In some aspects the humanized antibody displays blocking activity whereby it decreases the binding of IL 23 to IL 23 receptor by at least 45 by at least 50 by at least 55 by at least 60 by at least 65 by at least 70 by at least 75 by at least 80 by at least 85 by at least 90 or by at least 95 . The ability of an antibody to block binding of IL 23 to the IL 23 receptor can be measured using competitive binding assays known in the art. Alternatively the blocking activity of an antibody can be measured by assessing the biological effects of IL 23 such as the production of IL 17 and IL 22 to determine if signaling mediated by the IL 23 receptor is inhibited.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody having favorable biophysical properties. In one aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention is present in at least 90 monomer form or in at least 92 monomer form or in at least 95 monomer form in a buffer. In a further aspect a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody of the present invention remains in at least 90 monomer form or in at least 92 monomer form or in at least 95 monomer form in a buffer for one month or for four months.

In one aspect a humanized antibody of the present invention is Antibody A Antibody B Antibody C or Antibody D. Accordingly in one embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention comprises the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 Antibody A . In another embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention comprises the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 178 Antibody B . In another embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention comprises the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 Antibody C . In another embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention comprises the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 178 Antibody D .

In a further embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention consists of the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 Antibody A . In a further embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention consists of the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 174 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 178 Antibody B . In a further embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention consists of the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 Antibody C . In a further embodiment a humanized antibody of the present invention consists of the light chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 180 and the heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 178 Antibody D .

In some embodiments the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies including antigen binding fragments thereof such as heavy and light chain variable regions comprise an amino acid sequence of the residues derived from Antibody A light chain sequence SEQ ID NO 174 heavy chain sequence SEQ ID NO 176 Antibody B light chain sequence SEQ ID NO 174 heavy chain sequence SEQ ID NO 178 Antibody C light chain sequence SEQ ID NO 180 heavy chain sequence SEQ ID NO 176 or Antibody D light chain sequence SEQ ID NO 180 heavy chain sequence SEQ ID NO 178 .

In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof that binds to human IL 23p19 at an epitope consisting of amino acid residues 108 to 126 and amino acid residues 137 to 151 of SEQ ID NO 181.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that competitively binds to human IL 23p19 with an antibody of the present invention for example Antibody A Antibody B Antibody C or Antibody D described herein. The ability of an antibody or antigen binding fragment to competitively bind to IL 23p19 can be measured using competitive binding assays known in the art.

The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies optionally include specific amino acid substitutions in the consensus or germline framework regions. The specific substitution of amino acid residues in these framework positions can improve various aspects of antibody performance including binding affinity and or stability over that demonstrated in humanized antibodies formed by direct swap of CDRs or HVLs into the human germline framework regions.

In some embodiments the present invention describes other monoclonal antibodies with a light chain variable region having the amino acid sequence set forth in of SEQ ID NO 84 86 88 90 91 93 95 97 99 101 103 105 107 109 111 113 115 117 or 119. In some embodiments the present invention describes other monoclonal antibodies with a heavy chain variable region having the amino acid sequence set forth in of SEQ ID NO 121 123 125 127 128 130 132 134 136 138 140 142 144 146 148 150 152 154 or 156 see Tables 1 and 2 above . The CDR sequence of these mouse antibodies are shown in Tables 3 and 4. Placing such CDRs into FRs of the human consensus heavy and light chain variable domains will yield useful humanized antibodies of the present invention.

In particular the present invention provides monoclonal antibodies with the combinations of light chain variable and heavy chain variable regions of SEQ ID NO 84 121 86 123 88 125 90 127 91 128 93 130 95 132 97 134 99 136 101 138 103 140 105 142 107 144 109 146 111 148 113 150 115 152 117 154 or 119 156. Such variable regions can be combined with human constant regions.

In some embodiments the present invention describes other humanized antibodies with light chain variable region sequences having the amino acid sequence set forth in of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 or 164. In some embodiments the present invention describes other humanized antibodies with heavy chain variable region sequences having the amino acid sequence set forth in of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 or 172 see Tables 5 and 6 above . The CDR sequences of these antibodies are shown in Tables 3 and 4. In particular the present invention provides monoclonal antibodies with the combinations of light chain variable and heavy chain variable regions of SEQ ID NO 160 166 160 168 158 166 or 158 168. Such variable regions can be combined with human constant regions.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 160 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 166 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 160 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 160 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 168 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 168. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 158 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 166 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody.

In a further embodiment the present invention relates to an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a humanized light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 158 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain light chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 158 and a humanized heavy chain variable domain comprising the CDRs of SEQ ID NO 168 and framework regions having an amino acid sequence at least 90 identical at least 93 identical or at least 95 identical to the amino acid sequence of the framework regions of the variable domain heavy chain amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 168. In one embodiment the anti IL 23p19 antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody.

In some specific embodiments the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies disclosed herein comprise at least a heavy or a light chain variable domain comprising the CDRs or HVLs of the murine monoclonal antibodies or humanized antibodies as shown in Tables 1 through 6 above and the FRs of the human germline heavy and light chain variable domains.

The CDRs of these sequences are shown in Tables 3 and 4. Accordingly in one aspect the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a light chain CDR1 L CDR1 sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 4 6 7 8 11 15 18 19 22 27 or 30 a light chain CDR2 L CDR2 sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 5 9 12 16 20 23 25 28 or 31 a light chain CDR3 L CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 10 13 14 17 21 24 26 29 or 32 a heavy chain CDR1 H CDR1 sequence of SEQ ID NO 33 36 38 40 43 45 48 51 54 57 60 63 66 67 68 69 77 or 80 a heavy chain CDR2 H CDR2 sequence of SEQ ID NO 34 39 41 46 49 52 55 58 61 64 70 72 73 75 78 or 81 and a heavy chain CDR3 H CDR3 sequence of SEQ ID NO 35 37 42 44 47 50 53 56 59 62 65 71 74 76 79 or 82. In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising a L CDR1 listed above a L CDR2 listed above and a L CDR3 listed above and a heavy chain variable region comprising a H CDR1 listed above a H CDR2 listed above and a H CDR3 listed above.

In a further aspect the present invention provides an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising 

In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprises a light chain variable region comprising a L CDR1 L CDR2 and L CDR3 combination listed above and a heavy chain variable region comprising a H CDR1 H CDR2 and H CDR3 combination listed above.

In specific embodiments it is contemplated that chimeric antibodies with switched CDR regions i.e. for example switching one or two CDRs of one of the mouse antibodies or humanized antibody derived therefrom with the analogous CDR from another mouse antibody or humanized antibody derived therefrom between these exemplary immunoglobulins may yield useful antibodies.

In certain embodiments the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody is an antibody fragment. Various antibody fragments have been generally discussed above and there are techniques that have been developed for the production of antibody fragments. Fragments can be derived via proteolytic digestion of intact antibodies see e.g. Morimoto et al. 1992 Journal of Biochemical and Biophysical Methods 24 107 117 and Brennan et al. 1985 Science 229 81 . Alternatively the fragments can be produced directly in recombinant host cells. For example Fab SH fragments can be directly recovered from and chemically coupled to form F ab fragments see e.g. Carter et al. 1992 Bio Technology 10 163 167 . By another approach F ab fragments can be isolated directly from recombinant host cell culture. Other techniques for the production of antibody fragments will be apparent to the skilled practitioner. Accordingly in one aspect the present invention provides antibody fragments comprising the CDRs described herein in particular one of the combinations of L CDR1 L CDR2 L CDR3 H CDR1 H CDR2 and H CDR3 described herein. In a further aspect the present invention provides antibody fragments comprising the variable regions described herein for example one of the combinations of light chain variable regions and heavy chain variable regions described herein.

Certain embodiments include an F ab fragment of a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody comprise a light chain sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 174 or 180 in combination with a heavy chain sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 or 178. Such embodiments can include an intact antibody comprising such an F ab .

In some embodiments the antibody or antibody fragment includes a constant region that mediates effector function. The constant region can provide antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis ADCP and or complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC responses against an IL 23 expressing target cell. The effector domain s can be for example an Fc region of an Ig molecule.

The effector domain of an antibody can be from any suitable vertebrate animal species and isotypes. The isotypes from different animal species differ in the abilities to mediate effector functions. For example the ability of human immunoglobulin to mediate CDC and ADCC ADCP is generally in the order of IgM IgG IgG IgG IgGand IgG IgG IgG IgM IgG respectively. Murine immunoglobulins mediate CDC and ADCC ADCP generally in the order of murine IgM IgG IgG IgG IgGand IgG IgG IgG IgG respectively. In another example murine IgGmediates ADCC while both murine IgGand IgM mediate CDC.

The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies and agents can include modifications of the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof. For example it may be desirable to modify the antibody with respect to effector function so as to enhance the effectiveness of the antibody in treating cancer. One such modification is the introduction of cysteine residue s into the Fc region thereby allowing interchain disulfide bond formation in this region. The homodimeric antibody thus generated can have improved internalization capability and or increased complement mediated cell killing and or antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC . See for example Caron et al. 1992 J. Exp Med. 176 1191 1195 and Shopes 1992 J. Immunol. 148 2918 2922. Homodimeric antibodies having enhanced anti tumor activity can also be prepared using heterobifunctional cross linkers as described in Wolff et al. 1993 Cancer Research 53 2560 2565. Alternatively an antibody can be engineered to contain dual Fc regions enhancing complement lysis and ADCC capabilities of the antibody. See Stevenson et al. 1989 Anti Cancer Drug Design 3 219 230.

Antibodies with improved ability to support ADCC have been generated by modifying the glycosylation pattern of their Fc region. This is possible since antibody glycosylation at the asparagine residue N297 in the Cdomain is involved in the interaction between IgG and Fc receptors prerequisite to ADCC. Host cell lines have been engineered to express antibodies with altered glycosylation such as increased bisecting N acetylglucosamine or reduced fucose. Fucose reduction provides greater enhancement to ADCC activity than does increasing the presence of bisecting N acetylglucosamine. Moreover enhancement of ADCC by low fucose antibodies is independent of the Fc RIIIa V F polymorphism.

Modifying the amino acid sequence of the Fc region of antibodies is an alternative to glycosylation engineering to enhance ADCC. The binding site on human IgGfor Fc receptors has been determined by extensive mutational analysis. This led to the generation of humanized IgGantibodies with Fc mutations that increase the binding affinity for Fc RIIIa and enhance ADCC in vitro. Additionally Fc variants have been obtained with many different permutations of binding properties e.g. improved binding to specific Fc R receptors with unchanged or diminished binding to other Fc R receptors.

Another aspect includes immunoconjugates comprising the humanized antibody or fragments thereof conjugated to a cytotoxic agent such as a chemotherapeutic agent a toxin e.g. an enzymatically active toxin of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin or fragments thereof or a radioactive isotope i.e. a radioconjugate .

Chemotherapeutic agents useful in the generation of such immunoconjugates have been described above. Enzymatically active toxins and fragments thereof that can be used to form useful immunoconjugates include diphtheria A chain nonbinding active fragments of diphtheria toxin exotoxin A chain from ricin A chain abrin A chain modeccin A chain alpha sarcin Aleurites fordii proteins dianthin proteins proteins PAPI PAPII and PAP S inhibitor curcin crotin Sapaonaria officinalis inhibitor gelonin mitogellin restrictocin phenomycin enomycin the tricothecenes and the like. A variety of radionuclides are available for the production of radioconjugated humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies. Examples include Bi I In Y and Re.

Conjugates of the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody and cytotoxic or chemotherapeutic agent can be made by known methods using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithiol propionate SPDP iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCL active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutareldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as toluene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . For example a ricin immunotoxin can be prepared as described in Vitetta et al. 1987 Science 238 1098. Carbon 14 labeled 1 isothiocyanatobenzyl 3 methyldiethylene triaminepentaacetic acid MX DTPA is an exemplary chelating agent for conjugation of radionucleotide to the antibody. Conjugates also can be formed with a cleavable linker.

The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies disclosed herein can also be formulated as immunoliposomes. Liposomes containing the antibody are prepared by methods known in the art such as described in Epstein et al. 1985 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82 3688 Hwang et al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4030 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 485 045 and 4 544 545. Liposomes having enhanced circulation time are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 013 556.

Particularly useful liposomes can be generated by the reverse phase evaporation method with a lipid composition comprising phosphatidylcholine cholesterol and PEG derivatized phosphatidylethanolamine PEG PE . Liposomes are extruded through filters of defined pore size to yield liposomes with the desired diameter. Fab fragments of an antibody disclosed herein can be conjugated to the liposomes as described in Martin et al. 1982 J. Biol. Chem. 257 286 288 via a disulfide interchange reaction. A chemotherapeutic agent such as doxorubicin is optionally contained within the liposome. See e.g. Gabizon et al. 1989 J. National Cancer Inst. 81 19 1484.

The antibodies described and disclosed herein can also be used in ADEPT Antibody Directed Enzyme Prodrug Therapy procedures by conjugating the antibody to a prodrug activating enzyme that converts a prodrug e.g. a peptidyl chemotherapeutic agent to an active anti cancer drug. See for example WO 81 01145 WO 88 07378 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 975 278. The enzyme component of the immunoconjugate useful for ADEPT is an enzyme capable of acting on a prodrug in such a way so as to covert it into its more active cytotoxic form. Specific enzymes that are useful in ADEPT include but are not limited to alkaline phosphatase for converting phosphate containing prodrugs into free drugs arylsulfatase for converting sulfate containing prodrugs into free drugs cytosine deaminase for converting non toxic 5 fluorocytosine into the anti cancer drug 5 fluorouracil proteases such as serratia protease thermolysin subtilisin carboxypeptidases and cathepsins such as cathepsins B and L for converting peptide containing prodrugs into free drugs D alanylcarboxypeptidases for converting prodrugs containing D amino acid substituents carbohydrate cleaving enzymes such as galactosidase and neuraminidase for converting glycosylated prodrugs into free drugs lactamase for converting drugs derivatized with lactams into free drugs and penicillin amidases such as penicillin V amidase or penicillin G amidase for converting drugs derivatized at their amine nitrogens with phenoxyacetyl or phenylacetyl groups respectively into free drugs. Alternatively antibodies having enzymatic activity abzymes can be used to convert the prodrugs into free active drugs see for example Massey 1987 Nature 328 457 458 . Antibody abzyme conjugates can be prepared by known methods for delivery of the abzyme to a tumor cell population for example by covalently binding the enzyme to the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody heterobifunctional crosslinking reagents discussed above. Alternatively fusion proteins comprising at least the antigen binding region of an antibody disclosed herein linked to at least a functionally active portion of an enzyme as described above can be constructed using recombinant DNA techniques see e.g. Neuberger et al. 1984 Nature 312 604 608 .

In certain embodiments it may be desirable to use a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody fragment rather than an intact antibody to increase tissue penetration for example. It may be desirable to modify the antibody fragment in order to increase its serum half life. This can be achieved for example by incorporation of a salvage receptor binding epitope into the antibody fragment. In one method the appropriate region of the antibody fragment can be altered e.g. mutated or the epitope can be incorporated into a peptide tag that is then fused to the antibody fragment at either end or in the middle for example by DNA or peptide synthesis. See e.g. WO 96 32478.

In other embodiments covalent modifications of the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody are also included. Covalent modifications include modification of cysteinyl residues histidyl residues lysinyl and amino terminal residues arginyl residues tyrosyl residues carboxyl side groups aspartyl or glutamyl glutaminyl and asparaginyl residues or seryl or threonyl residues. Another type of covalent modification involves chemically or enzymatically coupling glycosides to the antibody. Such modifications may be made by chemical synthesis or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of the antibody if applicable. Other types of covalent modifications of the antibody can be introduced into the molecule by reacting targeted amino acid residues of the antibody with an organic derivatizing agent that is capable of reacting with selected side chains or the amino or carboxy terminal residues.

Removal of any carbohydrate moieties present on the antibody can be accomplished chemically or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation is described by Hakimuddin et al. 1987 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 259 52 and by Edge et al. 1981 Anal. Biochem. 118 131. Enzymatic cleavage of carbohydrate moieties on antibodies can be achieved by the use of a variety of endo and exo glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. 1987 Meth. Enzymol 138 350.

Another type of useful covalent modification comprises linking the antibody to one of a variety of nonproteinaceous polymers e.g. polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol or polyoxyalkylenes in the manner set forth in one or more of U.S. Pat. No. 4 640 835 U.S. Pat. No. 4 496 689 U.S. Pat. No. 4 301 144 U.S. Pat. No. 4 670 417 U.S. Pat. No. 4 791 192 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 179 337.

Amino acid sequence variants of the anti IL 23p19 antibody can be prepared by introducing appropriate nucleotide changes into the anti IL 23p19 antibody DNA or by peptide synthesis. Such variants include for example deletions from and or insertions into and or substitutions of residues within the amino acid sequences of the anti IL 23p19 antibodies of the examples herein. Any combination of deletions insertions and substitutions is made to arrive at the final construct provided that the final construct possesses the desired characteristics. The amino acid changes also may alter post translational processes of the humanized or variant anti IL 23p19 antibody such as changing the number or position of glycosylation sites.

A useful method for identification of certain residues or regions of the anti IL 23p19 antibody that are preferred locations for mutagenesis is called alanine scanning mutagenesis as described by Cunningham and Wells Science 244 1081 1085 1989 . Here a residue or group of target residues are identified e.g. charged residues such as arg asp his lys and glu and replaced by a neutral or negatively charged amino acid typically alanine to affect the interaction of the amino acids with IL 23p19 antigen. Those amino acid locations demonstrating functional sensitivity to the substitutions then are refined by introducing further or other variants at or for the sites of substitution. Thus while the site for introducing an amino acid sequence variation is predetermined the nature of the mutation per se need not be predetermined. For example to analyze the performance of a mutation at a given site alanine scanning or random mutagenesis is conducted at the target codon or region and the expressed anti IL 23p19 antibody variants are screened for the desired activity.

Amino acid sequence insertions include amino and or carboxyl terminal fusions ranging in length from one residue to polypeptides containing a hundred or more residues as well as intrasequence insertions of single or multiple amino acid residues. Examples of terminal insertions include an anti IL 23p19 antibody fused to an epitope tag. Other insertional variants of the anti IL 23p19 antibody molecule include a fusion to the N or C terminus of the anti IL 23p19 antibody of an enzyme or a polypeptide which increases the serum half life of the antibody.

Another type of variant is an amino acid substitution variant. These variants have at least one amino acid residue in the anti IL 23p19 antibody molecule removed and a different residue inserted in its place. The sites of greatest interest for substitutional mutagenesis include the hypervariable regions but FR alterations are also contemplated. Conservative substitutions are shown in Table 5 under the heading of preferred substitutions . If such substitutions result in a change in biological activity then more substantial changes denominated exemplary substitutions or as further described below in reference to amino acid classes may be introduced and the products screened.

In protein chemistry it is generally accepted that the biological properties of the antibody can be accomplished by selecting substitutions that differ significantly in their effect on maintaining a the structure of the polypeptide backbone in the area of the substitution for example as a sheet or helical conformation b the charge or hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site or c the bulk of the side chain. Naturally occurring residues are divided into groups based on common side chain properties 

Non conservative substitutions will entail exchanging a member of one of these classes for another class.

Any cysteine residue not involved in maintaining the proper conformation of the humanized or variant anti IL 23p19 antibody also may be substituted generally with serine to improve the oxidative stability of the molecule prevent aberrant crosslinking or provide for established points of conjugation to a cytotoxic or cytostatic compound. Conversely cysteine bond s may be added to the antibody to improve its stability particularly where the antibody is an antibody fragment such as an Fv fragment .

A type of substitutional variant involves substituting one or more hypervariable region residues of a parent antibody e.g. a humanized or human antibody . Generally the resulting variant s selected for further development will have improved biological properties relative to the parent antibody from which they are generated. A convenient way for generating such substitutional variants is affinity maturation using phage display. Briefly several hypervariable region sites e.g. 6 7 sites are mutated to generate all possible amino substitutions at each site. The antibody variants thus generated are displayed in a monovalent fashion from filamentous phage particles as fusions to the gene III product of M13 packaged within each particle. The phage displayed variants are then screened for their biological activity e.g. binding affinity . In order to identify candidate hypervariable region sites for modification alanine scanning mutagenesis can be performed to identify hypervariable region residues contributing significantly to antigen binding. Alternatively or in addition it may be beneficial to analyze a crystal structure of the antigen antibody complex to identify contact points between the antibody and human IL 23p19. Such contact residues and neighboring residues are candidates for substitution according to the techniques elaborated herein. Once such variants are generated the panel of variants is subjected to screening as described herein and antibodies with superior properties in one or more relevant assays may be selected for further development.

Another type of amino acid variant of the antibody alters the original glycosylation pattern of the antibody. By altering is meant deleting one or more carbohydrate moieties found in the antibody and or adding one or more glycosylation sites that are not present in the antibody.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to modify the antibodies of the invention to add glycosylations sites. Glycosylation of antibodies is typically either N linked or O linked. N linked refers to the attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tripeptide sequences asparagine X serine and asparagine X threonine where X is any amino acid except proline are the recognition sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the asparagine side chain. Thus the presence of either of these tripeptide sequences in a polypeptide creates a potential glycosylation site. O linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the sugars N aceylgalactosamine galactose or xylose to a hydroxyamino acid most commonly serine or threonine although 5 hydroxyproline or 5 hydroxylysine may also be used. Thus in order to glycosylate a given protein e.g. an antibody the amino acid sequence of the protein is engineered to contain one or more of the above described tripeptide sequences for N linked glycosylation sites . The alteration may also be made by the addition of or substitution by one or more serine or threonine residues to the sequence of the original antibody for O linked glycosylation sites .

Nucleic acid molecules encoding amino acid sequence variants of the anti IL 23p19 antibody are prepared by a variety of methods known in the art. These methods include but are not limited to isolation from a natural source in the case of naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants or preparation by oligonucleotide mediated or site directed mutagenesis PCR mutagenesis and cassette mutagenesis of an earlier prepared variant or a non variant version of the anti IL 23p19 antibody.

Other embodiments encompass isolated polynucleotides that comprise a sequence encoding a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody vectors and host cells comprising the polynucleotides and recombinant techniques for production of the humanized antibody. The isolated polynucleotides can encode any desired form of the anti IL 23p19 antibody including for example full length monoclonal antibodies Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides comprising sequences that encode the light chain variable region of an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO SEQ ID NO 84 86 88 90 91 93 95 97 99 101 103 105 107 109 111 113 115 117 or 119. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 83 85 87 89 92 94 96 98 100 102 104 106 108 110 112 114 116 and 118. Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides comprising sequences that encode the heavy chain variable region of an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 121 123 125 127 128 130 132 134 136 138 140 142 144 146 148 150 152 154 or 156. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 120 122 124 126 129 131 133 135 137 139 141 143 145 147 149 151 153 or 155.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides comprising sequences that encode the light chain variable region of an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 or 164. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 157 159 161 or 163. Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides comprising sequences that encode the heavy chain variable region of an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 or 172. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 165 167 169 or 171.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides comprising sequences that encode the light chain of an antibody having the amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 174 or 180. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 173 or 179. Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides comprising sequences that encode the heavy chain of an antibody having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 176 or 178. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 175 or 177.

In one aspect the isolated polynucleotide sequence s encodes an antibody or antibody fragment having a light chain and a heavy chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NO 174 and SEQ ID NO 176 respectively SEQ ID NO 174 and SEQ ID NO 178 respectively SEQ ID NO 180 and SEQ ID NO 176 respectively SEQ ID NO 180 and SEQ ID NO 178 respectively. Exemplary polynucleotide sequences encoding such amino acid sequences are SEQ ID NO 173 and 175 respectively SEQ ID NO 173 and 177 respectively SEQ ID NO 179 and 175 respectively SEQ ID NO 179 and 177 respectively.

The polynucleotide s that comprise a sequence encoding a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody or a fragment or chain thereof can be fused to one or more regulatory or control sequence as known in the art and can be contained in suitable expression vectors or host cell as known in the art. Each of the polynucleotide molecules encoding the heavy or light chain variable domains can be independently fused to a polynucleotide sequence encoding a constant domain such as a human constant domain enabling the production of intact antibodies. Alternatively polynucleotides or portions thereof can be fused together providing a template for production of a single chain antibody.

For recombinant production a polynucleotide encoding the antibody is inserted into a replicable vector for cloning amplification of the DNA or for expression. Many suitable vectors for expressing the recombinant antibody are available. The vector components generally include but are not limited to one or more of the following a signal sequence an origin of replication one or more marker genes an enhancer element a promoter and a transcription termination sequence.

The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies can also be produced as fusion polypeptides in which the antibody is fused with a heterologous polypeptide such as a signal sequence or other polypeptide having a specific cleavage site at the amino terminus of the mature protein or polypeptide. The heterologous signal sequence selected is typically one that is recognized and processed i.e. cleaved by a signal peptidase by the host cell. For prokaryotic host cells that do not recognize and process the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody signal sequence the signal sequence can be substituted by a prokaryotic signal sequence. The signal sequence can be for example alkaline phosphatase penicillinase lipoprotein heat stable enterotoxin II leaders and the like. For yeast secretion the native signal sequence can be substituted for example with a leader sequence obtained from yeast invertase alpha factor including and factor leaders acid phosphatase glucoamylase or the signal described in WO90 13646. In mammalian cells mammalian signal sequences as well as viral secretory leaders for example the herpes simplex gD signal can be used. The DNA for such precursor region is ligated in reading frame to DNA encoding the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody.

Expression and cloning vectors contain a nucleic acid sequence that enables the vector to replicate in one or more selected host cells. Generally in cloning vectors this sequence is one that enables the vector to replicate independently of the host chromosomal DNA and includes origins of replication or autonomously replicating sequences. Such sequences are well known for a variety of bacteria yeast and viruses. The origin of replication from the plasmid pBR322 is suitable for most Gram negative bacteria the 2 . plasmid origin is suitable for yeast and various viral origins SV40 polyoma adenovirus VSV and BPV are useful for cloning vectors in mammalian cells. Generally the origin of replication component is not needed for mammalian expression vectors the SV40 origin may typically be used only because it contains the early promoter .

Expression and cloning vectors may contain a gene that encodes a selectable marker to facilitate identification of expression. Typical selectable marker genes encode proteins that confer resistance to antibiotics or other toxins e.g. ampicillin neomycin methotrexate or tetracycline or alternatively are complement auxotrophic deficiencies or in other alternatives supply specific nutrients that are not present in complex media e.g. the gene encoding D alanine racemase for Bacilli.

One example of a selection scheme utilizes a drug to arrest growth of a host cell. Those cells that are successfully transformed with a heterologous gene produce a protein conferring drug resistance and thus survive the selection regimen. Examples of such dominant selection use the drugs neomycin mycophenolic acid and hygromycin. Common selectable markers for mammalian cells are those that enable the identification of cells competent to take up a nucleic acid encoding a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody such as DHFR dihydrofolate reductase thymidine kinase metallothionein I and II such as primate metallothionein genes adenosine deaminase ornithine decarboxylase and the like. Cells transformed with the DHFR selection gene are first identified by culturing all of the transformants in a culture medium that contains methotrexate Mtx a competitive antagonist of DHFR. An appropriate host cell when wild type DHFR is employed is the Chinese hamster ovary CHO cell line deficient in DHFR activity e.g. DG44 .

Alternatively host cells particularly wild type hosts that contain endogenous DHFR transformed or co transformed with DNA sequences encoding anti IL 23p19 antibody wild type DHFR protein and another selectable marker such as aminoglycoside 3 phosphotransferase APH can be selected by cell growth in medium containing a selection agent for the selectable marker such as an aminoglycosidic antibiotic e.g. kanamycin neomycin or G418. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 965 199.

Where the recombinant production is performed in a yeast cell as a host cell the TRP1 gene present in the yeast plasmid YRp7 Stinchcomb et al. 1979 Nature 282 39 can be used as a selectable marker. The TRP1 gene provides a selection marker for a mutant strain of yeast lacking the ability to grow in tryptophan for example ATCC No. 44076 or PEP4 1 Jones 1977 Genetics 85 12 . The presence of the trp1 lesion in the yeast host cell genome then provides an effective environment for detecting transformation by growth in the absence of tryptophan. Similarly Leu2p deficient yeast strains such as ATCC 20 622 and 38 626 are complemented by known plasmids bearing the LEU2 gene.

In addition vectors derived from the 1.6 m circular plasmid pKD1 can be used for transformation of yeasts. Alternatively an expression system for large scale production of recombinant calf chymosin was reported for Van den Berg 1990 Bio Technology 8 135 . Stable multi copy expression vectors for secretion of mature recombinant human serum albumin by industrial strains of have also been disclosed Fleer et al. 1991 Bio Technology 9 968 975 .

Expression and cloning vectors usually contain a promoter that is recognized by the host organism and is operably linked to the nucleic acid molecule encoding an anti IL 23p19 antibody or polypeptide chain thereof. Promoters suitable for use with prokaryotic hosts include phoA promoter lactamase and lactose promoter systems alkaline phosphatase tryptophan trp promoter system and hybrid promoters such as the tac promoter. Other known bacterial promoters are also suitable. Promoters for use in bacterial systems also will contain a Shine Dalgarno S.D. sequence operably linked to the DNA encoding the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody.

Many eukaryotic promoter sequences are known. Virtually all eukaryotic genes have an AT rich region located approximately 25 to 30 bases upstream from the site where transcription is initiated. Another sequence found 70 to 80 bases upstream from the start of transcription of many genes is a CNCAAT region where N may be any nucleotide. At the 3 end of most eukaryotic genes is an AATAAA sequence that may be the signal for addition of the poly A tail to the 3 end of the coding sequence. All of these sequences are suitably inserted into eukaryotic expression vectors.

Examples of suitable promoting sequences for use with yeast hosts include the promoters for 3 phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes such as enolase glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase hexokinase pyruvate decarboxylase phosphofructokinase glucose 6 phosphate isomerase 3 phosphoglycerate mutase pyruvate kinase triosephosphate isomerase phosphoglucose isomerase and glucokinase.

Inducible promoters have the additional advantage of transcription controlled by growth conditions. These include yeast promoter regions for alcohol dehydrogenase 2 isocytochrome C acid phosphatase derivative enzymes associated with nitrogen metabolism metallothionein glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase and enzymes responsible for maltose and galactose utilization. Suitable vectors and promoters for use in yeast expression are further described in EP 73 657. Yeast enhancers also are advantageously used with yeast promoters.

Humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody transcription from vectors in mammalian host cells is controlled for example by promoters obtained from the genomes of viruses such as polyoma virus fowlpox virus adenovirus such as Adenovirus 2 bovine papilloma virus avian sarcoma virus cytomegalovirus a retrovirus hepatitis B virus and Simian Virus 40 SV40 from heterologous mammalian promoters e.g. the actin promoter or an immunoglobulin promoter or from heat shock promoters provided such promoters are compatible with the host cell systems.

The early and late promoters of the SV40 virus are conveniently obtained as an SV40 restriction fragment that also contains the SV40 viral origin of replication. The immediate early promoter of the human cytomegalovirus is conveniently obtained as a HindIII E restriction fragment. A system for expressing DNA in mammalian hosts using the bovine papilloma virus as a vector is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 419 446. A modification of this system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 601 978. See also Reyes et al. 1982 Nature 297 598 601 disclosing expression of human p interferon cDNA in mouse cells under the control of a thymidine kinase promoter from herpes simplex virus. Alternatively the Rous sarcoma virus long terminal repeat can be used as the promoter.

Another useful element that can be used in a recombinant expression vector is an enhancer sequence which is used to increase the transcription of a DNA encoding a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody by higher eukaryotes. Many enhancer sequences are now known from mammalian genes e.g. globin elastase albumin fetoprotein and insulin . Typically however an enhancer from a eukaryotic cell virus is used. Examples include the SV40 enhancer on the late side of the replication origin bp 100 270 the cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer the polyoma enhancer on the late side of the replication origin and adenovirus enhancers. See also Yaniv 1982 Nature 297 17 18 for a description of enhancing elements for activation of eukaryotic promoters. The enhancer may be spliced into the vector at a position 5 or 3 to the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody encoding sequence but is preferably located at a site 5 from the promoter.

Expression vectors used in eukaryotic host cells yeast fungi insect plant animal human or nucleated cells from other multicellular organisms can also contain sequences necessary for the termination of transcription and for stabilizing the mRNA. Such sequences are commonly available from the 5 and occasionally 3 untranslated regions of eukaryotic or viral DNAs or cDNAs. These regions contain nucleotide segments transcribed as polyadenylated fragments in the untranslated portion of the mRNA encoding anti IL 23p19 antibody. One useful transcription termination component is the bovine growth hormone polyadenylation region. See WO94 11026 and the expression vector disclosed therein. In some embodiments humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies can be expressed using the CHEF system. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 888 809 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. 

Suitable host cells for cloning or expressing the DNA in the vectors herein are the prokaryote yeast or higher eukaryote cells described above. Suitable prokaryotes for this purpose include eubacteria such as Gram negative or Gram positive organisms for example Enterobacteriaceae such as e.g. e.g. e.g. and as well as Bacilli such as and e.g. 41 P disclosed in DD 266 710 published Apr. 12 1989 such as and . One preferred cloning host is 294 ATCC 31 446 although other strains such as B X1776 ATCC 31 537 and W3110 ATCC 27 325 are suitable. These examples are illustrative rather than limiting.

In addition to prokaryotes eukaryotic microbes such as filamentous fungi or yeast are suitable cloning or expression hosts for humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody encoding vectors. or common baker s yeast is the most commonly used among lower eukaryotic host microorganisms. However a number of other genera species and strains are commonly available and useful herein such as hosts such as e.g. ATCC 12 424 ATCC 16 045 ATCC 24 178 ATCC 56 500 ATCC 36 906 and EP 402 226 pastors EP 183 070 EP 244 234 such as and filamentous fungi such as e.g. and hosts such as and

Suitable host cells for the expression of glycosylated humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody are derived from multicellular organisms. Examples of invertebrate cells include plant and insect cells including e.g. numerous baculoviral strains and variants and corresponding permissive insect host cells from hosts such as caterpillar mosquito mosquito fruitfly and silk worm . A variety of viral strains for transfection are publicly available e.g. the L 1 variant of NPV and the Bm 5 strain of NPV and such viruses may be used particularly for transfection of cells.

Plant cell cultures of cotton corn potato soybean petunia tomato and tobacco can also be utilized as hosts.

In another aspect expression of humanized anti IL 23p19 is carried out in vertebrate cells. The propagation of vertebrate cells in culture tissue culture has become routine procedure and techniques are widely available. Examples of useful mammalian host cell lines are monkey kidney CV1 line transformed by SV40 COS 7 ATCC CRL 1651 human embryonic kidney line 293 or 293 cells subcloned for growth in suspension culture Graham et al. 1977 J. Gen Virol. 36 59 baby hamster kidney cells BHK ATCC CCL 10 Chinese hamster ovary cells DHFR1 CHO Urlaub et al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4216 e.g. DG44 mouse sertoli cells TM4 Mather 1980 Biol. Reprod. 23 243 251 monkey kidney cells CV1 ATCC CCL 70 African green monkey kidney cells VERO 76 ATCC CRL 1587 human cervical carcinoma cells HELA ATCC CCL 2 canine kidney cells MDCK ATCC CCL 34 buffalo rat liver cells BRL 3A ATCC CRL 1442 human lung cells W138 ATCC CCL 75 human liver cells Hep G2 HB 8065 mouse mammary tumor MMT 060562 ATCC CCL51 TR1 cells Mather et al. 1982 Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 383 44 68 MRC 5 cells FS4 cells and human hepatoma line Hep G2 .

Host cells are transformed with the above described expression or cloning vectors for humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody production and cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for inducing promoters selecting transformants or amplifying the genes encoding the desired sequences.

The host cells used to produce a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody described herein may be cultured in a variety of media. Commercially available media such as Ham s F10 Sigma Aldrich Co. St. Louis Mo. Minimal Essential Medium MEM Sigma Aldrich Co. RPMI 1640 Sigma Aldrich Co. and Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s Medium DMEM Sigma Aldrich Co. are suitable for culturing the host cells. In addition any of the media described in one or more of Ham et al. 1979 Meth. Enz. 58 44 Barnes et al. 1980 Anal. Biochem. 102 255 U.S. Pat. No. 4 767 704 U.S. Pat. No. 4 657 866 U.S. Pat. No. 4 927 762 U.S. Pat. No. 4 560 655 U.S. Pat. No. 5 122 469 WO 90 103430 and WO 87 00195 may be used as culture media for the host cells. Any of these media may be supplemented as necessary with hormones and or other growth factors such as insulin transferrin or epidermal growth factor salts such as sodium chloride calcium magnesium and phosphate buffers such as HEPES nucleotides such as adenosine and thymidine antibiotics such as gentamicin trace elements defined as inorganic compounds usually present at final concentrations in the micromolar range and glucose or an equivalent energy source. Other supplements may also be included at appropriate concentrations that would be known to those skilled in the art. The culture conditions such as temperature pH and the like are those previously used with the host cell selected for expression and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.

When using recombinant techniques the antibody can be produced intracellularly in the periplasmic space or directly secreted into the medium. If the antibody is produced intracellularly the cells may be disrupted to release protein as a first step. Particulate debris either host cells or lysed fragments can be removed for example by centrifugation or ultrafiltration. Carter et al. 1992 Bio Technology 10 163 167 describes a procedure for isolating antibodies that are secreted to the periplasmic space of . Briefly cell paste is thawed in the presence of sodium acetate pH 3.5 EDTA and phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride PMSF over about 30 minutes. Cell debris can be removed by centrifugation. Where the antibody is secreted into the medium supernatants from such expression systems are generally first concentrated using a commercially available protein concentration filter for example an Amicon or Millipore Pellicon ultrafiltration unit. A protease inhibitor such as PMSF may be included in any of the foregoing steps to inhibit proteolysis and antibiotics may be included to prevent the growth of adventitious contaminants. A variety of methods can be used to isolate the antibody from the host cell.

The antibody composition prepared from the cells can be purified using for example hydroxylapatite chromatography gel electrophoresis dialysis and affinity chromatography with affinity chromatography being a typical purification technique. The suitability of protein A as an affinity ligand depends on the species and isotype of any immunoglobulin Fc domain that is present in the antibody. Protein A can be used to purify antibodies that are based on human gamma1 gamma2 or gamma4 heavy chains see e.g. Lindmark et al. 1983 J. Immunol. Meth. 62 1 13 . Protein G is recommended for all mouse isotypes and for human gamma3 see e.g. Guss et al. 1986 EMBO J. 5 1567 1575 . A matrix to which an affinity ligand is attached is most often agarose but other matrices are available. Mechanically stable matrices such as controlled pore glass or poly styrenedivinyl benzene allow for faster flow rates and shorter processing times than can be achieved with agarose. Where the antibody comprises a Cdomain the Bakerbond ABX resin J. T. Baker Phillipsburg N.J. is useful for purification. Other techniques for protein purification such as fractionation on an ion exchange column ethanol precipitation reverse phase HPLC chromatography on silica chromatography on heparin SEPHAROSE chromatography on an anion or cation exchange resin such as a polyaspartic acid column chromatofocusing SDS PAGE and ammonium sulfate precipitation are also available depending on the antibody to be recovered.

Following any preliminary purification step s the mixture comprising the antibody of interest and contaminants may be subjected to low pH hydrophobic interaction chromatography using an elution buffer at a pH between about 2.5 4.5 typically performed at low salt concentrations e.g. from about 0 0.25M salt .

Also included are nucleic acids that hybridize under low moderate and high stringency conditions as defined herein to all or a portion e.g. the portion encoding the variable region of the nucleotide sequence represented by isolated polynucleotide sequence s that encode an antibody or antibody fragment of the present invention. The hybridizing portion of the hybridizing nucleic acid is typically at least 15 e.g. 20 25 30 or 50 nucleotides in length. The hybridizing portion of the hybridizing nucleic acid is at least 80 e.g. at least 90 at least 95 or at least 98 identical to the sequence of a portion or all of a nucleic acid encoding an anti IL 23p19 polypeptide e.g. a heavy chain or light chain variable region or its complement. Hybridizing nucleic acids of the type described herein can be used for example as a cloning probe a primer e.g. a PCR primer or a diagnostic probe.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 84 86 88 90 91 93 95 97 99 101 103 105 107 109 111 113 115 117 or 119 and that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the polynucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO 83 85 87 89 92 94 96 98 100 102 104 106 108 110 112 114 116 or 118.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 or 164 and that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the polynucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO 157 159 161 or 163.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 121 123 125 127 128 130 132 134 136 138 140 142 144 146 148 150 152 154 or 156 and that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the polynucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO 120 122 124 126 129 131 133 135 137 139 141 143 145 147 149 151 153 or 155.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 or 172 and that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the polynucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO 165 167 169 or 171.

Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the light chain variable region amino acid sequence that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 84 86 88 90 91 93 95 97 99 101 103 105 107 109 111 113 115 117 or 119. Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the light chain variable region amino acid sequence that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 or 164. Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NO 121 123 125 127 128 130 132 134 136 138 140 142 144 146 148 150 152 154 or 156. Some embodiments include isolated polynucleotides including sequences that encode an antibody or antibody fragment having the heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence that is at least 80 at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to the amino acid sequence of any of one SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 or 172. As used herein the terms identical or percent identity in the context of two or more nucleic acids or polypeptide sequences refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that are the same or have a specified percentage of nucleotides or amino acid residues that are the same when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence. To determine the percent identity the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes e.g. gaps can be introduced in the sequence of a first amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment with a second amino or nucleic acid sequence . The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence then the molecules are identical at that position. The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences i.e. identity of identical positions total of positions e.g. overlapping positions 100 . In some embodiments the two sequences that are compared are the same length after gaps are introduced within the sequences as appropriate e.g. excluding additional sequence extending beyond the sequences being compared . For example when variable region sequences are compared the leader and or constant domain sequences are not considered. For sequence comparisons between two sequences a corresponding CDR refers to a CDR in the same location in both sequences e.g. CDR H1 of each sequence .

The determination of percent identity or percent similarity between two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. A preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul 1990 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87 2264 2268 modified as in Karlin and Altschul 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 5873 5877. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and XBLAST programs of Altschul et al. 1990 J. Mol. Biol. 215 403 410. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to a nucleic acid encoding a protein of interest. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program score 50 wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to protein of interest. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 1997 Nucleic Acids Res. 25 3389 3402. Alternatively PSI Blast can be used to perform an iterated search which detects distant relationships between molecules Id. . When utilizing BLAST Gapped BLAST and PSI Blast programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. XBLAST and NBLAST can be used. Another preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of sequences is the algorithm of Myers and Miller CABIOS 1989 . Such an algorithm is incorporated into the ALIGN program version 2.0 which is part of the GCG sequence alignment software package. When utilizing the ALIGN program for comparing amino acid sequences a PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4 can be used. Additional algorithms for sequence analysis are known in the art and include ADVANCE and ADAM as described in Torellis and Robotti 1994 Comput. Appl. Biosci. 10 3 5 and FASTA described in Pearson and Lipman 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 2444 8. Within FASTA ktup is a control option that sets the sensitivity and speed of the search. If ktup 2 similar regions in the two sequences being compared are found by looking at pairs of aligned residues if ktup 1 single aligned amino acids are examined. ktup can be set to 2 or 1 for protein sequences or from 1 to 6 for DNA sequences. The default if ktup is not specified is 2 for proteins and 6 for DNA. Alternatively protein sequence alignment may be carried out using the CLUSTAL W algorithm as described by Higgins et al. 1996 Methods Enzymol. 266 383 402.

The antibodies described herein are useful as affinity purification agents. In this process the antibodies are immobilized on a solid phase such a Protein A resin using methods well known in the art. The immobilized antibody is contacted with a sample containing the IL 23p19 protein or fragment thereof to be purified and thereafter the support is washed with a suitable solvent that will remove substantially all the material in the sample except the IL 2319 protein which is bound to the immobilized antibody. Finally the support is washed with another suitable solvent that will release the IL 23p19 protein from the antibody.

Anti IL 23p19 antibodies for example humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies are also useful in diagnostic assays to detect and or quantify IL 23 protein for example detecting IL 23 expression in specific cells tissues or serum. The anti IL 23p19 antibodies can be used diagnostically to for example monitor the development or progression of a disease as part of a clinical testing procedure to e.g. determine the efficacy of a given treatment and or prevention regimen. Detection can be facilitated by coupling the anti IL 23p19 antibody. Examples of detectable substances include various enzymes prosthetic groups fluorescent materials luminescent materials bioluminescent materials radioactive materials positron emitting metals using various positron emission tomographies and nonradioactive paramagnetic metal ions. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 741 900 for metal ions which can be conjugated to antibodies for use as diagnostics according to the present invention.

The anti IL 23p19 antibodies can be used in methods for diagnosing an IL 23 associated disorder e.g. a disorder characterized by abnormal expression of IL 23 or to determine if a subject has an increased risk of developing an IL 23 associated disorder. Such methods include contacting a biological sample from a subject with an IL 23p19 antibody and detecting binding of the antibody to IL 23p19. By biological sample is intended any biological sample obtained from an individual cell line tissue culture or other source of cells potentially expressing IL 23. Methods for obtaining tissue biopsies and body fluids from mammals are well known in the art.

In some embodiments the method can further comprise comparing the level of IL 23 in a patient sample to a control sample e.g. a subject that does not have an IL 23 associated disorder to determine if the patient has an IL 23 associated disorder or is at risk of developing an IL 23 associated disorder.

It will be advantageous in some embodiments for example for diagnostic purposes to label the antibody with a detectable moiety. Numerous detectable labels are available including radioisotopes fluorescent labels enzyme substrate labels and the like. The label may be indirectly conjugated with the antibody using various known techniques. For example the antibody can be conjugated with biotin and any of the three broad categories of labels mentioned above can be conjugated with avidin or vice versa. Biotin binds selectively to avidin and thus the label can be conjugated with the antibody in this indirect manner. Alternatively to achieve indirect conjugation of the label with the antibody the antibody can be conjugated with a small hapten such as digoxin and one of the different types of labels mentioned above is conjugated with an anti hapten antibody e.g. anti digoxin antibody . Thus indirect conjugation of the label with the antibody can be achieved.

Exemplary radioisotopes labels include S C I H and I. The antibody can be labeled with the radioisotope using the techniques described in for example Current Protocols in Immunology Volumes 1 and 2 1991 Coligen et al. Ed. Wiley Interscience New York N.Y. Pubs. Radioactivity can be measured for example by scintillation counting.

Exemplary fluorescent labels include labels derived from rare earth chelates europium chelates or fluorescein and its derivatives rhodamine and its derivatives dansyl Lissamine phycoerythrin and Texas Red are available. The fluorescent labels can be conjugated to the antibody via known techniques such as those disclosed in Current Protocols in Immunology for example. Fluorescence can be quantified using a fluorimeter.

There are various well characterized enzyme substrate labels known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 275 149 for a review . The enzyme generally catalyzes a chemical alteration of the chromogenic substrate that can be measured using various techniques. For example alteration may be a color change in a substrate that can be measured spectrophotometrically. Alternatively the enzyme may alter the fluorescence or chemiluminescence of the substrate. Techniques for quantifying a change in fluorescence are described above. The chemiluminescent substrate becomes electronically excited by a chemical reaction and may then emit light that can be measured using a chemiluminometer for example or donates energy to a fluorescent acceptor.

Examples of enzymatic labels include luciferases such as firefly luciferase and bacterial luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 4 737 456 luciferin 2 3 dihydrophthalazinediones malate dehydrogenase urease peroxidase such as horseradish peroxidase HRPO alkaline phosphatase galactosidase glucoamylase lysozyme saccharide oxidases such as glucose oxidase galactose oxidase and glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase heterocydic oxidases such as uricase and xanthine oxidase lactoperoxidase microperoxidase and the like. Techniques for conjugating enzymes to antibodies are described for example in O Sullivan et al. 1981 Methods for the Preparation of Enzyme Antibody Conjugates for use in Enzyme Immunoassay in Methods in Enzym. J. Langone H. Van Vunakis eds. Academic press N.Y. 73 147 166.

Examples of enzyme substrate combinations include for example Horseradish peroxidase HRPO with hydrogen peroxidase as a substrate wherein the hydrogen peroxidase oxidizes a dye precursor such as orthophenylene diamine OPD or 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl benzidine hydrochloride TMB alkaline phosphatase AP with para Nitrophenyl phosphate as chromogenic substrate and D galactosidase D Gal with a chromogenic substrate such as p nitrophenyl D galactosidase or fluorogenic substrate 4 methylumbelliferyl D galactosidase.

Numerous other enzyme substrate combinations are available to those skilled in the art. For a general review of these see U.S. Pat. No. 4 275 149 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 318 980.

In another embodiment the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody is used unlabeled and detected with a labeled antibody that binds the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody.

The antibodies described herein may be employed in any known assay method such as competitive binding assays direct and indirect sandwich assays and immunoprecipitation assays. See e.g. Zola Monoclonal Antibodies A Manual of Techniques pp. 147 158 CRC Press Inc. 1987 .

The anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof can be used to inhibit the binding of IL 23 to the IL 23 receptor. Such methods comprise administering an anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof to a cell e.g. a mammalian cell or cellular environment whereby signaling mediated by the IL 23 receptor is inhibited. These methods can be performed in vitro or in vivo. By cellular environment is intended the tissue medium or extracellular matrix surrounding a cell. The anti IL 23p19 antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof is administered to the cellular environment of a cell in such a manner that the antibody or fragment is capable of binding to IL 23 molecules outside of and surrounding the cell therefore preventing the binding of IL 23 to its receptor.

An anti IL 23p19 antibody can be used in a diagnostic kit i.e. a packaged combination of reagents in predetermined amounts with instructions for performing the diagnostic assay. Where the antibody is labeled with an enzyme the kit may include substrates and cofactors required by the enzyme such as a substrate precursor that provides the detectable chromophore or fluorophore. In addition other additives may be included such as stabilizers buffers for example a block buffer or lysis buffer and the like. The relative amounts of the various reagents may be varied widely to provide for concentrations in solution of the reagents that substantially optimize the sensitivity of the assay. The reagents may be provided as dry powders usually lyophilized including excipients that on dissolution will provide a reagent solution having the appropriate concentration.

In another embodiment a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody disclosed herein is useful in the treatment of various disorders associated with the expression of IL 23p19 as described herein. Methods for treating an IL 23 associated disorder comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of a humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody to a subject in need thereof.

The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent is administered by any suitable means including parenteral subcutaneous intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal and if desired for local immunosuppressive treatment intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the antibody before transplantation . The humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent can be administered for example as an infusion or as a bolus. Parenteral infusions include intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal or subcutaneous administration. In addition the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody is suitably administered by pulse infusion particularly with declining doses of the antibody. In one aspect the dosing is given by injections most preferably intravenous or subcutaneous injections depending in part on whether the administration is brief or chronic.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of antibody will depend on a variety of factors such as the type of disease to be treated as defined above the severity and course of the disease whether the antibody is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the antibody and the discretion of the attending physician. The antibody is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments.

Depending on the type and severity of the disease about 1 g kg to 20 mg kg e.g. 0.1 15 mg kg of antibody is an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient whether for example by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. A typical daily dosage might range from about 1 g kg to 100 mg kg or more depending on the factors mentioned above. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment is sustained until a desired suppression of disease symptoms occurs. However other dosage regimens may be useful. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by conventional techniques and assays. An exemplary dosing regimen is that disclosed in WO 94 04188.

The term suppression is used herein in the same context as amelioration and alleviation to mean a lessening of one or more characteristics of the disease.

The antibody composition will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the antibody to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the disorder associated with IL 23 expression.

The antibody need not be but is optionally formulated with one or more agents currently used to prevent or treat the disorder in question. The effective amount of such other agents depends on the amount of humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody present in the formulation the type of disorder or treatment and other factors discussed above. These are generally used in the same dosages and with administration routes as used hereinbefore or about from 1 to 99 of the heretofore employed dosages.

The anti IL 23p19 antibodies or agents are useful for treating or preventing an immunological disorder characterized by abnormal expression of IL 23 e.g. by inappropriate activation of immune cells e.g. lymphocytes or dendritic cells . Such abnormal expression of IL 23 can be due to for example increased IL 23 protein levels. The anti IL 23p19 antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof also find use in the treatment or prevention of respiratory disorders metabolic disorders for example diabetes mellitus and certain cancers. Treatment or prevention of the immunological disorder respiratory disorder metabolic disorder or cancer according to the methods described herein is achieved by administering to a subject in need of such treatment or prevention an effective amount of the anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent whereby the antibody decreases the activity of IL 23 associated with the disease state.

Immunological diseases that are characterized by inappropriate activation of immune cells and that can be treated or prevented by the methods described herein can be classified for example by the type s of hypersensitivity reaction s that underlie the disorder. These reactions are typically classified into four types anaphylactic reactions cytotoxic cytolytic reactions immune complex reactions or cell mediated immunity CMI reactions also referred to as delayed type hypersensitivity DTH reactions . See e.g. Fundamental Immunology William E. Paul ed. Raven Press N.Y. 3rd ed. 1993 . Immunological diseases include inflammatory diseases and autoimmune diseases.

Specific examples of such immunological diseases include the following rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune demyelinative diseases e.g. multiple sclerosis allergic encephalomyelitis endocrine opthalmopathy uveoretinitis systemic lupus erythematosus myasthenia gravis Grave s disease glomerulonephritis autoimmune hepatological disorder inflammatory bowel disease e.g. Crohn s disease or ulcerative colitis anaphylaxis allergic reaction Sjogren s syndrome type I diabetes mellitus primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis fibromyalgia polymyositis dermatomyositis inflammatory myositis multiple endocrine failure Schmidt s syndrome autoimmune uveitis Addison s disease adrenalitis thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis autoimmune thyroid disease pernicious anemia gastric atrophy chronic hepatitis lupoid hepatitis atherosclerosis subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus hypoparathyroidism Dressler s syndrome autoimmune thrombocytopenia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic anemia pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus dermatitis herpetiformis alopecia arcata pemphigoid scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysmotility sclerodactyl and telangiectasia male and female autoimmune infertility ankylosing spondolytis ulcerative colitis mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nedosa systemic necrotizing vasculitis atopic dermatitis atopic rhinitis Goodpasture s syndrome Chagas disease sarcoidosis rheumatic fever asthma recurrent abortion anti phospholipid syndrome farmer s lung erythema multiforme post cardiotomy syndrome Cushing s syndrome autoimmune chronic active hepatitis bird fancier s lung toxic epidermal necrolysis Alport s syndrome alveolitis allergic alveolitis fibrosing alveolitis interstitial lung disease erythema nodosum pyoderma gangrenosum transfusion reaction Takayasu s arteritis polymyalgia rheumatica temporal arteritis schistosomiasis giant cell arteritis ascariasis aspergillosis Sampter s syndrome eczema lymphomatoid granulomatosis Behcet s disease Caplan s syndrome Kawasaki s disease dengue encephalomyelitis endocarditis endomyocardial fibrosis endophthalmitis erythema elevatum et diutinum psoriasis psoriatic arthritis erythroblastosis fetalis eosinophilic faciitis Shulman s syndrome Felty s syndrome filariasis cyclitis chronic cyclitis heterochronic cyclitis Fuch s cyclitis IgA nephropathy Henoch Schonlein purpura graft versus host disease transplantation rejection cardiomyopathy Eaton Lambert syndrome relapsing polychondritis cryoglobulinemia Waldenstrom s macroglobulemia Evan s syndrome acute respiratory distress syndrome pulmonary inflammation osteoporosis delayed type hypersensitivity and autoimmune gonadal failure.

In some embodiments the immunological disorder is a T cell mediated immunological disorder and accordingly the anti IL 23p19 antibodies and agents as described herein are also useful for treating or preventing T cell mediated immunological disorders.

In one aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibodies or agents are useful for treating or preventing a respiratory disorder in which IL 23 is abnormally expressed. Treatment or prevention of the respiratory disorder according to the methods described herein is achieved by administering to a subject in need of such treatment or prevention an effective amount of the anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent whereby the antibody decreases the activity of IL 23 associated with the disease state. These include but are not limited to respiratory complaints obstructive pulmonary diseases of various origins pulmonary emphysema of various origins restrictive pulmonary diseases interstitial pulmonary diseases interstitial lung disease cystic fibrosis bronchitis of various origins bronchiectasis ARDS adult respiratory distress syndrome and all forms of pulmonary oedema obstructive pulmonary diseases selected from among COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease asthma bronchial asthma paediatric asthma severe asthma acute asthma attacks and chronic bronchitis pulmonary emphysema which has its origins in COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or 1 proteinase inhibitor deficiency restrictive pulmonary diseases selected from among allergic alveolitis restrictive pulmonary diseases triggered by work related noxious substances such as asbestosis or silicosis and restriction caused by lung tumours such as lymphangiosis carcinomatosa bronchoalveolar carcinoma and lymphomas pneumonia caused by infections such as for example infection by viruses bacteria fungi protozoa helminths or other pathogens pneumonitis caused by various factors such as for example aspiration and left heart insufficiency radiation induced pneumonitis or fibrosis collagenoses such as for example lupus erythematosus systemic scleroderma or sarcoidosis granulomatoses such as for example Boeck s disease idiopathic interstitial pneumonia or idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF mucoviscidosis bronchitis caused by bacterial or viral infection allergic bronchitis and toxic bronchitis bronchiectasis pulmonary oedema for example toxic pulmonary oedema after aspiration or inhalation of toxic substances and foreign substances rhinitis arthritis and related arthropathies psoriasis myeloid leukemia multiple sclerosis Alzheimer s disease glomerulonephritis and chronic atopic dermatitis.

In another aspect the anti IL 23p19 antibodies and agents as described herein are also useful for treating cancers in which IL 23 is abnormally expressed.

IL 23 expressing cancers that can be treated by the methods described herein include for example leukemia such as acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia e.g. myeloblastic promyelocytic myelomonocytic monocytic or erythroleukemia chronic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia or chronic lymphocytic leukemia Polycythemia vera Lymphoma e.g. Hodgkin s disease or Non Hodgkin s disease multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease solid tumors such sarcomas and carcinomas e.g. fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma osteosarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma colorectal carcinoma pancreatic cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer uterine cancer testicular tumor lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma epithelial carcinoma glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma menangioma melanoma neuroblastoma retinoblastoma nasopharyngeal carcinoma or esophageal carcinoma .

A composition comprising an IL 23p19 binding agent e.g. an anti IL 23p19 antibody can be administered to a subject having or at risk of having an immunological disorder respiratory disorder or a cancer. The invention further provides for the use of a IL 23p19 binding agent e.g. an anti IL 23p19 antibody in the manufacture of a medicament for prevention or treatment of a cancer respiratory disorder or immunological disorder. The term subject as used herein means any mammalian patient to which an IL 23p19 binding agent can be administered including e.g. humans and non human mammals such as primates rodents and dogs. Subjects specifically intended for treatment using the methods described herein include humans. The antibodies or agents can be administered either alone or in combination with other compositions in the prevention or treatment of the immunological disorder respiratory disorder or cancer. Such compositions which can be administered in combination with the antibodies or agents include methotrexate MTX and immunomodulators e.g. antibodies or small molecules.

Examples of antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are those that comprise a humanized antibody or antibody fragment having the light chain variable region amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 84 86 88 90 91 93 95 97 99 101 103 105 107 109 111 113 115 117 or 119. Examples of antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise a humanized antibody or antibody fragment having the heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 121 123 125 127 128 130 132 134 136 138 140 142 144 146 148 150 152 154 or 156.

Further examples of antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise a humanized antibody or antibody fragment having the light chain variable region amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 158 160 162 or 164. Preferred antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise a humanized antibody or antibody fragment having the heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 166 168 170 or 172.

Further examples of antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise a humanized antibody or antibody fragment having the light chain variable region and heavy chain variable region of any of SEQ ID NO 160 and 166 SEQ ID NO 160 and 168 SEQ ID NO 158 and 166 or SEQ ID NO 158 and 168.

Further examples of antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise a humanized antibody having the light chain region amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 174 or 180. Preferred antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise humanized antibody having the heavy chain variable region amino acid sequence of any of SEQ ID NO 176 or 178.

Further examples of antibodies for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are also those that comprise Antibody A Antibody B Antibody C or Antibody D.

Various delivery systems are known and can be used to administer the IL 23p19 binding agent. Methods of introduction include but are not limited to intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous intranasal epidural and oral routes. The IL 23p19 binding agent can be administered for example by infusion bolus or injection and can be administered together with other biologically active agents such as chemotherapeutic agents. Administration can be systemic or local. In preferred embodiments the administration is by subcutaneous injection. Formulations for such injections may be prepared in for example prefilled syringes that may be administered once every other week.

In specific embodiments the IL 23p19 binding agent composition is administered by injection by means of a catheter by means of a suppository or by means of an implant the implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including a membrane such as a sialastic membrane or a fiber. Typically when administering the composition materials to which the anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent does not absorb are used.

In other embodiments the anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent is delivered in a controlled release system. In one embodiment a pump may be used see e.g. Langer 1990 Science 249 1527 1533 Sefton 1989 CRC Crit. Ref. Biomed. Eng. 14 201 Buchwald et al. 1980 Surgery 88 507 Saudek et al. 1989 N. Engl. J. Med. 321 574 . In another embodiment polymeric materials can be used. See e.g. Medical Applications of Controlled Release Langer and Wise eds. CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1974 Controlled Drug Bioavailability Drug Product Design and Performance Smolen and Ball eds. Wiley New York 1984 Ranger and Peppas 1983 Macromol. Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem. 23 61. See also Levy et al. 1985 Science 228 190 During et al. 1989 Ann. Neurol. 25 351 Howard et al. 1989 J. Neurosurg. 71 105. Other controlled release systems are discussed for example in Langer supra.

An IL 23p19 binding agent e.g. an anti IL 23p19 antibody can be administered as pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the binding agent and one or more pharmaceutically compatible ingredients.

In typical embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous or subcutaneous administration to human beings. Typically compositions for administration by injection are solutions in sterile isotonic aqueous buffer. Where necessary the pharmaceutical can also include a solubilizing agent and a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form for example as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where the pharmaceutical is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the pharmaceutical is administered by injection an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be mixed prior to administration.

Further the pharmaceutical composition can be provided as a pharmaceutical kit comprising a a container containing a IL 23p19 binding agent e.g. an anti IL 23p19 antibody in lyophilized form and b a second container containing a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent e.g. sterile water for injection. The pharmaceutically acceptable diluent can be used for reconstitution or dilution of the lyophilized anti IL 23p19 antibody or agent. Optionally associated with such container s can be a notice in the form prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture use or sale of pharmaceuticals or biological products which notice reflects approval by the agency of manufacture use or sale for human administration.

The amount of the IL 23p19 binding agent e.g. anti IL 23p19 antibody that is effective in the treatment or prevention of an immunological disorder or cancer can be determined by standard clinical techniques. In addition in vitro assays may optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the formulation will also depend on the route of administration and the stage of immunological disorder or cancer and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient s circumstances. Effective doses may be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

Generally the dosage of an anti IL 23p19 antibody or IL 23p19 binding agent administered to a patient with an immunological disorder or IL 23p19 expressing cancer is typically about 0.1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg of the subject s body weight. The dosage administered to a subject is about 0.1 mg kg to about 50 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 30 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg or about 1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the subject s body weight.

Exemplary doses include but are not limited to from 1 ng kg to 100 mg kg. In some embodiments a dose is about 0.5 mg kg about 1 mg kg about 2 mg kg about 3 mg kg about 4 mg kg about 5 mg kg about 6 mg kg about 7 mg kg about 8 mg kg about 9 mg kg about 10 mg kg about 11 mg kg about 12 mg kg about 13 mg kg about 14 mg kg about 15 mg kg or about 16 mg kg. The dose can be administered for example daily once per week weekly twice per week thrice per week four times per week five times per week six times per week biweekly or monthly every two months or every three months. In specific embodiments the dose is about 0.5 mg kg week about 1 mg kg week about 2 mg kg week about 3 mg kg week about 4 mg kg week about 5 mg kg week about 6 mg kg week about 7 mg kg week about 8 mg kg week about 9 mg kg week about 10 mg kg week about 11 mg kg week about 12 mg kg week about 13 mg kg week about 14 mg kg week about 15 mg kg week or about 16 mg kg week. In some embodiments the dose ranges from about 1 mg kg week to about 15 mg kg week.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions comprising the IL 23p19 binding agent can further comprise a therapeutic agent either conjugated or unconjugated to the binding agent. The anti IL 23p19 antibody or IL 23p19 binding agent can be co administered in combination with one or more therapeutic agents for the treatment or prevention of immunological disorders or cancers.

Such combination therapy administration can have an additive or synergistic effect on disease parameters e.g. severity of a symptom the number of symptoms or frequency of relapse .

With respect to therapeutic regimens for combinatorial administration in a specific embodiment an anti IL 23p19 antibody or IL 23p19 binding agent is administered concurrently with a therapeutic agent. In another specific embodiment the therapeutic agent is administered prior or subsequent to administration of the anti IL 23p19 antibody or IL 23p19 binding agent by at least an hour and up to several months for example at least an hour five hours 12 hours a day a week a month or three months prior or subsequent to administration of the anti IL 23p19 antibody or IL 23p19 binding agent.

In another aspect an article of manufacture containing materials useful for the treatment of the disorders described above is included. The article of manufacture comprises a container and a label. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes and test tubes. The containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds a composition that is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port. For example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle. The active agent in the composition is the humanized anti IL 23p19 antibody. The label on or associated with the container indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice. The article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles syringes and package inserts with instructions for use.

The invention is further described in the following examples which are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Mouse lead antibody 6B8 was converted to a chimeric antibody consisting of the mouse variable domain of 6B8 and a human constant IgG1KO domain. Mouse antibody 6B8 is shown in Tables 1 and 2 herein above. The IgG1KO knock out has two replacement mutations Leu234Ala and Leu235Ala that eliminate ADCC and CDC activity by reducing effector functions such as Fc R and complement binding. The variable domains of the mouse and chimeric antibodies are identical. Chimeric antibodies are generated to confirm the function of the antibody and to ensure the correct sequence has been obtained. The variable region of the antibody is then humanized through a design and screening process. A library was made where human and mouse residues were varied in such a way that in any given position there could be either a human or mouse residue. Such a library was made for those amino acids that were different between human germline and mouse antibody. Only the clones that retain the function of the parent mouse antibody were selected. Representative humanized variable regions for antibody 6B8 are shown in Tables 5 and 6.

In this manner Antibody A Antibody B Antibody C and Antibody D were humanized antibodies derived from mouse antibody 6B8 cloned into a human IgG1 KO KO knock out kappa backbone. Antibodies A B C and D are shown in Table 7.

A Kinetics and affinity of mouse anti IL 23p19 antibodies binding to recombinant human IL 23 are shown below Table 9 . Kinetics and binding affinities were measured using the Fortebio Octet Fortebio Menlo Park Calif. using material generated from hybridoma following single column purification. Since the Octet is not a fluidics based technology this method does not provide precise determination of off rate. In some cases only a estimate of affinity can be obtained.

B Affinities were measured for humanized antibodies derived from mouse antibody 6B8. Kinetic binding data measured using the ProteON XPR36 Biorad Hercules Calif. and globally fit to a 1 1 binding model demonstrated the interactions with recombinant IL 23 either with or without a 21 amino acid linker covalently joining the p19 and p40 subunits to be of high affinity in the range of 1 pM 100 pM Table 10 . Antibody 6H12 disclosed in WO 2007 027714 antibody QF20 disclosed in WO 2007 024846 and antibody C1273 disclosed in WO 2007 005955 were also tested.

C Affinity and kinetic data for the anti IL 23p19 antibodies binding to cynomologous IL 23 were measured on the ProteON XPR36 and globally fit to a 1 1 binding model Table 11 . Antibody 6H12 disclosed in WO 2007 027714 antibody QF20 disclosed in WO 2007 024846 and antibody C1273 disclosed in WO 2007 005955 were also tested.

The anti IL 23p19 antibodies were also injected over a human IL 12 surface at a concentration of 100 nM. The binding signal for these antibodies measured using the Fortebio Octet is zero which indicates that these antibodies selectively bind to human IL 23. The binding of the anti IL 23p19 antibodies to IL 23 was also analyzed in the presence of 50 human serum and no significant effect of serum on binding on rate was observed demonstrating high specificity.

Human IL 23R Fc was captured on the biosensor surface and 10 nM of human IL 23 was injected. The sensorgram indicates the specific binding between IL 23 and the IL 23 receptor top trace . Antibodies were then co injected with 10 nM human IL 23 to assess whether antibody binding to the IL 23 could inhibit the interaction between IL 23 and the IL 23 receptor. In this example if the antibody binds to human IL 23 and is able to inhbit the interaction then reduced or no binding will be observed bottom trace . In the example shown an equivalent molar concentration of Antibody A was co injected with 10 nM recombinant human IL 23.

One functional cell assay for anti IL 23p19 antibodies measures their ability to inhibit IL 23 stimulated IL 17 production from mononuclear cells isolated from mouse spleens. Human recombinant IL 23 protein is capable of stimulating IL 17 release from mouse splenocytes. In addition a natural source of human IL 23 found in the supernatant of activated human monocytic THP 1 cells can be used to stimulate IL 17 production from mouse mononuclear cells.

Human recombinant IL 23 or natural human IL 23 from activated THP 1 cells was preincubated with titrated anti IL 23p19 antibodies. The IL 23 antibody combinations were then added to freshly isolated murine splenocytes. Recombinant IL 23 alone was used as a positive control. After two days in culture cell supernatants were collected and assayed for IL 17 by ELISA R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. . Representative ICvalues for anti IL 23p19 antibodies are shown below. The tested antibodies are mouse antibodies derived from hybridomas rows 1 19 see tables 1 and 2 chimeric antibodies rows 20 23 and Antibodies A to D. Antibody 6H12 disclosed in WO 2007 027714 antibody QF20 disclosed in WO 2007 024846 and antibody C1273 disclosed in WO 2007 005955 were also tested.

Anti IL 23p19 antibodies were tested for functional inhibition of IL 12 in a human activated T cell assay. Human recombinant IL 12 1 ng ml was preincubated with 5 g ml anti IL 23p19 antibodies. The IL 12 antibody combinations were then added to human PHA derived T cell blasts. Recombinant IL 12 alone was used as a positive control. An anti IL 12p70 antibody Bender MedSystems Vienna Austria was used as a control inhibitory antibody. After two days in culture cell supernatants were collected and assayed for IFN by ELISA R D Systems . Samples were tested in triplicate and the average pg ml of IFN was determined. Results with standard deviations are shown in the table below.

The human cell line DB ATCC Manassas Va. responds to IL 23 stimulation through an endogenous IL 23Rcomplex IL 23R and IL 12R 1 and phosphorylates STAT3 in an IL 23 dose dependent manner. An assay was developed for testing anti IL 23p19 antibody inhibition of IL 23 induced STAT3 phosphorylation. DB cells were plated at 1 10e6 cells well in a 96 well plate. Antibodies to be tested were serially diluted and preincubated with recombinant human IL 23 10 ng ml for 1 hour at room temperature. The antibody IL 23 mixture was then added to the cells for 30 minutes at 37 C. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 4 C. for 10 minutes and then lysed in ice cold buffer Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. . A portion of the lysate was run in a phospho STAT3 ELISA Invitrogen . Antibody ICvalues were calculated as percent inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation compared to control wells without antibody. Representative ICvalues are shown in the table below.

An in vivo model in the mouse was used. Recombinant human IL 23 is injected into the skin of the mouse ear for 4 consecutive days resulting in epidermal thickening and up regulation of IL 17 and IL 22 protein. Anti IL 23p19 antibodies were evaluated in this model. A single intraperitoneal injection of 1 mg kg or 5 mg kg antibody was administered 1 hour prior to the initial IL 23 injection into the skin. Recombinant human IL 23 with linker was injected once daily for 3 additional days and tissue was collected for cytokine assessment. Inhibition of cytokine production was demonstrated for the antibodies. The results of three experiments are shown in the table below exp. 1 rows 1 7 exp. 2 rows 8 10 exp. 3 rows 11 14 .

Humanized anti IL 23p19 antibodies were administered by ten minute intravenous infusion at a dose of 1.0 mg kg to three cynomolgus monkeys. Serum samples were collected over a 6 week time course and free antibody concentrations were measured using a specific ELISA. The serum concentration time profiles for the antibodies and the corresponding pharmacokinetic parameters are summarized in the Table 16 below.

NS0 cells were grown in the presence of 1 FBS before transfection. 40 10e6 cells were collected and resuspended in 0.8 ml in media containing 2 FBS with 20 ug of linearized DNA heavy chain and light chain expression vectors and then cells were incubated on ice for approximately 15 min before electroporation of the cells at 750V 25 uF Bio Rad Gene Pulser Xcell . Cells were recovered with 2 FBS for approximately 48 hours at 37 C. and 5 CO2 then plated in 96 well plates at 2 10e5 cells ml containing G418 and mycophenolic acid for 14 21 days until formation of colonies.

Supernatant from 96 well plates with colonies were screened by ELISA. ELISA plates were coated with 1 ug ml of goat anti kappa Southern Biotech Birmingham Ala. in PBS and diluted supernatant were incubated and then detected with goat anti human IgG Fc HRP from Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories West Grove Pa. . The positive colonies were pooled for scale up. Titers for antibody production were determined by ForteBio using protein A tips according to manufacture protocol. The titers for Antibody A and Antibody D were between 250 350 mg L with more than 80 recovery from protein purification and more than 94 monomer after IEX purification. Proteins were resuspended in a final buffer containing 20 mM Sodium Citrate and 115 mM NaCl pH 6.0 and are stable at 4 C. for at least 4 months and with solubility up to 100 mg ml in this buffer.

Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry HXMS was employed to map the epitope of Antibody A binding to human IL 23p19. This method determined the susceptibility of the amide backbone hydrogens of IL 23p19 to exchange with DO. The experiment was conducted with IL 23 alone and IL 23 with added Antibody A. Regions of the IL 23p19 sequence showing significant protection from exchange due to binding of Antibody A were thus identified. Resolution of the method is determined by the peptides produced by digestion with pepsin or Protease XVIII. These IL 23p19 derived peptides were identified by additional control experiments with unexchanged samples employing standard accurate mass and HPLC MS MS technologies.

Recombinant human IL 23 was used. For the protein antibody sample 50 ul of IL 23 0.8 mg ml was incubated with 10 ul of Antibody A 12.7 mg ml for 15 minutes at room temperature. The final molar ratio Antibody A IL 23 was 1.2 1.

For the exchange 5 ul of IL 23 protein was added to 50 ul deuterated buffer 50 mM PBS in DO and incubated for 100 seconds at room temperature. 50 ul of 2M Urea 0.5M TCEP was added and incubated for 60 seconds at room temperature. 5 ul pepsin or Protease XVIII 4 mg ml in 0.1 formic acid was added and the sample was immediately cooled to 4 C.

After 5 minutes 50 ul of sample was injected onto a Shimadzu HPLC system SCL10A controller and two LC10AD pumps under the following conditions 

Pepsin and Protease XVIII peptides were identified using fragmentation data and the program Proteome Discoverer Thermoscientific Waltham Mass. . Identified peptides were visually compared protein alone vs. protein with antibody present using Xcalibur software Thermoscientific . No significant shifts in exchange were observed for IL 23 alone vs. IL 23 with Antibody A outside of the IL 23p19 region. For the p19 portion of the protein data was analyzed using the program PepMap Thermoscientific . This program calculates the average mass for exchanged peptides. PepMap results were checked and those peptides that did not yield verified results were calculated with the aid of Microsoft Excel.

The regions of the IL 23 sequence showing significant protection from exchange due to binding of Antibody A were identified as amino acid residues 108 to 126 of SEQ ID NO 181 and amino acid residues 137 to 151 of SEQ ID NO 181.

