---

title: Systems and methods for access-controlled interactions
abstract: An interaction server controls access between a plurality of senders and/or users exchanging electronic interactions. A sender may identify a user with whom the sender desires to interact using a public identifier associated with the user. The interaction server may coordinate the desired interaction without revealing private information, such as information about private user resources (e.g., personal contact information, personal payment information, personal data, etc.). The interaction server may determine whether to provide an interaction by evaluating an access code, by determining whether a user is trusted, and/or the like. The interaction server may provide the interaction, a notice of the interaction, a payload associated with the interaction, and/or the like to a user resource associated with the public identifier if access is allowed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874770&OS=08874770&RS=08874770
owner: Evernym, Inc.
number: 08874770
owner_city: Herriman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140109
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 750 634 filed Jan. 9 2013 and entitled Systems and Methods for Access Controlled Interactions which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to systems and methods for controlling access to and interaction with user resources.

The present disclosure introduces inter alia new communication and interaction methods and technologies able to resolve a number of difficult problems for interpersonal business and group interactions and or mass communications. Currently personal and otherwise private information including personal identifiers must be disclosed for one person to interact with another person or entity. This results in the forfeiting of control over that person and otherwise private information and the forfeiting of control over access to person and otherwise private resources. For example personal contact information such as an email address or phone number must be disclosed for one person to contact another. However if personal contact information becomes widely known and or available unwanted communications such as spam or phone solicitations may be received. There may be no way to stop the unwanted communications other than to change the personal contact information which may be inconvenient tedious and or impossible. The fear of unwanted solicitations and other communications often makes users hesitant to provide their personal contact information to merchants and the like. Merchants are often put in a fox guarding the hen house position when receiving an unsubscribe request from a user e.g. a request from an owner of an email address that the merchant no longer use the email address .

Also children are increasingly engaged in and dependent upon electronic communications with others such as their school teachers yet children may be particularly vulnerable to inappropriate or undesirable electronic communications and stand in need of a safe way to electronically communicate. Also there is no universal cross platform method for companies to control monitor and or record all electronic communications made by their employees whether the communication is from home or work using a company phone or personal phone and regardless of method e.g. email short message service SMS pager messages smartphone notifications in app messages in mobile web or desktop applications calls to external web services or APIs chat client messages of various protocols instant message IM voice etc. .

In addition there are several limitations with current methods of interpersonal communications especially when the communication is urgent. No method exists to automatically escalate urgent or emergency communications across multiple disparate communication methods such as from an email message to an SMS message to a phone call and or to repeat attempts at regular intervals until the intended recipient has confirmed receipt. This leaves a sender of an urgent message with only manual escalation options attempting different phone numbers email addresses other devices other people etc. one at a time which may only work if the sender is in possession of the necessary contact information and or subscribing to similar systems as the receiver such as subscribing to the same IM provider for example . Similarly to be reached for urgent communications one must divulge their personal contact information to all potential senders with all the attendant privacy problems mentioned previously.

 Privately public interaction may allow a user to use one interaction address such as a communication address that does not need to be changed no matter how public it becomes and for others to use that address to interact with the user with multiple methods email SMS MMS IM voice video personal computer and the like without possessing any of the user s other contact information phone numbers email addresses etc. . Moreover the user may prevent unapproved others from interacting with the user and or accessing user resources even if they possess the user s interaction address and the user may revoke anyone s abilities to interact with the user at any time without having to replace the interaction address. This provides privacy and control for the user and a simple convenient and effective means for others to interact with him or her. Further interactions directed to the one interaction address may be routed to the user via phone numbers IM addresses email addresses social media addresses and the like. Only the interaction address and sometimes an access code needs to be given out for any method of interaction to be conducted.

Privately public interaction may be facilitated by an interaction server. The interaction server may control interactions such as electronic or other communications between and among users non users and or devices. The interaction server may be used for various methods of interaction including application to application email SMS MMS messaging telephone calls faxes audio video conferencing webinar screen sharing instant messaging postal mail social media messaging and posting data verification data transfer validation authentication and or any other method of interaction. The interaction server may receive an interaction such as an interaction request intended for a user from a sender who is a user or a non user. The interaction request may be implicit. For example the sender may not know he or she is interacting with an interaction server and may just be attempting to send a message using a conventional paradigm. The interaction request may be received at the interaction server via one or more of a plurality of methods such as an application interface email SMS phone calls IM web service API a request to process postal mail and the like. The interaction server may route the interaction request a notice of the request physical mail or the like to the intended user receiver through one or more of a plurality of methods such as an application email SMS phone calls IM postal mail and the like. The receiver may respond to the sender through the interaction server using the same or a different method. The receiver may respond to the sender in another way without using the interaction server. A history of all messages and or interaction requests may be recorded and stored locally or remotely.

In some embodiments a message center may store a record of sent and or received interaction requests and or messages. The message center may store the interaction requests and or messages even if copies of or links to the messages or requests have been routed elsewhere. The message center may include one or more data structures such as a database list stack queue or the like to store the messages. A user may log in to the message center to view the messages. The message center may be displayed to the user as one or more mailboxes folders directories lists etc. The user may be able to interact with the messages accessed through the message center including forwarding replying and or the like.

A user may register a public address with the interaction server. The address may be in a variety of forms such as a string including numbers letters and or other symbols or characters. The user may use the public address as a single unique public identifier to which multiple types of interaction email SMS IM phone postal mail etc. are addressed. The interaction server may receive interaction requests such as communication requests and route them to user resources such as client devices or physical addresses designated by the users the case of physical postal mail is described below . The client devices locations may be identified by private addresses and or users running proprietary applications. The private addresses may include information not visible to the sender of the interaction such as email addresses telephone numbers screen names postal addresses social media addresses and the like.

The public address may be modified and or diverted so as to successfully deliver interaction requests to the interaction server via different methods. For example for a user with the public address of SUPERMAN123 interaction requests may be addressed to SUPERMAN123 example.com and sent to the interaction server via email. Interaction requests sent via SMS to SUPERMAN123 example.com may also be received by the interaction server. Phone calls may be sent through a calling application compatible with directly dialing SUPERMAN123 sent by dialing a general number where the caller is prompted to provide SUPERMAN123 sent by dialing a specific number associated with SUPERMAN123 or the like. This process may be automated by using an app on a smartphone that facilitates the process. For example the user may simply select SUPERMAN123 and indicate that a voice interaction is desired. Ns may be re directed to the interaction server may be re directed to a service compatible with the interaction server or a proprietary IM service may be used.

Users may specify interaction rules that determine how incoming interactions are routed. The interaction rules may be general or customized for certain senders or groups categories or types of senders such as non users new users users in a directory or a group within a directory and the like. The rules may be general or customized by the type of interaction request received such as voice text request and the like. The rules may include if how and or where to deliver voice text or physical mail communications acknowledgement preferences the location of the user allowed or preferred private addresses phone numbers email addresses etc. allowed blocked or preferred senders rules for handling and or escalating urgent or emergency messages blackout periods in which all or some interaction requests may be blocked or held until the end of the blackout period the duration for which access is granted when each method of interaction is permitted e.g. time of day day of week etc. whether personal contact information or other data is visible to other users and or non users if and or how to display the sender in a directory of contacts and the like. Users may be permitted to change the interaction rules at will.

An interaction request may specify the type of interaction requested. The type of interaction requested may be a generic method of communication such as written message voice message live voice and the like a specific method of communication that is desired such as email or a phone call or the like. The interaction server may evaluate the rules to transmit the interaction request to one or more client devices designated by the user. For example the interaction server may forward a written message to an e mail address route a phone call or fax to the appropriate telephone number or the like. The interaction server may evaluate the interaction rules to determine if and or how client devices may receive the interaction request. Exemplary client devices may include a phone pager computer server smartphone tablet personal digital assistant and or the like. Accordingly a written message may be transmitted to a user as an IM if the user is at work or a text message if the user is not at work for example. The user s location may be determined from GPS data login status time of day cascading through devices or the like. Client devices may be running an application to send and or receive interactions.

Instead of placing a traditional phone call a caller might instead simply request a voice interaction using an app through the interaction server. If the recipient is available he or she may accept the interaction and a voice chat or phone call may ensue. If the recipient is not available the recipient may respond with a time or duration when he or she would be available or simply not respond at all. When the recipient becomes available he or she can simply respond to the original interaction request and the voice chat or phone call may ensue. If the original requester is unavailable by the time the recipient is available the original requester may respond similarly indicating when he or she might be available. In this manner the interaction server may facilitate efficient interaction solving the problems associated with traditional phone tag .

Using the interaction server a user may indicate their level of availability which can be used for escalation and or routing communication to or through various communication mechanisms or devices. The user may also choose to publish their level of availability to all users and or to trusted other users in order to help set expectations of individuals who wish to interact with the user. Interaction escalation and routing may be affected by a receiver s level of availability the receiver s level of trust of the sender and or the sender s stated urgency.

A first person whether a user or a non user may attempt to interact with a second person through a regular private address such as a regular phone number or email address. The second person may prefer interacting using the interaction server and may have such incoming interactions automatically diverted by service providers to the interaction server where interaction rules may again apply such as restrictions routing escalation permissions and the like. Interaction rules may be based on the originating phone number originating email address time of day and the like.

The interaction server may restrict unwanted interaction requests including unwanted communications from being sent to users. The interaction server may allow only certain interaction requests and not others. One method of controlling access may be through the use of access codes. Interaction requests may include an access code and the interaction server may determine whether interaction requests are authorized for the received access code. The interaction server may require that an access code be registered with the interaction server before that access code is used by a sender. The interaction server may also dynamically allocate access codes when an interaction request with a new access code is received. An unlimited number of messages and or an unlimited number of different senders may use an access code. If access code functionality is enabled and an interaction request arrives without an access code the sender may be prompted to enter one and or the request may be ignored. Ignored requests may be stored such that the receiver may choose to review blocked or ignored interaction requests. The interaction server may reject and or bounce interaction requests without valid access codes before the entire interaction request has been downloaded by the interaction server to save bandwidth.

In one embodiment when sending or receiving a written message the access code may be added as a suffix or prefix to the local part of an email address and set off by a special character such as a tilde e.g. user1 56aQ1nE3 example.com and the email message itself may serve as the interaction request.

Users may issue valid new access codes and revoke access codes at will such as when interaction is no longer desired or unwanted interaction requests begin arriving with a particular access code. If an interaction request does not have a valid access code a bounce message and or a prompt to enter a correct access code may be returned and the user may not receive the interaction request or a notice of the attempt. If access code functionality is not enabled by a user interaction requests addressed to the user s public address and including any access code or not including an access code may be received by the user.

Interaction rules may be specified for each access code. For example messages with certain access codes may be treated as unverified interaction requests whereas other access codes may grant specific rights. For example 4428 may be an access code for important new contacts who automatically become trusted senders when using that access code 7726 may be an access code that is treated as spam and routed to a spam or unverified inbox and or tagged as spam soccer may be an access code that automatically tags senders as new contacts under a Soccer Team heading. For a particular access code interaction via all interaction methods may be authorized and or only certain interaction types and or methods may be used. Some access codes may allow messages to be sent to a verified mailbox and or allow live communication whereas other access codes may allow one or neither of these rights. In some embodiments the interaction server may include the access code used for access with forwarded messages so the user may filter received messages e.g. soccer may be filtered to a soccer folder and 7726 may be filtered to a bulk folder . Alternatively or in addition the interaction requests may be sent to different inboxes based on the access code used. The interaction requests may be sorted displayed tagged grouped etc. within a message center and or a mailbox based on the access code used. Interaction requests and or messages received with an access code may display or otherwise encode the access code used along with the interaction request and or message for the reference of the user.

Interaction rules for access codes may include the methods of interaction allowed how to handle urgent and emergency messages whether escalation of such messages is allowed the frequency sequence and types of interactions to use when escalating the duration that access is granted for when each method of interaction is permitted e.g. time of day day of week etc. whether personal contact information or other data is visible if or how to display the sender in a directory of contacts how replies to senders are formatted and or handled and the like. Users may be permitted to change the interaction rules for access codes at will including revoking access codes. Interaction rules for access codes may set the default interaction rules for a particular sender which may be changed or customized or maintained later. For example a sender may inherit default interaction rules from the first access code used by the sender. Interaction rules may also be used to aggregate or consolidate messages from a particular sender or group of senders such that a digest of sorts can be presented to the receiver. Instead of multiple similar messages showing up as separate messages they may be consolidated into one message wherein the receiver may view a single message that summarizes the multiple interactions.

Another method the interaction server may utilize to restrict access may be designation of trusted senders trusting . Trusting may be used by itself or in combination with other methods of restricting access such as access codes e.g. the interaction server may allow trusting and or access codes to be selectively enabled or disabled . Using both trusting and access codes may achieve two significant benefits of privately public interaction the public use of an interaction address without fear of unstoppable unwanted interaction requests and without disclosure of private addresses. For example if unwanted interaction requests are received from a trusted sender that sender may be un trusted and or blacklisted preventing further interaction. The interaction server may reject and or bounce interaction requests from blacklisted senders before the entire interaction request has been downloaded by the interaction server to save bandwidth. If unwanted interaction requests are received from senders using a valid access code but not yet trusted the access code may be revoked without affecting future interactions with trusted senders and without having to change the public address. In an embodiment a trusted sender may be required to use a valid access code for the interaction request to be received by the user.

Users may designate certain other users and or non users as trusted senders and automatically allow some or all communications and or interaction requests from those users. Other users email addresses phone numbers mailing address IM addresses and the like and or entities or accounts owning one or more of these addresses may be designated as trusted senders. Messages from new senders and or new addresses may be flagged grouped identified marked and or the like until a trust level has been established by the user. Senders may be designated as trusted before or after they have sent interaction requests to a user. Interaction and or communication addresses may be designated as trusted before or after the user has received interaction requests and or communications from them. Senders and or addresses may be designated as trusted individually or in groups from a list directory file folder database and or the like. Entire domains sub domains zones area codes zip codes ranges and the like may be trusted or un trusted e.g. blacklisted . Users may establish rules and or execute steps by which senders are trusted such as automatically trusting every recipient to whom the user has previously sent a message.

Communications and or interaction requests from trusted senders may be allowed even if no access code is included or an incorrect access code is included with an interaction request and or if access code functionality is disabled altogether. Trusted senders may be authenticated via a login process a digital signature ensuring an IP and or email address is not spoofed Sender Policy Framework SPF records third party validation and or the like. Interaction rules may be specified for each trusted sender and or default interaction rules may be used for a plurality of trusted senders. The interaction rules for trusted senders may include different levels of trust for different activities such as the methods of interaction allowed how to handle urgent and emergency messages whether escalation of such messages is allowed duration as a trusted sender when each method of interaction is permitted e.g. time of day day of week etc. whether the trusted sender may view personal contact information or other data of the user if or how the trusted sender is included in a directory of contacts how replies to the sender are formatted and or handled and the like. It may also be possible for a user to blacklist other users non users and or interaction addresses of any type so all communications and or interactions are blocked and previously granted permissions are revoked. A blacklisted user may remain blocked even if the user attempts to interact using a new private address and or a valid access code. Users may be permitted to change the interaction rules for trusted senders at will including revoking trusted sender status or modifying the level of trust and or permissions.

The interaction rules may allow third parties who are trusted by a first user s trusted senders trusted senders of my trusted senders to be automatically trusted trusted on a case by case basis trusted only for certain types of interactions etc. If this rule is disabled the mutual acquaintance may be requested to make an introduction. Users may be able to send requests for trust to other users without a valid access code but users may be permitted only a limited number of trust denials before the ability to send requests for trusted status is revoked. The trusting of senders may be crowd sourced based on the trusting decisions made by other users. Trusting statistics of decisions by other users may be shared with the user when the user is deciding whether to trust the sender and or the user may establish rules for automatically trusting or not trusting senders based on the trusting decisions of other users.

Different mailboxes folders labels tags flags groupings or the like may be used to identify messages from trusted senders versus non trusted senders among different trusted senders and or the like. For example a verified or trusted inbox may hold messages from trusted senders whereas another inbox may hold messages from non trusted senders. Alternatively or in addition messages may be sorted displayed tagged grouped etc. based on the trust level of the sender and or the use of an access code. Once a non trusted sender is designated as trusted the sort display tags etc. of the messages sent by that sender may change. For live voice or live video requests trusted callers may be allowed to ring through to the user whereas a non trusted caller may be automatically routed to a voice mail or other messaging system or prompted to identify themselves and or provide an access code and or the incoming call attempt may cause an alert to be sent to the user.

For interaction requests received from non users a provisional and or temporary account may be created that enables the trusting process with or without any action on the part of the user receiving the request or the non user. By this method users may use the trusting communication consolidation acknowledgement delivery and other features of the interaction server to interact with non users. Some features and capabilities that users enjoy may be used and or made available to non users when the non users interact with users such as prompting the non user for confirmation of receipt by including a link or a button on an email message notifying the non user when their message has been received and or acknowledged escalating between a non user s known interaction addresses and or devices until that confirmation has been received and the like. Users and non users may mark messages with hash tags and or other characters to leverage features of the interaction server e.g. task for a task assignment discussed below urgent for an urgent message discussed below or the like . Non users with provisional accounts may convert their provisional account to a permanent account and may be provided with a means to merge multiple provisional accounts into a single regular account.

Prior to the present disclosure for a first person to interact electronically with a second person the first person needed to select a known interaction address of the second person such as a phone number Skype or similar service username email address SMS number IM name and the like and attempt interaction. If the interaction attempt is unsuccessful the first person then needed to attempt another address if it is known . When interacting via the interaction server to interact via almost any interaction type whether voice or text the first person whether a user or a non user may need only possess a single public address for the user if the user has enabled access codes and or trusting a valid access code or prior acceptance as a trusted sender may also be required . The first person may not need to possess any phone numbers email or other addresses of the user with whom they are attempting to interact and yet multiple addresses and or types of communication such as voice and text of the user may be attempted until the user is successfully reached.

In an embodiment a first person may select the public address of the user the desired interaction type such as voice or written and a level of urgency. When urgency is not indicated on an interaction it may default to normal or low. Interactions from the first person may be processed according to interaction rules for the corresponding urgency established in the interaction server for the user. For example the first person may indicate that a written message is of normal urgency and the user s rules may specify email as the preferred delivery medium for normal urgency text written messages. Messages from the first person indicated to be of a higher urgency may trigger the high urgency delivery rules for the user such as repeated SMS messages simultaneous or sequential dialing of multiple phone numbers and the like.

Users may grant other users non users and or zones defined below rights to send to the user emergency or other urgent messages. Users may establish certain access codes as urgent or emergency access codes. The access code sender zone and or another field in the interaction request may indicate that the message is an urgent message and or the message may include an urgency indicator indicating a specific level of urgency e.g. low normal urgent and emergency .

When a user receives a message with an urgency indicator the interaction server may escalate the urgent message by sending it repeatedly via multiple interaction methods e.g. voice text etc. to multiple addresses and or devices sequentially or simultaneously at predetermined intervals and or the like. The interaction server may continue escalation until the message is acknowledged. The urgent message may be sent sequentially via multiple interaction methods with a predetermined interval between transmissions by each interaction method and or the urgent message may be sent via selected interaction methods simultaneously with a predetermined interval between each set of simultaneous transmissions or the like. If a user views their message center and or inbox the message may be flashing red or the like to indicate that it is currently being escalated. The interaction server may be configured to change the volume on a device e.g. changing a smartphone volume from silent to maximum volume cause it to vibrate flash lights and the like in an attempt to alert a user. The urgent message may also be escalated to a user s spouse family friends co workers etc. or even complete strangers in the vicinity. The user may be enabled to snooze the urgent message and the escalation may be delayed for a predetermined and or user indicated snooze interval. The user may send a confirmation or acknowledgement message to the interaction server to end escalation. The interaction server may provide a confirmation or acknowledgement or report of a lack thereof to the sender of the message.

The interaction server may use GPS or other location aware technologies to aid in reaching the intended user. The interaction server may escalate urgent messages to other users in the physical vicinity of the user. For example if a user being notified is unaware of the notification because their mobile phone ringer is off or their battery has died other users in the vicinity could be alerted to look for the intended user and convey the message. Location data may also be used to dynamically change the escalation order. For example when a user is at the office the office phone numbers and IM accounts may be alerted first when a user is at home the escalation order may be dynamically changed so that the home number and personal IM accounts may be alerted first.

The user may be able to define escalation rules and settings that determine which interaction methods are used the order in which those interaction methods are used the intervals between attempts for emergency messages and the like. The user may select escalation settings for each sender zone and or access code and or the user may use default settings for multiple senders zones access codes and the like. If the sender is abusing emergency rights the second user may revoke or modify the emergency rights. All messages from the sender may then be treated as non urgent messages. Alternatively the user may permit escalation only at certain times of day days of week weeks of the year etc. Conversely if a sender is regarded by the receiver as very important a VIP such as the receiver s child or the receiver s work supervisor certain or all types of interactions may be automatically escalated irrespective of the urgency indicator included with the interaction request or the urgency level specified may be automatically upgraded to the next higher urgency level or the like.

The interaction server may allow relationships between users including parent child employer employee peer to peer and the like. A parent account may be able to control interaction rules for and access to a child account. Thus the parent may be able to designate trusted senders issue and revoke access codes establish or modify interaction rules control use of and access to other account features and the like. The parent may choose to have all interaction requests or all unverified interaction requests addressed to the child to be held invisible to the child. The parent may then approve interaction requests and allow them to be sent to the child. The parent may choose to allow interaction requests from certain trusted senders and or comprising certain access codes to be sent to the child without requiring approval. Thus parents may provide a safe controlled way for children to enjoy the benefits of electronic interaction.

Users may be able to associate their accounts with companies or organizations through the use of zones. Zones may allow zone owners or administrators to control the look and feel of their members interactions and monitor content. An organization may register a zone with the interaction server. The organization may then invite or permit certain users to associate with the zone and may generate unique addresses for those users that may be used in conjunction with the zone. A unique address used in conjunction with a zone e.g. Sam.Jonescompany1 with the zone contained inside the braces may function like and be interchangeable with the public address described previously interaction requests may be restricted trusted senders identified and the like. For example a user Sam Jones may use Sam.Jonescompany1 and 1234 when giving out his zone provided public address along with a valid access code. As with the privately public system described earlier once a sender is identified as a trusted sender the access code may no longer be necessary and Sam.Jonescompany1 may be sufficient for trusted senders to successfully interact with Sam.

Unique addresses with zones may be part of a new user account or associated with a user s existing account. Unique addresses with zones may be associated with an existing account only when permission is granted by the account owner. When a user disassociates from an organization that user may be removed from the associated zone. A user may be associated with a plurality of zones. For example while user Sam Jones may use SamJones123 as his personal public address he may also associate it with Sam.Jonescompany1 and CoachJonessoccerteam1. 

An email message may be addressed to Sam.Jonescompany1 example.com for example with the zone contained inside the braces. An email addressed with a zone and an access code might look like Sam.Jonescompany1 1234 example.com. If an organization s email communications are forwarded to the interaction server for processing email messages from trusted senders may be sent to sam.jones company1.com for example without requiring the zone in braces resulting in privately public interactions being transparently provided to an organization s interactions within an email format.

A user may be allowed by the zone administrator to control certain aspects of his zone related interactions but not others. For example the user may be allowed to control some or all rules for receiving interactions or identifying trusted senders but not allowed to modify other rules or settings such as the look and feel of interactions editing certain contacts in the zone directory etc. Users may access the zone through signing in to their own personal account with which the zone is associated or through a separate sign in process established by the zone. Even though a zone may be associated with a personal account and the user may access the zone through that personal account the zone administrator may have no access to the user s personal account.

The interaction server may segregate interactions according to each zone and by non zone interactions. A user may specify alternate interaction rules for each zone such as only allowing a work phone and work email to receive calls and messages addressed to a zone associated with work and or the user may apply default interaction rules to both zone and non zone interactions. Contacts may also be segregated by zone. Thus an interaction request sent to a contact associated with a zone may be automatically branded with a predetermined signature look feel return address etc. For contacts associated with multiple zones the user may select which zone and or branding to apply. The interaction server may also determine zone associated phone usage and non zone associated phone usage so the organization and user may precisely account for usage costs etc.

A zone administrator and or one or more users with ownership privileges may be able to specify zone settings and or view and control all interactions and data associated with the zone. The zone administrator and or privileged users may be able to add associated users to groups and or sub groups within the zone interact with the associated users including sending interaction requests based on group sub group physical location department and the like remove users from the zone make global changes affecting all associated users designate and remove trusted senders manage access codes force associated users to subscribe to channels remove them from subscribing to channels and or approve the subscription to channels share directories among associated users groups sub groups etc. record all interaction requests sent via any method of interaction such as for compliance purposes allow and disallow features within the zone such as subscribing to channels or storing files create a standardized web and or social media page for each associated user assign and monitor tasks and projects submit requests and the like.

A zone may be used for intra zone interaction and collaboration with features and capabilities such as uninhibited interaction between some or all zone members shared contacts and directories file sharing and data repositories application sharing and collaboration virtual bulletin board shared calendaring and the like.

Email SMS messages and hand written letters are typically composed without any particular original structure. Users may compose new interaction requests as unstructured or create or use a different structure such as requests assignments invitations notifications forms multiple choice fill in the blank and the like using formats templates and or tools. Recipients of interaction requests may respond according to the structure received such as yes or no a grant or denial of approval with or without added conditions multiple choice fill in the blank filling out a form responding with an unstructured message and the like. If multiple responses are requested of a user a plurality of interaction requests and or messages may be delivered with each requiring separate responses. Received interaction requests may be sorted based on whether a response is requested or no response is requested.

Interaction requests formed as assignments tasks or the like may integrate with a task or project management system. Recipients may accept reject or otherwise respond to assignments or task requests. Requesters may view responses and track progress on tasks and or projects. Tasks and or projects may involve multiple parties such as requesters actors sponsors those to be informed helpers and the like. Authorized and or invited parties may be notified or allowed to interact with the task and or project data and or other parties. Communications notifications other workflows and other actions may be triggered upon the occurrence of certain events or thresholds such as task completion new comments answers to queries attachments or other data approaching or passed deadlines external data and the like. Tasks projects conversations actions etc. may be stored within the interaction server and or local copies may be provided for offline access and other purposes which copies can later be synchronized when online access is restored.

The interaction server may facilitate simple or complex workflows. Users may use built in custom or external tools templates and the like to build electronic forms and processes for a workflow. A workflow process may include a series of steps to be executed by the interaction server. For each step certain conditions may need to be satisfied before the step is executed. For example an accounting department may create an expense reimbursement form and embedded workflow process within the interaction server. A first user may complete the form which may trigger an alert to a manager for approval. The manager s approval may trigger an alert to the accounting department to reimburse the first user. A payment notification may be sent to the first user who may then accept the payment. All parties may retain access to a permanent record of all aspects of the workflow transaction including requests responses dates names approvals denials comments attachments notifications and the like.

The interaction server may be configured to facilitate interaction on a one to many or many to many basis such as when customers interact with a customer service department for example. A plurality of individuals may be granted certain rights to receive and act upon interaction requests received by one or more user accounts such as representatives within a customer service department for example. Interaction requests may be automatically and or manually separated by priority urgency VIP sender and the like. Interaction requests may be automatically or manually assigned to one or more authorized individuals. Once assigned an interaction request may be unavailable to other individuals moved into a queue marked with a certain status and or otherwise categorized or segmented from other interaction requests. Interaction requests may be transferred and or escalated in several ways such as moved up in priority sent and or assigned to different individuals or departments different services etc. Escalation may occur for different reasons including a delay in response time an urgency indicator a VIP sender and the like. An interaction between two parties may be begin in one form such as text and move or change to another form such as when the parties may wish to initiate a phone call video conference or the like. The medium of interaction for an interaction request need not be the same for each party interacting. For example the sender may wish to type or talk while the receiver elects to display video to the sender or vice versa. The sender or the receiver may wish to keep private their personal contact information real identity or other information. The sender or receiver may require certain information to be revealed or shared as a condition of interaction. The interaction server may be used to transfer files share screens engage in real time instant messaging and or collaborate in other ways. Access to a permanent record of each interaction may be retained for each party.

A mass notification system may be configured to send communications to addresses contained in a database of contact information. The mass notification system may be used primarily for urgent and or emergency notification but may also sometimes be used for non urgent communications. The mass notification system may have several significant limitations. The mass notification system may require a database of contact information to be gathered and maintained in order to push the notification to the group but intended recipients are increasingly reluctant to provide personal contact information out of privacy fears complacency and or the inconvenience of having to manage the same information in multiple disparate systems such as one for a city a different one for a school etc. Further maintaining the accuracy of contact information may quickly become be a never ending uphill battle as group members move disconnect or change numbers change email addresses leave the group etc. Additionally if the mass notification system is used for emergency evacuation purposes it may be convenient to populate the database of contact information with land line phone numbers obtained from telecommunications carriers land lines are increasingly being deactivated in favor of voice over IP VoIP and mobile phones which may leave large gaps of missing phone numbers for residents that might require notification. The mass notification system may also be expensive which may prevent use by smaller groups such as small schools small cities small organizations teams and clubs families and the like. A social media tool may allow free communication a plurality of users. The social media tool may lack the database gathering and maintenance headaches of the mass notification system but the social media tool may not provide escalation acknowledgement confirmation of receipt dynamic segmentation and other features used by the mass notification system and which are necessary for effective urgent or emergency notification.

Users may establish one or more channels that facilitate interaction among groups including mass notification. Users may subscribe to a channel and receive broadcasted messages without revealing any private addresses personal contact information their real name etc. Users allowed to broadcast on a channel may thereby be enabled to interact with an unlimited audience without knowing any of the subscribers private addresses personal contact information phone numbers email address real names etc. Interaction data sent or posted to the channel may be forwarded or broadcasted to one or more subscribers of that channel in a plurality of ways including via an application email SMS IM phone calls postal mail and the like. Broadcasted messages may be in a plurality of formats including recorded voice live voice text video announcements requests questions prompts and the like. Subscribers may automatically allow channel interactions to be received without an access code. The subscribers may be able to select how they receive channel messages and may respond to messages using the same or a different method. Channel administrators and or subscribers may be able to send interaction requests to other subscribers of a channel individually to access information about other subscribers and the like.

Channels may be hosted by the interaction server and or channels may be hosted by a separate server and or entity. Users having accounts with the interaction server may subscribe to channels hosted by the interaction server and or to channels hosted remotely. The interaction server may include an API that allows a remote channel hosted by a separate server to broadcast messages to users who have accounts with the interaction server and who have subscribed to the remote channel. In some embodiments the interaction server may authenticate the separate server using the API and route received messages to the user s message center. When the user subscribes to a channel the user s private data and or a trusted list for the user may be updated to reflect the subscription. The interaction server may reject interaction requests from a channel to which the user is not subscribed and or may notify the channel that the user is not subscribed such as by sending a bounce message.

A channel may request or require access to certain private addresses or other data when a user seeks to subscribe to the channel e.g. requesting access to a postal address when attempting to subscribe to a wedding channel set up by a couple to be wed . The requested information may be made available to a channel administrator and or other subscribers such as by creating a directory from the requested information and the user seeking to subscribe may be informed prior to subscribing of who will have access. Admission rules may determine what information is requested or required and any other criteria for admission such as location family relation team affiliation age limit parental permission a limitation on the number of subscribers answering a security question possessing a password and or the like. For example a parent attempting to subscribe to a channel for their child s classroom at school may be required to provide their name their child s name a password confirmation data such as their child s birth date and or the like. A channel may be configured to automatically approve all subscribers satisfying the admission rules and or to require the channel administrator s permission before approving subscribers. The channel administrator may also remove subscribers.

Each subscriber may set their own interaction rules which may be similar to the interaction rules for receiving non channel interaction requests. For example the interaction rules may include which devices should receive the messages whether the channel has emergency rights how urgent messages should be handled including the frequency and order in which additional devices or users should receive the message blackout periods in which messages may be blocked or held until the end of the blackout period and the like. A subscriber may set custom rules for a channel or use default rules. The interaction server may request acknowledgement of receipt of the message and or attempt to confirm delivery was achieved. The interaction rules may determine how unacknowledged messages should be handled. For example some users may not permit a message to be escalated even if it is never acknowledged. Users may stop subscribing to a channel or change their rules at will.

Some channels may allow users to subscribe to the channel with just an email address SMS number phone number and or the like without explicitly creating an account with the interaction server. A channel administrator may add and or invite subscribers to a channel individually or from lists or directories or the like. An application may provide access to an electronic directory or other applications to facilitate the process of inviting subscribers. Users may be notified that they have been invited to subscribe to a channel. Non users may also be invited to subscribe to a channel by sending the non user a button or link in an email message for example or by providing the channel name to the non user and inviting them to search for it online or through an application. A provisional and or temporary account may be created that enables non users to subscribe to channels with or without any action on the part of the non user. By this method all subscribers may receive broadcasts whether through their account email address SMS phone and or the like. Provisional subscribers may respond to broadcasts be counted as part of reporting statistics for the channel etc. Provisional subscribers may convert their provisional account to a permanent account and may be provided with a means to merge multiple provisional accounts into a single permanent account.

Users may be automatically subscribed to certain channels such as a local Amber Alert channel or when the user enters a predetermined area for example. Users may be able to stop subscribing to channels in which they are no longer interested or channels to which they were automatically subscribed or prevent some or all future automatic subscriptions. Users may be able to create multiple channels. Each channel may have a web page and or web presence that may be made available to subscribers and or the public through which visitors may learn about the channel subscribe to the channel receive broadcasts respond to broadcasts see past broadcasts see statistics or other information related to the channel download related files see related video or hear related audio etc. Channels may be found by direct link search browsing and the like.

Broadcasts may be initiated by authorized users and others in a plurality of ways such as through an application or API from a text message email or phone call or through any other form of interaction. Channels may have a designated email or other address where any message received at that address is automatically broadcast on the channel. Subscribers may be permitted to respond to broadcasts wherein their response may or may not be broadcast on the channel. Some channels may permit important urgent and or emergency messages to be broadcasted to subscribers. Messages indicated as urgent may trigger the subscriber s rules for delivery of urgent messages which may be enabled disabled and or customized for each channel subscribed to. For example urgent messages may be escalated until an acknowledgement or confirmation is received. As with urgent one to one interactions urgent channel messages may be escalated in several ways such as attempting multiple devices repeatedly attempting the same devices using multiple mediums making sequential or simultaneous attempts alerting other users within the vicinity alerting multiple recipients until acknowledged etc. Subscribers may also snooze messages to delay escalation. The subscriber may send a confirmation or acknowledgement message to the interaction server to end escalation. The interaction server may provide a confirmation or acknowledgement or indicate a lack thereof to the sender of the broadcast the administrator s of the channel etc.

Some channels may allow all subscribers to broadcast messages to some or all other subscribers and other channels may allow only certain subscribers and or a channel administrator to broadcast messages on the channel. Some or all subscribers may be able to escalate messages back to the channel administrator and or other channel subscribers. Messages received by a channel from subscribers may be allocated and or assigned for handling as described above. Channels may be permanent such as for clubs families associations companies departments schools municipalities and the like or channels may be temporary such as for teams classes weddings and the like. Channels may be used to initiate audio or video conference calls including dialing out to subscribers or allowing them to dial in. Channels may also be used as chat rooms or to instantly query and receive responses from large groups of people such as to receive votes or answers on a live television show or at a stadium. Channels may support question and answer formats such as yes or no multiple choice fill in the blank open ended and the like and may provide real time statistics to the channel administrator and or broadcaster. Channels may facilitate two way interaction between a broadcaster and recipients via multiple methods of interaction including text voice video and the like which may be useful for small groups such as families teams clubs classes and the like. Channel interactions may be recorded or monitored. Some channels may require a paid subscription and the subscription status may be confirmed before a message is transmitted to a subscriber.

Channels may be used for broadcasting newsfeeds newsletters blogs podcasts and the like. Broadcasted messages may include attachments which may be opened by subscribers. Subscribers may have readers and or multimedia players with which they receive and interact with messages sent by the channel. Subscribers may be able to retrieve data from the channel such as private channel data private data from other subscribers private data from a channel administrator and or the like. The purpose of a channel may be to allow subscribers to access private data.

Channels may be used to create directories of subscribers. For example any subscriber to a directory channel may be able to interact with any other subscriber. The directory channel may be set up by a school such as for students a city a state a country and or the like. The directory channel may place restrictions on the types of interaction allowed such as only permitting non urgent written messages and or may require subscribers to reveal predetermined contact information and or to allow certain types of interactions from other subscribers. The directory channel may specify the number of trust denials permitted before a subscriber can no longer interact with other subscribers specify parameters for crowd sourcing of trusting and or the like to protect subscribers from unwanted communications.

A subscriber may also specify rules for how other subscribers to the directory channel may interact with the subscriber including types of interaction permitted limits on the geographic area of subscribers from which interactions are permitted filtering all interactions from the directory channel to a particular folder label and or mailbox and or the like. The subscriber s rules for the directory channel may blacklist and or whitelist particular users groups of users categories of users such as merchant that fit the subscriber s profile interests geographies of users etc. The subscriber may unsubscribe from the directory channel and or may block all interactions from subscribers to the directory channel. The subscriber may choose to have a trust status for an individual user override rules for a group of users comprising the individual user and or the subscriber may choose to be prompted if a conflict arises.

Channels may also allow subscribers to interact with shared data. For example a pot luck style channel may include a list of items that subscribers may take or sign up for on a first come first serve basis e.g. a list of dinner items for a pot luck dinner . Channels may have calendaring capabilities including integrated calendars and or linked calendars from other channels or calendaring systems. Broadcasted messages may have calendaring elements including the ability for subscribers to auto insert events into calendaring systems. Notifications may be triggered automatically when administrators add new events. The administrator may trigger a broadcast by tapping on or editing a calendar event. Linked channel events may have scheduled reminders which may be escalated snoozed dismissed acknowledged and the like.

Channels may also allow for dynamic segmentation of subscribers to enable broadcasting a message to only a subset of subscribers. For example when sending a message a broadcaster may select criteria and the message may be automatically sent only to the subscribers satisfying the criteria. The criteria may include private information that is known to the interaction server but not the broadcaster. For example the criteria may specify that a message is intended only for recipients over the age of 50 even though the channel administrator has no way to determine which subscribers fit that criterion. Criteria may include location e.g. an evacuation order to people currently located in a certain area or with a registered address in a certain area zone including group and or sub group age gender new recent subscribers e.g. users that began subscribing to the channel within a specified time limit subscribers with a particular profile or product interest and the like. The broadcaster may not need to pre segregate the subscribers into groups before specifying the criteria. In the event that the broadcaster sends a message based on conditions for which some subscribers have not specified relevant data those subscribers may be notified that they may have missed channel messages because information was missing from their profile or preferences. Once the appropriate information is entered then the original communication may pass through to the subscriber.

Channels may provide mail merge type functionality to broadcasters. A broadcaster may be able to merge data from a database list or the like into a message. For example a broadcaster may type Dear NAME to reference a name field and populate each message with the name of the intended recipient. The data may include private data of the subscribers stored on the interaction server. In an embodiment the broadcaster may merge data to which she does not have access and she may not be permitted to see the messages produced by the merge process. Alternatively the broadcaster may need rights to the private data to merge it into a message and the broadcaster may be prompted to determine if she wants to request the data from subscribers that do not allow her access. More sensitive information e.g. payment information may be prohibited by the interaction server and or the subscribers from being merged and or may require a subscriber permission before being merged while less sensitive information e.g. first name may be merged and or may not require permission. An application used to compose the message may display a list of available fields and or indicate fields for which merging is prohibited or permission is required.

Automatic messages may be sent by channels and or to individual users. For example automatic messages may be sent at predetermined times as a reminder or alert for a scheduled event e.g. a birthday or anniversary a reminder to vote a reminder to change an air filter etc. or automatic messages may be sent when a predetermined condition occurs e.g. a server crashes a stock hits a certain price a pedophile moves nearby a desired item becomes available for sale on a website a temperature that is being monitored reaches a certain threshold a message is received from a predetermined user any type of alarm or alert is triggered or the like . The interaction server may receive retrieve and or compute data which it uses to determine if the predetermined condition has occurred. The condition data may be retrieved from email calendar data providers servers file servers databases websites web services APIs the message center other channels and the like. For example an aggregator promo channel may forward promotions from the channels of individual retailers. Automatic channel messages may also be combined with dynamic segmentation to send smart messages to subscribers matching certain criteria. For example an automotive services chain may automatically send messages to users within a radius of a service center letting them know that an oil change is required. The date of the most recent oil change may be saved by the interaction server and or the automotive services chain to determine which users are in need of an oil change. Automated mechanisms may be used for broadcasting communications on channels. Automated servers may interact directly with the interaction server utilizing web services or API s or the like eliminating the need for direct human interaction in sending messages.

The interaction server may use location data in processing channel messages and or one to one interaction requests. For example the interaction server may receive location data from users such as location data determined from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver on a client device. An interaction request may indicate that delivery of the message should be delayed until the intended recipient enters a predetermined area such as coming within a predetermined distance of the delivery location. Channel messages may be filtered by location and or automatically delivered upon entering a predetermined area e.g. an emergency evacuation order an advertisement from a local business or the like . For example a chain store may be opening a new location. Customers may subscribe to the chain store on a channel but they may desire not to give their addresses to the chain store. The interaction server may allow the chain store to send a message advertising the new store to all subscribers with addresses near the new store and or whose GPS location comes within a certain proximity of the store within a predetermined time period. The interaction server may use user defined rules or other criteria to select which client devices should receive interaction requests based on received location data. The subscriber s location and or direction and or speed of travel may be taken into consideration when determining when to send the message. For example a local coffee shop may wish to broadcast a promotion on a new product when subscribers are approaching and will arrive at approximately 60 seconds.

A user may be requested to sign in to the interaction server when they enter the range of or connect to a WiFi network e.g. a WiFi network at a coffee shop or hotel . Then even if the user has disabled location aware capabilities such as GPS the user may be notified of emergencies at their location and or the user s interaction rules may allow for intelligent interaction request routing based on the location. A provisional and or temporary account may be created for persons not having an account.

Users private addresses may include one or more postal addresses. Users may wish to receive postal mail without divulging an address and or a broadcaster may wish to send postal mail without having to gather or maintain a database of addresses. A sender may transmit an electronic message to the interaction server intended as postal mail for one or more recipients without the sender possessing the postal address of the recipient s . The interaction server may determine postal addresses for the intended recipient s . If the interaction request specifies a zone for the recipient s and or sender the interaction server may determine the appropriate to and or from address and other branding labeling etc. to use to send the item e.g. choosing a work address or a home address . The interaction server may comprise one or more apparatuses configured to print the message print correctly addressed envelopes with proper postage and stuff the envelopes for mailing. The interaction server may allow the sender to select first class postage priority postage overnight postage or the like. The one or more apparatuses may also be configured to label and or stuff envelopes and or boxes for physical goods that are received by the blind mailing service. In an embodiment the interaction server may send blind mail without using an apparatus by transmitting or otherwise providing access to all necessary information to a third party for fulfillment.

For a user to receive physical blind mail or a blind package where the sender does not know the postal address of the receiver that did not originate as an electronic message the item may be addressed to the user s public address and sent to a central processing location. A bar code QR code and or the like may be used to facilitate routing. Once the item is received at the central processing location the sender is authenticated and the rules for the intended recipient allow receipt of the item from that sender the interaction server may be queried for the postal address of the intended recipient and the item may be mailed or shipped to its final destination. Thus blind mailing of physical items may be achieved whereby the sender need not know the recipient s actual postal address and the receiver need not divulge it. Alternatively a mailing or shipping provider such as the US Postal Service may be provided with tools and or access to the interaction server to authenticate senders and retrieve address information for receivers. Thus the shipping provider may provide seamless blind mailing service negating the need for items to be mailed or shipped twice first to a central processing location and then to the final destination .

A channel administrator and or message broadcaster may be able to view or receive channel related data through a search a dashboard summary reports real time reports a ticker or banner alerts notifications and the like. The channel related data may include real time statistics historical statistics the percentage of users acknowledging receipt of the message the number of subscribers new subscribers past subscribers past notifications responses attachments and the like. The channel related data may also include statistics fitting pre defined or custom criteria such as subscribers over a certain age of a certain sex married living within a specified area with a specific product interest answering a question in a certain manner and the like. The interaction rules for each user may specify how much of that user s information may be revealed in the channel related data.

Prior to the present disclosure online shopping models were not very helpful for localized shopping and often too costly and time consuming for local sellers when considering all the expenses involved in building a website initiating pay per click and or search engine optimization campaigns to drive traffic to the site writing blogs creating videos keeping the website current etc. As a result rather than utilizing online shopping shoppers may have ended up driving to a store calling a store and or looking through the classifieds to find items they may purchase locally. It would be advantageous for local sellers to communicate directly and individually with interested local shoppers at a low cost without requiring the creation of a website. The interaction server may allow shoppers to interact directly and anonymously with sellers without visiting the seller s website driving anywhere divulging contact information and or needing to know the seller s phone number or web address. Further the seller may pay for the service only when directly interacting with a shopper. In addition the interaction server may allow for securely entering into agreements and or making payments.

In some embodiments sellers may bid on bid words by indicating an amount they are willing to pay when a shopper initiates interaction. Sellers may also or instead create a list of bid words by uploading or providing real time access to a product inventory and or other data. The shopper may post what the shopper is shopping for to the interaction server. The shopper may request matches in certain locations such as within a certain radius of the shopper s location. The interaction server may return a list of matching products by comparing the bid words to the post and or by comparing the seller s location to the locations specified by the shopper. The highest bidding seller may be listed first. Shoppers may also be able to search and sort results based on ratings from third party websites. The shopper may click a listing to view additional information e.g. seller information product ratings by third parties and or the like including pictures videos descriptions advertising helpful information or the like which may be available through the interaction server and or through another site. The shopper may anonymously initiate interaction with the seller via text chat voice video and or the like. The seller may not be charged until interaction is initiated. If a shopper s post does not result in any matches the interaction server may save the post until a seller bids for a matching bid word. The shopper may then be alerted to the match. A shopper may also choose to save a post. The saved post may enable additional results to accumulate and additional sellers to find the shopper. Alternatively or in addition sellers may manually search for posts and advertise to those shoppers. Sellers may also be alerted when a shopper s posts match their bid word s but they may not be able to initiate interaction with the shopper.

Interaction requests from shoppers may be answered by the seller and or others such as sales clerks. The shopper may specify a generic method of interaction and the seller may select a specific method of interaction and or device for interacting. For example the shopper may specify a voice communication and the seller may choose to escalate the communication starting with the office phone then a mobile phone etc. until the communication is answered. The shopper and or the seller may reveal their public addresses their private addresses both or neither. The shopper may wish to always interact anonymously with sellers while sellers may wish to always reveal as much as possible. For example within a communication the shopper may be heard by the seller in a voice call or the seller may receive the shopper s written communication without the shopper revealing any private or public addresses while the seller is both seen and heard by the shopper via video conference. The seller may not need a website or to reveal a phone number to interact with the shopper. Instead the seller may have just a phone and or a computer. An app on the phone or computer may be used for interaction in some embodiments. If the seller does have a website the app may also allow the seller to interact with visitors to the website. For video conferencing the seller may show the store themselves product model in which the shopper is interested and or the like while the shopper may elect not to display video or otherwise identify themselves. The interaction server may manage payment detailed below such as a down payment or full payment including escrowing the payment and maintaining a paper trail. The interaction server may also save a copy of any agreements between the seller and shopper. Shoppers and sellers may be able to submit ratings of each other to the interaction server once the transaction is complete.

The interaction server may also be used to facilitate payments between and among users and non users. Payers and or payees may not be required to reveal payment and or private information such as a user s name email address phone number credit card number bank account number etc. to one another. Transactions may not require merchant capabilities such as Point of Sale capabilities. As a result users may quickly and easily make and or receive payments whether to or from other users or non users and untrustworthy users may be prevented from receiving unauthorized payments. For example a potential payee may send a payment request that specifies the amount of money requested a desired payer a desired payment type e.g. credit check etc. and or the like to the interaction server. The payment request may be sent via an application through email to a specific address through an automated teller via touch tone phone and the like. The payee may use a location aware app that automatically suggests payers in the area with whom the transaction may be intended. Once the payment request is made the payer may receive notification of the payment request decide whether to approve the transaction and or designate a payment source amount category description etc. Similarly a transaction may be initiated by a payer attempting to send payment to a payee. For a payer initiated transaction the payer may designate the amount source category description etc. specify the desired payee for example by selecting from a location aware generated list of nearby payees such as the store the payer is standing in and initiate payment. The payee may receive the payment attempt and may then apply it to an agreement invoice purchase order etc. deposit it to a particular account forward it to another payee reject the payment and the like.

The payee may include a generic indication of a desired or required payment source e.g. the payee may prefer funds from a checking account or may prefer payment by credit cards . The payer may select a specific payment source when responding to a payment request. Personal payment and account information for various sources may be saved on the interaction server. Personal payment information may include credit card numbers electronic check information e.g. routing number and account number access and or addresses for online payment services and the like. If the request is approved by the payer the interaction server may submit a request for the specified amount of money to a payment processing system associated with the payment source specified by the payer such as the Automated Clearing House ACH a credit card processing system and or the like. Alternatively or in addition indications of account balances for accounts managed by the interaction server may be updated based on the transaction and may be supplied to the user s . After a payment is completed a receipt or other summary of interaction history may be saved to a storage device within the interaction server on a separate storage medium or the like and may be made available to one or more parties to the transaction and or other desired parties.

Parties to a transaction may select the level of user authentication required. For example before releasing payment a payer may require that a payee re login to their user account answer one or more security questions pass through biometric security receive a form of third party validation and the like. Before the user is permitted to utilize payment and or agreement functionalities extended validation may be performed to confirm a user s identity and prevent identity theft. Extended validation may include vouching by a highly trusted user a credit check receipt of a notarized letter or the like. Users may not be permitted to save their passwords and or may need to select longer and or more secure passwords than normal if they are using payment and or agreement functionalities.

A payment request may be sent as a telephone call text message email notification via an application operable on a smartphone tablet personal computer PC or the like. An authorization response may be made by touching keys during the telephone call sending a responsive text message or email responding via a smartphone app submitting a response using a website voice recognition or other biometric authentication or the like. A pin and or password and or other authentication information and or process may be required to authorize the interaction. The payer may specify approved payees who are automatically approved and or may individually approve or deny payment requests for payees that are not approved. A payer may pre authorize a specific or maximum amount to be paid to a particular payee for a particular period of time or within a particular area. For example to save time at checkout a payer may pre authorize up to 50 to be charged by a store he or she may be shopping in and that authorization may last for only an hour.

A payer s ability to pay may be similarly limited by a parentally linked account or an associated zone. For example a child may be pre authorized by a parent to spend only a maximum of 20 and only to a specified payee or category of payees within a certain distance from home from only a specified account for a specified window of time and the like. Likewise an employee may be pre authorized through his or her associated zone to spend a certain amount of money entertaining clients only to specified payees or categories of payees only from specified accounts within only a specified window of time etc.

A user may attempt to pay or request payment from a user or non user. The non user may receive an email or other message informing them of the request. The non user may be invited to respond to and or complete the transaction with or without creating a user account. The non user may complete the transaction by making payment in any way such as cash check credit or debit card establishing a user account authorizing the transaction with their financial institution through any number of means and the like. The user may receive notification if the transaction was completed or rejected electronically or the user may manually notate the transaction record as to how the transaction was completed. A permanent record of the transaction and all associated events may be stored within the interaction server and copies receipts and or other information may be made available to involved parties.

In some embodiments the interaction server may optionally act as an escrow agent for the transaction. Payment settings specified by the payer and or the response to the payment request may determine whether the interaction server acts as an intermediary. When the interaction server acts as an intermediary the payer may keep their payment information private and need only provide the public address. Also the payer may keep their personal contact information private to allow for anonymous payments. For escrow payments the request for the specified amount of money sent to the payment processing system may designate the interaction server as the recipient of the funds. The interaction server may also initiate and or approve a second transaction to transfer funds to the payee from a source affiliated with the interaction server.

Alternatively or in addition the payer may give payment information to the payee and the interaction server may control transactions attempted with that payment information. For example a merchant may attempt to submit a charge on a credit card. The charge may be automatically denied by the payer s bank. The payer s bank may notify the payer via the interaction server of the attempted charge and or denial. The payer may send a response approving the charge. Then the merchant may attempt to submit the charge again and the charge may process successfully. Alternatively the merchant may attempt to submit the charge a first time and the charge may not be approved or denied until a response is received from the payer. In an embodiment the payer may pre authorize the merchant for a specific or maximum dollar amount. The pre authorization may have time location specified merchant and or other limits. As a backup charges requiring a PIN such as charges to a debit card may be allowed without a response from the payer. The interaction server may save a copy of all payment requests authorization responses charge approvals and the like to provide a paper trail.

The interaction server may allow a user to use their smartphone tablet and or other similar device as a Point of Sale device. A user may avoid waiting in merchant checkout lines by using an application running on their smartphone to scan the barcode QR code and or the like of a desired item and add it to an electronic shopping cart and or complete the purchase immediately. An electronic or printed proof of purchase receipt and or the like may be printed displayed stored or otherwise made available to both buyer and seller by the interaction server. Near field communications NFC GPS and or other location aware and wireless technologies may enable the user carrying the smartphone or other device used in the transaction and possessing the proof of purchase to exit a store without triggering theft detection devices and without the intervention of a store clerk checkout line etc.

The interaction server may also be used in negotiating and executing agreements. Users may wish to agree to a contract of which a permanent record is kept and or one or more users may want approval of an action before that action is undertaken. A storage device may save agreements and or indications of approval. A first user may send an agreement request to the interaction server including a written agreement or a description of an action for which approval is requested. The agreement request may be forwarded to the second user by the interaction server for authorization. Once the agreement request is authorized by the second user or authorized by both users the interaction server may save the agreement request and the time and date of each authorization to the storage device as a temporary or permanent record of the agreement. The interaction server may make the agreement and or a receipt available to both users. The same process may work for more than two parties to an agreement or where multiple approvals are necessary before an action is undertaken.

Users may be able to make changes to an agreement prior to agreeing and a time stamped history of the changes may be saved on the storage device. Exemplary uses of agreements may include an auto mechanic seeking approval to do additional work on a vehicle or two parties conducting a private sale of a used vehicle. Also credit providers and or agencies may request authorization before opening a new credit account to prevent identity theft. The credit provider and or a credit reporting agency may request authorization to open the account. The interaction server may make templates available to the parties for creating the agreements such as a bill of sale template for sale of a vehicle a letter of undertaking an I owe you IOU or the like. For parties without an account with the interaction server a provisional account may be created automatically. The provisional account holder may be sent a link that allows them to manipulate the agreement and interact with the counter party without signing up for a full account. The agreement may be printed and signed once the parties have finished manipulation.

Parties to an agreement may select the level of user authentication required prior to finalization and or execution of the agreement. For example one party may require that another party re login to their user account answer one or more security questions the interaction server pass through a biometric form of security receive a form of third party validation meet in person review identification and the like.

The interaction server may also store personal and other data on a storage device and the data may be available as a web presence. The data may be available over a public medium but access to the data may be restricted. An entity may submit an interaction request specifying data desired from a user. The user may allow certain trusted senders and or access codes to access the data automatically. The user may also or instead require their authorization approval before the data is shared. If the requested data is not stored on the storage device the interaction server may prompt the user to provide the information. The data may include shipping and or billing addresses personal health records demographic information personal contact information advertising preferences browsing preferences authentication data answers to questions and or the like. The user may also authorize an entity to append and or add new data to the user s web presence.

For example addresses and health records may be accessible to entities needing such information. A magazine or newspaper publisher may verify a subscriber s address before sending each new publication. A health provider may download patients health records query patients for new information and or append new information to the record. Moreover the user may select entities to receive automatic updates of the information. When an address is updated at the storage device that update may be immediately available and or accessible to newspaper and magazine publishers with which a subscription is held banks with which an account is held friends and family and the like.

The interaction server may manage directories of contacts or other information shared by the user with other users. Changes to shared private contact information may be immediately visible to other shared and or trusted users and or the new changes may automatically propagate to the shared directories. For personal health records the user may update a personal health record with new symptoms or the like and the updated personal health records may be immediately available to a doctor. The doctor may also submit interaction requests to the user such as medical questions which are appended to the personal health records along with the answers to the questions. Some entities may be given access rights to modify private data and or may be able to submit a request to update the private data. Thus a hospital with access rights may update personal health records and that update may be transmitted to other hospitals or health providers selected by the user.

Users may maintain a profile within the interaction server that may be made available to advertisers. The profile may include advertising preferences product interests demographic information location information user selected interests browsing preferences and the like. As a user browses the internet a browser cookie browser plug in or the like on a client device of the user may indicate the public address for the user and thereby allow a webpage and or advertiser to request and or obtain profile information from the interaction server. The information may be transferred as a highly compressed preferences map. Alternatively or in addition the user may log into an account controlled by or with access to the interaction server when the user starts browsing and the browser may transmit the public address during a request for a webpage or other service. Thus advertisements of interest may be shown to the user and undesirable content such as pornography or violence or entire undesired websites may be blocked from view. However no other private data needs to be revealed for the preferences to be implemented. Ads may also include one or more control buttons that allow the user to update preferences turn off undesirable ads and or the like. A parent account may be able to control the advertising and browsing preferences for a child account to ensure only age appropriate and or parentally approved sites are visited. The profile information may be also be shared with authorized merchants websites and other organizations according to the user s desires. The shared information may be general information applicable to multiple websites and or the information may be site specific. The user may also allow direct interaction requests from the website organization set limitations for interactions and or block interactions at will. Users may allow organizations to ask and receive answers to new questions about their profile and or interests append new sections and or information to their profile and the like.

As an additional functionality the interaction server may store usernames and passwords for a plurality of websites online accounts and or the like. When a user visits a webpage a form filler may automatically fill the username and password into a login form on that webpage. Alternatively or in addition a website may implement an application programming interface API through which the interaction server may authenticate the user. In an exemplary embodiment the user may log into the interaction server and the website may communicate with the interaction server to verify the identity of the user. The website and interaction server may communicate according to the OpenID standard the OAuth standard a proprietary standard or the like. The website may direct the user to the interaction server to log in and or the user may log in first and be automatically authenticated when upon arrival at the website. Once authenticated the user may utilize the website as they normally would.

Authentication and access to profile information may work synergistically to benefit both users and websites. For example the Runner s World website may desire that a user create an account on their website to access desirable content and provide her profile interests and interaction preferences to help them market to her. While the user is an avid runner she prefers not to create yet another online account. Instead when visiting runnersworld.com she may log in with her interaction server account which instantly authenticates and identifies her. The interaction server may also provide Runner s World with access to her profile and product preferences and a direct method to interact with her which she can revoke at any time. Through her interaction server account she grants Runner s World permission to occasionally prompt her to fill out additional preferences specific to running which preferences and answers can be reviewed and maintained within the interaction server rather than the runnersworld.com website. Thus Runner s World gains access to valuable information about a runner and a sure method to interact with her. The user need not create yet another online account retains her privacy and control over what private data Runner s World may have access to and she retains ultimate control over if and or how Runner s World may interact with her. She can now share that same information with additional merchants in the running industry rather than maintaining accounts in multiple places.

The interaction server may also offer cloud and collaboration services and tools. The interaction server may offer calendars word processing spreadsheets presentation capabilities flow charting and the like to users. Users may be able to share and edit calendars and documents collaborate schedule events and the like. A storage device may store calendars documents pictures notes backup files and other files. The interaction server may allow files too large for email to be stored for sharing and or transferred among users. The interaction server may provide language translation capabilities for interaction requests while messages are being composed during transmission after receipt and the like.

 Interaction is broadly defined herein and may include communication interacting with another person s information or files interacting with shared files or workflows interacting via any method described in this application or the like. Interaction requests may include any initialization of an interaction by any mechanism or medium synchronous or asynchronous with or without a message. The term communication as used herein may indicate voice communication text communication physical mail an electronic request for interaction a response to a request an entire record of a conversation or interaction recordings attachments notifications broadcasts responses answers selections and the like. Messages may include written text voice messages video messages any data necessary to fulfill an interaction request or the like and may be structured or unstructured.

The interaction server and or clients may comprise a processor. Alternatively or in addition the interaction server and or clients may be implemented by a computer system. Embodiments may include various steps which may be embodied in machine executable instructions to be executed by a computer system. A computer system comprises one or more general purpose or special purpose computers or other electronic devices . Alternatively the computer system may comprise hardware components that include specific logic for performing the steps or comprise a combination of hardware software and or firmware. Without limitation a computer system may comprise a workstation laptop computer disconnectable mobile computer server mainframe cluster so called network computer or thin client tablet smartphone personal digital assistant or other hand held computing device smart consumer electronics device or appliance or a combination thereof. A server may include a physical server a server cluster a distributed server a virtual server a cloud server a computer providing resources to one or more clients a combination of one or more of the aforementioned and or the like. Some or all of the functions steps and or operations discussed herein may be performed by one or more clients rather than the interaction server. Those of skill in the art will realize possible divisions of operations between the interaction server and the one or more clients.

Each computer system includes at least a processor and a memory computer systems may also include various input devices and or output devices. The processor may include one or more general purpose central processing units CPUs graphic processing units GPUs or Digital Signal Processors DSPs such as Intel AMD Nvidia ATI TI or other off the shelf microprocessors. The processor may include a special purpose processing device such as ASIC PAL PLA PLD Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or other customized or programmable device. The memory may include static RAM dynamic RAM flash memory ROM CD ROM disk tape or magnetic optical or other computer storage medium. The input device s may include a keyboard mouse touch screen light pen tablet microphone sensor or other hardware with accompanying firmware and or software. The output device s may include a monitor or other display printer speech or text synthesizer switch signal line or other hardware with accompanying firmware and or software.

The computers may be capable of using a floppy drive tape drive optical drive magneto optical drive memory card reader or other means to read a storage medium. A suitable storage medium includes a magnetic optical or other computer readable storage device having a specific physical configuration. Suitable storage devices include floppy disks hard disks tape CD ROMs DVDs PROMs random access memory flash memory and other computer system storage devices. The physical configuration represents data and instructions which cause the computer system to operate in a specific and predefined manner as described herein.

Embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory machine readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes described herein. The non transitory machine readable storage medium may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards tapes solid state memory devices or other types of media machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Suitable networks for configuration and or use as described herein include one or more local area networks wide area networks metropolitan area networks and or Internet or IP networks such as the World Wide Web a private Internet a secure Internet a value added network a virtual private network an extranet an intranet or even standalone machines which communicate with other machines by physical transport of media a so called sneakernet . In particular a suitable network may be formed from parts or entireties of two or more other networks including networks using disparate hardware and network communication technologies. One suitable network includes a server and several clients other suitable networks may contain other combinations of servers clients and or peer to peer nodes and a given computer may function both as a client and as a server. Each network includes at least two computer systems such as the server and or clients.

The network may include communications or networking software such as the software available from Novell Microsoft Artisoft and other vendors and may operate using TCP IP SPX IPX and other protocols over twisted pair coaxial or optical fiber cables telephone lines satellites microwave relays modulated AC power lines physical media transfer and or other data transmission wires known to those of skill in the art. The network may encompass smaller networks and or be connectable to other networks through a gateway or similar mechanism.

Suitable software to assist in implementing the invention is readily provided by those of skill in the pertinent art s using the teachings presented here and programming languages and tools such as Java Pascal C C PHP JavaScript Python C Perl SQL Ruby Shell Visual Basic Assembly Action Script Objective C Lisp Scala Tcl Haskell Scheme database languages APIs SDKs assembly firmware microcode and or other languages and tools. Suitable signal formats may be embodied in analog or digital form with or without error detection and or correction bits packet headers network addresses in a specific format and or other supporting data readily provided by those of skill in the pertinent art s .

Several aspects of the embodiments described will be illustrated as software modules or components. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within a memory device. A software module may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine a program a script an object a component a data structure etc. that performs one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations of a memory device different memory devices or different computers which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices. In addition data being tied or rendered together in a database record may be resident in the same memory device or across several memory devices and may be linked together in fields of a record in a database across a network.

Much of the infrastructure that may be used according to the present invention is already available such as general purpose computers computer programming tools and techniques computer networks and networking technologies and digital storage media.

The authorizer module may determine whether interaction requests from the senders are authorized for delivery to one or more user resources associated with the receiver . If the interaction requests are not authorized they may be deleted symbolically represented by trashcan . The authorizer module may also be configured to sort interaction requests among the one or more user resources such as one or more inboxes . If a sender is on a trusted list the interaction request may be sent to a trusted inbox . If the interaction request is otherwise authorized e.g. has a valid access code or the interaction rules specify that all interaction requests should be sent to the receiver the interaction request may be sent to an unverified inbox . In the illustrated embodiment the inboxes are separate mailboxes. In other embodiments all authorized interaction requests may be stored in a message center with tags fields and or the like indicating whether the interaction request is from a trusted sender. In an embodiment the unverified inbox is a holding area not visible to the receiver and a request for the receiver to trust the sender may be sent to the trusted inbox . For a sender without an account with the interaction server a provisional account module may create a provisional account before the interaction request is delivered to one of the inboxes .

The interaction server may include an interaction notification engine . The interaction notification engine may be configured to periodically check the trusted and or unverified inboxes and or a message center to see if new interaction requests and or messages have arrived. The interaction notification engine may store or access interaction rules that it uses to determine how to handle new messages. The interaction notification engine may notify the receiver that a new message has arrived escalate messages until the receiver acknowledges them do nothing and or the like when a new message is detected in the inboxes . When notifying the receiver the interaction notification engine may include the message a copy of the message a preview of the message e.g. a predetermined number of characters from the beginning of the message a link to the message and or the like.

The receiver may access the inboxes and or a consolidated message center not shown to review the messages therein. When reviewing unverified messages the receiver may be prompted to determine whether a sender is trusted. The receiver may or may not be permitted to respond to a message until a trust decision is made. The receiver may be able to respond Yes No or Maybe when determining whether to trust a sender . If the receiver indicates that the sender is trusted the sender may be added to the trusted list and any messages from the sender may be moved to the trusted inbox and or tagged grouped or otherwise identified as trusted. A response of Maybe may partially trust the sender and or provide the sender with limited trust privileges. If the receiver indicates that the sender is not trusted the interaction request may be discarded. If the receiver is receiving undesired messages sent with a particular access code the receiver may use an access code module to disable or modify the rules for the access code. If the receiver is receiving undesired messages and access codes are disabled the receiver may use the access code module to enable access codes.

Some interaction requests may request acknowledgement or response. Accordingly the receiver may indicate to an acknowledgement module that the message was received and or the receiver may provide a response to the request such as an answer to a multiple choice question a yes or no a detailed answer and or the like. The acknowledgement module may indicate to the sender that the interaction request was acknowledged and or the module may convey a response.

At step the interaction server may determine if access codes are enabled. In the illustrated configuration if access codes are not enabled the interaction request may be delivered to the inbox or otherwise made available for review. Alternatively or in addition the interaction request may be deleted if access codes are not enabled. If access codes are enabled the interaction server may determine if the received access code is valid. If the received access code is not valid the interaction request may be deleted . If the access code is valid the interaction request may be designated as unverified and or moved to the unverified inbox .

When the receiver reviews unverified interaction requests and or the unverified inbox the receiver may be prompted to specify whether the sender should be trusted. The interaction server may receive a response indicating whether the sender is trusted. If the receiver indicates that the sender is not trusted the interaction server may block the sender from sending any future interaction requests and delete the interaction request. If the receiver indicates that the sender is trustworthy the sender may be added to the trusted sender list and the interaction request may be designated as trusted and or delivered to the trusted inbox . The method ends upon deletion or delivery of the interaction request until the next interaction request is received.

At step the interaction server may determine whether parent approval is required. The parent may allow certain senders and or access codes to transmit interaction requests to the child without parent approval. If parent approval is not required the interaction request may be made available and or transmitted to the child. If parent approval is required the interaction request may be made available and or transmitted to the parent for approval. The parent may review the interaction request and the interaction server may receive a response indicating whether the parent trusts the sender and or approves the interaction request. If the parent does not trust the sender the sender may be blocked and the interaction request may be deleted . Otherwise the interaction request may be made available and or transmitted to the child. If the parent trusts the sender the parent may indicate to the interaction server that future messages do not require approval or may indicate that all future messages should be reviewed by the parent before delivery.

If a location is available the interaction server may use the location to select a destination for the interaction request. If no location is available the interaction server may use the current time of day current day of the week and or the like and or the interaction rules to predict the destination most likely to reach the receiver . The interaction rules may be learned based on past behavior of the receiver . The interaction server may deliver the interaction request to the selected and or predicted destination.

For interaction requests requiring acknowledgement the interaction server may determine whether acknowledgement of the interaction request was received. If no acknowledgement is received the interaction server may return to step . The interaction server may expand the number of destinations selected and or predicted with each iteration. If an acknowledgement was received the method may end .

The channel subscribers may each maintain a database . The databases may include various information such as private data which may include interaction rules and or personal contact information that is maintained by the subscribers . The channels may retrieve the private data from the databases . Based on the retrieved information the channels may determine how to deliver the message and or interaction request. The private data may be shared with the channels and or interaction notification engine not shown only and not with the broadcasters . Subscribers may share certain private data with broadcasters and may allow one or more broadcasters to use the private data to contact them individually. The same user account and private data may be used by the subscribers to subscribe to a plurality of channels .

The channel and or a system comprising user databases may determine whether the user s database contains the private user data required. If the user s database does not contain the data required the user may be prompted to enter the data. Otherwise the channel may request access to the private user data in the user s database. The channel may receive a response indicating whether the private user data has been entered into the user s database and or whether the user allows access to the private user data. If the user does not enter the data when prompted and or does not allow access to the data the method may end without admitting the user. Otherwise the user may be admitted as a channel subscriber or await final approval from an administrator. In some configurations recent messages may be forwarded to the user and or the user may be given access to a history of previous channel messages. The method may end until the next request to join the channel.

An interaction notification engine may be configured to notify the channel subscriber of new interaction requests and or messages sent to the channel . The channel may notify the interaction notification engine that the interaction request and or message should be made available to the subscriber . Alternatively the channel may deliver the interaction request and or message to a message center for the channel subscriber and the interaction notification engine may check the message center for new interaction requests and or messages. When the interaction notification engine becomes aware of a new interaction request and or message for the channel subscriber it may attempt to notify the channel subscriber .

The interaction notification engine may retrieve the channel subscriber s private data which may include personal contact information interaction rules and or escalation rules from a database in which the channel subscriber maintains such information. The private data may be shared with the interaction notification engine and not with the channel and or broadcaster . Based on the retrieved data the broadcaster the channel and or data in the interaction request and or message the interaction notification engine may determine how to deliver the interaction request and or message to the channel subscriber and whether the interaction request and or message should be escalated. For example a text message may be sent to a feature phone and or a voice message text message chat message and or application message may be sent to a computer a smartphone and or a home phone based on the interaction rules. The broadcaster and or channel may have no visibility into this escalation process.

The interaction request and or message may request an acknowledgement and or response. If an escalated interaction request and or message is not acknowledged or responded to by the channel subscriber the message may be sent repeatedly sent to different devices sent to a third party and or the like. The third party may be a relative or friend of the channel subscriber and or the third party may be a stranger in the vicinity of the channel subscriber . A summary report specifying how many subscribers acknowledged the message what responses were received and or other useful statistics and information may be made available to the broadcaster . The broadcaster and the channel may not have access to the channel subscriber s private data. Instead that information may be shared with the broadcaster only if the channel subscriber explicitly allows it to be shared. The channel subscriber may be allowed to send interaction requests and or messages back to the broadcaster if the broadcaster and or channel settings allow. The channel settings may always allow interaction requests replying to the broadcaster never allow interaction requests replying to the broadcaster permit the broadcaster to decide whether to allow interaction requests replying to the broadcast and or the like.

After a second predetermined time period the notification may escalate to a third escalation level . The second predetermined time period may equal or not equal the first predetermined time period. The third escalation level may be identical to the other escalation levels and interaction may be attempted using the same devices. A fourth and highest escalation level may be reached after a third predetermined time period. Notification may again be attempted through the user s devices during the fourth escalation level . In addition a computer a home phone and a smartphone of a second user may be messaged. Notification may be repeatedly attempted at the fourth escalation level with delays of a fourth predetermined time interval separating each additional attempt. The repeated attempts at the fourth escalation level may be continued until an acknowledgement is received. Alternatively escalation may be ended after a predetermined number of delivery attempts. In other embodiments there may be a different number of escalation levels and or different methods may be used to attempt to notify the user at each escalation level.

When the broadcaster sends her message with the question about marathon training to the interaction server she may request dynamic segmentation so that only subscribers interested in marathons receive the message. The channel may send the message to an interaction notification engine to determine which of the channel subscribers should receive the message. In another embodiment the channel may determine which of the channel subscribers should receive the message and the interaction notification engine may notify the channel subscribers after the channel has delivered the message to each channel subscriber s message center. The interaction notification engine may automatically access the databases to determine the subscribers interested in marathons. The dynamic segmentation may occur without the broadcaster having access to the private data used to determine to whom to broadcast the message. The interaction notification engine may determine the dynamic segmentation without sharing any private data with the broadcaster .

The interaction notification engine may send a notification to the subscribers which may include the message a copy of the message a predetermined number of characters from the message a link to the message and or the like. A first subscriber and a second subscriber may have indicated in their information that they have previously run marathons so the message may be delivered to them. Based on interaction rules in their databases the interaction notification engine may determine that the message should be sent to the first subscriber s computer and the second subscriber s home phone .

A third subscriber may have indicated that he is interested in marathons. The third subscriber may own a small athletic store and may wish to be notified immediately of messages to the channel. The third subscriber may specify in his escalation rules that any messages to the channel should first be sent to his smartphone and if no response is received escalated to his computer . A fourth subscriber may have specified that she does not run any distances longer than ten kilometers so the message may not be delivered to her. A fifth subscriber may also be interested in marathons because she is training for a marathon. The fifth subscriber may want to ensure that she receives all messages from the channel so the interaction rules for the fifth subscriber may specify that all messages should be delivered to the fifth subscriber s home phone smartphone and computer . Acknowledgement response and or dynamic segmentation statistics such as the number of subscribers satisfying the submitted criteria may be made available to the broadcaster .

In one example the channel may request information about upcoming running races from the information server and may determine that a half marathon in San Francisco has been added to the list of races stored in the information server . The channel may send the information to an interaction notification engine to determine which subscribers should receive notification of the information. The first and fifth subscribers may live in San Francisco and may have specified in their databases that they would like to receive messages about upcoming races of interest. The interaction notification engine may broadcast an automatic message about the race to the first and fifth subscribers . The second subscriber may live in San Francisco but not want to receive automatic messages about upcoming races the third subscriber may only be interested in races on the East Coast and the fourth subscriber may only run races of ten kilometers or less. The interaction notification engine may determine from the databases for these subscribers that the second subscriber does not wish to receive messages and that the location and distance are inapplicable for the third and fourth subscribers respectively so the messages may not be transmitted and or made available to them.

An administrator may control rules for the channel . The administrator may allow some channel subscribers to broadcast messages and may not allow other channel subscribers to broadcast messages such as a child in the family. The administrator may also decide to whom each channel subscriber may broadcast. The channel subscribers may be permitted to broadcast to all other channel subscribers a dynamically segmented subset specific individual channel subscribers and or the like. The administrator may be able to change the rules for the channel at will.

In another example the channel may be operated by a school and the channel subscribers may include parents students teachers staff and the like. The school may be able to broadcast urgent messages to parents and students such as a school closing due to a weather emergency. Parents may also be allowed to send messages which may include urgent messages back to the school. The school may allocate and or assign messages received from parents to teachers and or staff for a response. Students and or parents may or may not be permitted to send messages to other students and parents. The channel subscribers may be able to interact with shared data. Thus a teacher may be able to create a parent teacher conference signup request and use dynamic segmentation to share it with only the parents of her students. The parents may be able to see what time slots are available and reserve time slots which may be marked as unavailable immediately upon reservation.

It will be understood by those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the disclosure. The scope of the present disclosure should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

