---

title: Low power and fast application service transmission
abstract: An apparatus, method and system are provided to allow a low power and fast application service transmission (LP-FAST) engine to enhance the quality of service (QoS) and optimize the power consumption of the mobile applications operating in a mobile terminal in a service-aware, bandwidth-aware and power-consumption-aware manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565681&OS=09565681&RS=09565681
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09565681
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140122
---
The present application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 260 106 filed on Sep. 23 2011 which is a national phase of PCT Application No. PCT CN2010 076289 filed on Aug. 24 2010 which claims priority to CN Application No. 200910170474.X filed Aug. 24 2009 and CN Application No. 200910170475.4 filed Aug. 24 2009. The contents of the foregoing enumerated applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to mobile communications in particular to low power and fast application service transmissions in mobile communications.

With the development of mobile computing mobile terminals are shifting from mainly consuming content i.e. downloading to also creating a significant amount of content i.e. uploading . Different mobile applications may have different Quality of Service QoS parameters. For example a video conferencing application may prefer transmission of data instantly or in near real time but a video streaming application may be able to tolerate certain amount of delay in transmission due to caching or buffering. Network components e.g. gateways and routers may be able to inspect packets to from these applications differentiate different QoS parameters and process the packets to from different mobile applications differently. However on the mobile terminal side the QoS parameters of different mobile applications may not be well integrated into the transmission stacks. This is because many mobile terminals use transmission stacks originally designed for computers with direct connections to wired networks which may not be efficient or power savvy for wireless access networks. Examples of these transmission stacks may include the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model and the Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP model in which data generated by the upper layer applications are encapsulated by various lower layers of the transmission stacks. Because of the encapsulation the lower layers of the transmission stacks e.g. the IP layer and or the link layer may not be able to differentiate packets to from different applications that have different QoS parameters. Consequently packets with higher priorities may get delivered to from the network applications behind packets with lower priorities. As a result the QoS of the applications may suffer.

Moreover for today s mobile terminals although computation and transmission may remain to be the two major power consumption sources transmission may account for more power usage than computation especially for the mobile applications that utilizes online services. However the traditional transmission stacks may not be fully optimized to save power while maintaining the QoS. This mismatch may cause unsatisfactory or even frustrating user experience when accessing online services in wireless access networks. Some mobile terminals may try to alleviate such problem by dropping connections immediately after each data transmission to save power. However frequent connect disconnect may congest the signaling channels which in turn may lead to more connection failures.

There have been several partial solutions that use application transparent traffic shaping methods to reduce transmission power consumption. However these methods in general may only address the lower layers of the transmission stacks. Furthermore these methods may not provide a mechanism for the mobile applications to communicate their QoS parameters to all the layers of the transmission stacks. Therefore the savings afforded by these solutions are usually modest.

There have also been several hardware based network stack implementations designed to reduce the central processing unit CPU workload from the software based transmission stacks such as TCP offload engines TOE . However the transmission data rate on mobile terminals may not be high enough to cause the increase of processor usage due to software based transmission stacks to become a major bottleneck of the system. Therefore solutions such as TOE that accelerates the software transmission stacks by hardware may not be effective for mobile terminals.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments in accordance with the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments of the present invention however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present invention are synonymous.

In addition the term data as used with respect to various embodiments of the present invention loosely refers to data generated by various applications prior to being processed by the transmission stack or data in a form that is readily consumable by the applications after processed by the transmission stack unless specified otherwise. The term packet as used with respect to various embodiments of the present invention loosely refers to data being transmitted in each stage of the transmission stacks between the mobile applications and the wireless network unless specified otherwise. A packet may travel through one or more components of a mobile terminal and may be modified by the one or more components of the mobile terminal before reaching its destination. The terms flow data flow stream or data stream as used with respect to embodiments of the present invention are also synonymous unless specified otherwise.

Mobile applications operating on a mobile terminal may engage in communication patterns that are either one way e.g. video streaming or bi directional e.g. remote services for speech recognition. The behaviors of various mobile applications may be different depending on their communication patterns. In order to create an optimal user experience on the mobile terminal it may be important for the transmission stack to be aware of the service characteristics of the mobile applications. These service characteristics may include service types outgoing data data generated by the mobile applications to be transmitted over the wireless network types incoming data data received from the wireless network designated for the mobile applications types data manipulation flags priority levels acceptable latencies target data rates etc which may generally be referred to as quality of service QoS parameters.

According to various embodiments methods apparatuses and systems are provided in this disclosure to allow a Low Power and Fast Application Service Transmission LP FAST engine to enhance the QoS and reduce power consumption of the mobile applications operating in a mobile terminal in a service aware bandwidth aware and power consumption aware manner.

The wireless communication system may also include one or more subscriber stations generally shown as and . For example the subscriber stations and may include wireless electronic devices such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a cellular telephone a pager an audio and or video player e.g. an MP3 player or a DVD player a gaming device a video camera a digital camera a navigation device e.g. a GPS device a wireless peripheral e.g. a printer a scanner a headset a keyboard a mouse etc. a medical device e.g. a heart rate monitor a blood pressure monitor etc. a set top box and or other suitable relatively stationary portable or mobile electronic devices. Although depicts five subscriber stations the wireless communication system may include more or less subscriber stations.

The subscriber stations and may use a variety of modulation techniques such as spread spectrum modulation e.g. direct sequence code division multiple access DS CDMA and or frequency hopping code division multiple access FH CDMA time division multiplexing TDM modulation frequency division multiplexing FDM modulation orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM modulation multi carrier modulation MDM orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA and or other suitable modulation techniques to communicate via wireless links. In one example the station which may also be referred to as handheld computer may operate in accordance with suitable wireless communication protocols that require very low power such as Bluetooth ultra wide band UWB and or radio frequency identification RFID to implement the WPAN . In particular the subscriber stations and may communicate with devices associated with the WPAN such as station which may also be referred to as a video camera and or station which may also be referred to as printer via wireless links.

In another example the handheld computer may use direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS modulation and or frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS modulation to implement the WLAN e.g. the 802.11 family of standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE and or variations and evolutions of these standards . For example the handheld computer may communicate with devices associated with the WLAN such as the printer the station which may also be referred to as laptop computer and or station which may also be referred to as smart phone via wireless links. The handheld computer may also communicate with an access point AP via a wireless link. The AP may be operatively coupled to a router as described in further detail below. Alternatively the AP and the router may be integrated into a single device e.g. a wireless router .

The handheld computer may use OFDM modulation to transmit large amounts of digital data by splitting a radio frequency signal into multiple small sub signals which in turn are transmitted simultaneously at different frequencies. In particular the handheld computer may use OFDM modulation to implement the WMAN . For example the handheld computer may operate in accordance with the 802.16 family of standards developed by IEEE to provide for fixed portable and or mobile broadband wireless access BWA networks e.g. the IEEE std. 802.16 2004 the IEEE std. 802.16e etc. to communicate with base stations generally shown as and via wireless link s .

Although some of the above examples are described above with respect to standards developed by IEEE the methods and apparatus disclosed herein are readily applicable to many specifications and or standards developed by other special interest groups and or standard development organizations e.g. Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Alliance WiMAX Forum Infrared Data Association IrDA Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP etc. . The methods and apparatus described herein are not limited in this regard.

The WLAN and WMAN may be operatively coupled to a common public or private network such as the Internet a telephone network e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN a local area network LAN a cable network and or another wireless network via connection to an Ethernet a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line a coaxial cable and or any wireless connection etc. In one example the WLAN may be operatively coupled to the common public or private network via the AP and or the router . In another example the WMAN may be operatively coupled to the common public or private network via the base station s and or .

The wireless communication system may include other suitable wireless communication networks. For example the wireless communication system may include a wireless wide area network WWAN not shown . The handheld computer may operate in accordance with other wireless communication protocols to support a WWAN. In particular these wireless communication protocols may be based on analog digital and or dual mode communication system technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM technology Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA technology General Packet Radio Services GPRS technology Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE technology Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS technology High Speed Packet Access HSPA technology Long Term Evolution LTE technology standards based on these technologies variations and evolutions of these standards and or other suitable wireless communication standards. Further the wireless communication system may include a wireless mesh network. Although depicts a WPAN a WLAN and a WMAN the wireless communication system may include other combinations of WPANs WLANs WMANs WWANs and or mesh networks. The methods and apparatus described herein are not limited in this regard.

The wireless communication system may include other WPAN WLAN WMAN and or WWAN devices not shown such as network interface devices and peripherals e.g. network interface cards NICs access points APs redistribution points end points gateways bridges hubs etc. to implement a cellular telephone system a satellite system a personal communication system PCS a two way radio system a one way pager system a two way pager system a personal computer PC system a personal data assistant PDA system a personal computing accessory PCA system and or any other suitable communication system. Although certain examples have been described above the scope of coverage of this disclosure is not limited thereto.

In various embodiments the mobile terminal may have a body dimensioned to enable portable usage of the mobile terminal as a client device. The mobile terminal may include a communication interface a processor a low power fast application service transmission LP FAST engine and a memory . Although depicts components of the mobile terminal coupling to each other via a bus these components may be operatively coupled to each other via other suitable direct or indirect connections e.g. a point to point connection or a point to multiple point connection .

Briefly in various embodiments the communication interface e.g. a radio frequency RF physical layer PHY sub system may include a receiver a transmitter and an antenna . The communication interface may receive and or transmit data via the receiver and the transmitter respectively. The antenna may include one or more directional or omni directional antennas such as dipole antennas monopole antennas patch antennas loop antennas microstrip antennas and or other types of antennas suitable for transmission of RF signals. Although depicts a single antenna the mobile terminal may include additional antennas. For example the mobile terminal may include a plurality of antennas to implement a multiple input multiple output MIMO system.

While depicts particular components the mobile terminal may include other suitable components to operate within a wireless communication network. For example the mobile terminal may include a bus interface controller that is coupled to the bus . Further although the components shown in are depicted as separate blocks within the station the functions performed by some of these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits. For example although the receiver and the transmitter are depicted as separate blocks within the communication interface the receiver may be integrated into the transmitter e.g. a transceiver .

In various embodiments the LP FAST engine may include a data classifier a data manipulator a traffic shaper a packet interceptor a data sender and a data receiver and an interface such as a bus interface controller an application programming interface API etc. While depicts particular components the LP FAST engine may include other suitable components to operate within a wireless communication network. While only depicts particular couplings between various components of the LP FAST engine the LP FAST engine may contain additional couplings between various components. Although the components shown in are depicted as separate blocks within the LP FAST engine the functions performed by some of these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be further sub divided into multiple components. Further some of these components may be implemented in either hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

In various embodiments mobile applications operating on a mobile terminal may include applications that are designed to use the LP FAST engine referred to as LP FAST applications and applications that are not designed to use the LP FAST engine referred to as non LP FAST applications .

In embodiments in which the interface is an API which may also be referred to as an LP FAST API the API may be provided to the LP FAST application to communicate with the LP FAST engine . The LP FAST API may allow the LP FAST applications to communicate with various components of the LP FAST engine . The API may allow the LP FAST applications to control its behavior in at least two aspects service manipulation and service description. Service manipulation aspects of the API may allow the LP FAST applications to create a service start a service modify a service and stop a service etc. Service description aspects of the API may allow the LP FAST applications to define the service parameters for a given service. Typical service parameters may include service type outgoing data type incoming data type data manipulation flags priority level maximum acceptable latency maximum data rate or other information related to QoS parameter of the LP FAST applications . In various embodiments the API may allow the LP FAST Applications to specify information related to QoS parameters at the packet level to enable the traffic shaper to do both flow based and in flow QoS control. In various embodiments the list of parameters of the API may be statically defined for a particular mobile platform or dynamically defined by the LP FAST applications . The above list should not be construed as a limitation to the format or the parameters of the API.

In various embodiments the LP FAST applications may communicate with various components of the LP FAST engine via the interface . While depicts the interface being a bus interface controller in various embodiments the LP FAST engine may or may not contain a bus interface controller. In various embodiments the LP FAST applications may communicate with the LP FAST engine via other types of communication methods such as shared memory.

In various embodiments the data classifier may receive outgoing application data generated by the LP FAST applications via the interface or some other means. The data classifier may classify the outgoing data based on the information related to the QoS parameters of the LP FAST applications . The information related to the QoS parameters may be embedded in the application data itself or otherwise relayed to the data classifier via some other mechanisms such as via the interface . The data classifier may classify and or categorize the received application data into one or more service groups according to one or more classification criteria. Each service group may contain one or more data streams from one or more mobile applications. The data classifier may configure classification criteria based on any packet classification scheme known to person s of ordinary skill in the art or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the data classifier may configure classification criteria based on acceleration scheme of the mobile applications. For example a video conference application and a web search application may be classified into different service groups while a video streaming application and a music streaming application may be classified into the same service group. In an alternative embodiment the data classifier may configure classification criteria based on classes of services that the LP FAST applications are trying to access or assign weighted priorities to different types of services. For example high priorities for data streams with low latency requirement and low priorities for data streams with best effort delivery etc.

In various embodiments the data manipulator may perform various operations on the incoming and or outgoing packets data according to data manipulation flags associated with the incoming outgoing packets or the specific mobile application. These operations may include any of compression decompression encryption decryption packetization depacketization etc. Having the dedicated data manipulator to perform these operations may reduce the main processor usage and associated memory operations thereby reducing power consumption of the mobile terminal. The LP FAST applications may set all or part of the data manipulation flags via the API such as encryption decryption compression and decompression. In various embodiments the data manipulation flags may also be modified by components of the LP FAST engine . For example data manipulation flags for packetization and depacketization may be set by the data manipulator . The data manipulator may perform each operation on an individual data stream and or multiple data streams.

In various embodiments the data manipulator may perform these operations in a context aware fashion i.e. service aware bandwidth aware and or power consumption aware. The data manipulator may be service aware by performing these operations based on the information related to the QoS parameters of the LP FAST applications . The data manipulator may be bandwidth aware by performing these operations according to network bandwidth status feedback received from the traffic shaper . For example when the available bandwidth is below a predetermined bandwidth threshold the data manipulator may reduce the transmission data rate of the LP FAST Applications . The data manipulator may be power consumption aware by performing these operations according to feedback received from external power monitors not shown in . For example when the power supply is below a predetermined power threshold the data manipulator may reduce both computational resource consumption and transmission data rate. In various embodiments the data manipulator may make different adjustments on different data streams according to respective QoS level and priority of the different data streams.

In various embodiments the task management module may receive a transmission command from the main processor via a bus interface controller coupled to the main processor not shown in and the LP FAST engine . The transmission command may contain information related to the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications which may include data manipulation flags set by the LP FAST applications . In addition the transmission command may contain information related to incoming data designated for LP FAST applications to be received from the wireless network. The task management module may provide the transmission command to the task registry .

In various embodiments the task registry may receive the transmission command from the task management module obtain the information related to the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications and or information related to the incoming data to be received and generate a transmission task.

In various embodiments the data divider module may detect or otherwise be notified of the generated transmission task and obtain the information related to the outgoing data via the task management module . The data divider module may obtain the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications via the bus interface controller . Depending on the size of the outgoing data the data divider module may divide the outgoing data into one or more outgoing packets that are suitably sized for network transmission. In various embodiments the data divider module may also group one or more outgoing data into a single outgoing packet.

In various embodiments the data packetization module may packetize the one or more outgoing packets based on the transmission protocols. In one example the data packetization module may packetize the outgoing data based on Real Time Protocol RTP User Data Protocol UDP and or IP. The data packetization module may packetize the outgoing packets based on other network transmission protocol. The packetized data may be forwarded to a transmitter such as the data sender of for transmission over the wireless network.

In various embodiments the data depacketization module may depacketize incoming packets received from a receiver such as the data receiver of and provide the depacketized incoming packets to the data combiner module . The data depacketization module may obtain incoming packets from the data receiver based on the transmission task stored in the task registry . In one example the data depacketization module may depacketize the incoming packets based on UDP IP. The data depacketization module may check for completeness of the depacketized incoming data under the RTP before the incoming data are forwarded to the data combiner module . In various embodiments the data depacketization module may depacketize incoming packets based on other network transmission protocol.

In various embodiments the data combiner module may combine and or split the incoming packets into incoming data suitably sized for the LP FAST applications to process. The data combiner module may provide the combined incoming data to the LP FAST applications via the bus interface controller .

In various embodiments the data compression module may compress the outgoing packets and provide the compressed outgoing packets to the data packetization module . In various embodiments the data decompression module may decompress the incoming packets and provide the incoming packets to the data combiner module . In various embodiments the data compression module may compress the outgoing data prior to the data divider module dividing the outgoing data and the data decompression module may likewise decompress the incoming data after the data combiner module combining the incoming data.

In various embodiments the data manipulator may further include data encryption module and data decryption module not shown in . The data encryption module may encrypt the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications and the data decryption module may decrypt incoming data designated to the LP FAST applications .

In various embodiments the task management module may determine whether the data manipulator contains any unused transmission channel based on the records in the task registry . If a transmission channel is found available in the task registry the task management module may notify the data divider module to obtain the outgoing data through the bus controller interface utilizing this transmission channel. The transmission channel may support directional or bi directional communication. The data manipulator may have more than one transmission channels. The exact number of transmission channels supported by the data manipulator may be configured based on specific mobile terminals. In various embodiments the task management module may notify the main processor that one or more transmission channels are available. And the main processor may upon receiving such notification issue the transmission command to transmit the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications . If no transmission channel is available the main processor may put the transmission on hold or transmit the outgoing data via external transmission stacks such as external transmission stacks of .

In various embodiments the bus interface controller may transmit the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications to the data manipulator and may provide the incoming data from the data manipulator to the LP FAST applications . In various embodiments the bus interface controller may obtain the outgoing data generated by the LP FAST applications from a data area associated with the main processor of the mobile terminal and may provide the incoming data to the LP FAST applications by transmitting the incoming data in the data area associated with the main processor.

In various embodiments the bus interface controller may be replaced by some other communication means such as shared memory.

In various embodiments the data manipulator may include one or more storage units such as buffers caches or other types of memory that is suitable for storing information transmitted between various components of the data manipulator such as between the data divider module and the data packetization module .

Referring back to in various embodiments the packet interceptor may be coupled to the external transmission stacks . In various embodiments the external transmission stacks may be based on a layered model similar to TCP IP which may include an application layer a transportation layer an IP layer and a link layer . The external transmission stacks may co exist on the mobile terminal with the LP FAST engine so that the mobile terminal is compatible with legacy mobile applications that are not designed to use the LP FAST engine such as the non LP FAST applications . In various embodiments the link layer may include a network interface card NIC and a NIC driver.

In various embodiments the packet interceptor may be configured to intercept outgoing packets generated by the non LP FAST applications . In various embodiments the packet interceptor may be coupled to the NIC of the link layer and act as a separate NIC driver for the link layer . The packet interceptor may intercept outgoing packets from the non LP FAST applications by configuring the routing table of the external transmission stacks so that the packet interceptor may have priority over all other NIC drivers of the link layer . The packet interceptor may route the intercepted packets to the traffic shaper . As such both the outgoing packets generated by the non LP FAST applications and the outgoing packets generated by the LP FAST applications may be managed and delivered by the LP FAST engine . This may reduce the negative impact on the QoS of the LP FAST applications due to the existence of the non LP FAST applications on the same mobile terminal.

In various embodiments the packet interceptor may receive incoming packets from the data receiver . The packet interceptor may determine whether the incoming packets are designated for the LP FAST applications or the non LP FAST applications . For the incoming packets designated for the LP FAST applications the packet interceptor may route these packets to the data manipulator for further processing and delivery to the LP FAST applications . For the incoming packets designated for the non LP FAST applications the packet interceptor may route these packets to the external transmission stacks for example to the IP layer which in turn may deliver these packets to the non LP FAST application . In various embodiments the packet interceptor may differentiate the incoming packets designated for the LP FAST applications or the non LP FAST applications by the designation port numbers of the incoming packets.

In various embodiments the packet interceptor may apply one or more priority settings on the incoming outgoing packets for the LP FAST applications and or the non LP FAST applications to improve or maintain their respective QoS.

In various embodiments the traffic shaper may reorder the incoming outgoing packets in a service aware bandwidth aware and power consumption aware fashion. The traffic shaper may receive information related to QoS of the LP FAST applications as embedded in the incoming outgoing packets or via the data manipulator the data classifier and or from the LP FAST applications directly via bus interface controller or some other means. The traffic shaper may receive the outgoing packets from the data manipulator for the LP FAST applications and the packet interceptor for the non LP FAST applications and may receive the incoming packets from the data interceptor . The traffic shaper may rearrange the delivery orders of the incoming outgoing packets based on the information related to QoS of the LP FAST applications . For example the traffic shaper may reorder outgoing packets so that the outgoing packets generated by applications with higher QoS requirements may be delivered over the wireless network prior to outgoing packets generated by applications with lower QoS requirements even though the outgoing packets may be first generated by applications with lower QoS requirements. Similarly the traffic shaper may reorder incoming packets so that the incoming packets designated for applications with higher QoS requirements may be delivered prior to the incoming packets designated for applications with lower QoS requirements.

In various embodiments for packets to from the non LP FAST applications that do not have associated QoS information the traffic shaper may inspect these packets for known protocols and may associate various QoS levels to these packets. In various embodiments the traffic shaper may or may not need to inspect each individual packet. The traffic shaper may selectively inspect one or more of these packets and associate QoS levels for a stream of these packets. In various embodiments the traffic shaper may selectively associate different QoS levels to various packets to from the non LP FAST applications based on their respective protocols or may associate all of these packets the same QoS level as best effort packets or a combination of the two.

In various embodiments the traffic shaper may receive bandwidth status updates from the data sender and power status updates from the external power monitors. The traffic shaper may delay the time of submitting a packet to the data sender for transmission based on the information related to QoS of the LP FAST applications the bandwidth information and the power information. In various embodiments the traffic shaper may provide both flow based and or in flow QoS control of the incoming outgoing packets.

Some mobile terminals may drop connections immediately after each data transmission to save power. However frequent connect disconnect may cause congestion in the signaling channel which may lead to connection failures. In various embodiments the traffic shaper may group scattered packets into bursts to enable the transmitter such as the transmitter illustrated in to enter power saving sleep mode longer and more regularly. The traffic shaper may reduce the overhead of frequent connect disconnect thereby reducing network congestion and connection failures.

In various embodiments the traffic shaper may also get status feedback e.g. success or failure from the data sender on transmission of packets. The traffic shaper may collect such information over time and analyze such information to produce real time bandwidth information which may be provided to the data manipulator periodically or on demand.

In various embodiments the data sender may provide outgoing packets to external wireless network device drivers . The external wireless device drivers may be based on WiFi or IEEE 802.11 standard IEEE std. 802.11 2007 published in Mar. 20 2007 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX etc. The external wireless network device drivers may be software device drivers or hardware device drivers. In various embodiments the data sender may detect status of the wireless network and may re transmit the outgoing packets if the outgoing packets were not transmitted successfully.

In various embodiments the data receiver may receive incoming packets from the external wireless network device drivers . The data receiver may forward the incoming packets to the packet interceptor . In various embodiments the data receiver may request the sender of the incoming packets to re transmit one or more of the incoming packets based on feedback from various components of the LP FAST engine such as the data manipulator .

In various embodiments various components of the LP FAST engine such as the data classifier the data manipulator the traffic shaper the packet interceptor the data sender and the data receiver may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In various embodiments various components of the LP FAST engine may be implemented as a virtual machine on the mobile terminal .

Additionally computing system may include tangible non transitory mass storage devices such as diskette hard drive compact disc read only memory CDROM and so forth input output devices such as keyboard cursor control and so forth . The elements may be coupled to each other via system bus which represents one or more buses. In the case of multiple buses they are bridged by one or more bus bridges not shown .

Each of these elements may perform its conventional functions known in the art. In particular system memory and mass storage may be employed to store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing one or more operating systems drivers applications and so forth herein collectively denoted as .

The permanent copy of the programming instructions may be placed into permanent storage in the factory or in the field through for example a distribution medium not shown such as a compact disc CD or through communication interface from a distribution server not shown . That is one or more distribution media having an implementation of the agent program may be employed to distribute the agent and program various computing devices.

The remaining constitution of these elements are known and accordingly will not be further described.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that the embodiments of the present invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

