---

title: Sabots for rifled guns
abstract: A sabot petal having an axis parallel to or coinciding with the launch axis. The sabot petal is formed from a plurality of stacked sheets of composite material consisting of a fiber reinforcement and a polymer resin matrix. Each composite sheet is in a plane rotationally offset from the meridional plane which is defined by the launch axis and radial axis of the sabot petal's cylindrical coordinate system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09052173&OS=09052173&RS=09052173
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09052173
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140127
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to application Ser. No. 13 530 319 titled Sabot filed on Jun. 22 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein and further claims benefit of U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 499 774 titled Sabots for Rifled Guns filed on Jun. 22 2011 listing Michael A. Minnicino II as a sole inventor the entire contents including all attachments and appendices of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates to launch packages that feature sabots to gun launch sub caliber projectiles and penetrators.

Sabots have been long used especially in military applications to fire a projectile from a gun that is smaller than the bore diameter of the gun. Since the projectile is smaller than the diameter of the gun it is necessary to trap the propellant gases inside the gun and behind the projectile while the projectile travels along the length of the gun. In order to achieve this a sabot comprised of a number of petals is disposed around the projectile while an obturator around the petal ideally sealingly engages the internal bore of the gun. Once the projectile with the sabot exits from the gun the sabot petals separate from the projectile so that only the projectile continues from the gun to the target.

In order to maximize the projectile velocity previously known sabots have utilized composite materials adhered together and then machined or otherwise constructed to form the sabot petal. In one previously known sabot a plurality of composite sheets of the same length and thickness are cut to differing widths and are stacked one upon the other such that the stacked sheets form a wedge. A number of wedges are then adhered together by a resin matrix to form a sabot petal so that the center sheet of composite material of each wedge lies in a radial plane. The shape of the sabot petal is then formed for example by turning the composite material on a lathe and then machining the sabot petal to the desired diameters. At least two and typically three or more petals then form the sabot.

Many of the previously known sabots were intended for use with a smooth bore gun barrel. Consequently upon firing the sabot is not subjected to large torsional loads.

Conversely if the sabot is launched from a rifled barrel the entire sabot is subjected to torsional loads due to the barrel rifling. For sabots constructed from sheets of composite material the torsional load imposed during launch upon the sabot petal has been known to delaminate which can lead to not only inaccurate targeting of the projectile but even safety issues if the delamination is severe.

The present invention provides a sabot which overcomes the above mentioned disadvantages of the previously known sabots.

In brief the launch package of the present invention includes the sabot and an elongated sub projectile. Sabot petals are then mounted around the sub projectile so that the axis of the sub projectile and sabot petals is parallel to or coincides with the launch axis from the gun.

The sabot petal is constructed from a plurality of wedges each formed from stacked sheets of composite material comprised of the fiber reinforcement and polymer resin matrix. Each sheet of composite material lies in a plane that is rotationally offset from the meridional plane of the cylindrical coordinate system defined by the launch axis of the gun and the arbitrary and orthogonal radial axis where the cylindrical axial axis is collinear with the axis of the gun. The rotational offset between the composite material plane and the meridional plane is the preset angle. This preset angle for the rear portion of the sabot rear of the slipband or obturator preferably is in a direction opposite from the direction of rotation of the sabot during launch through a rifled gun bore. The preset angle for the forward portion of the sabot may be in the same direction as the sabot rotation during launch through a rifled gun bore. Thus in certain embodiments the present angle in the forward portion is in the opposite direction of the preset angle in the rear portion of the sabot. In practice the small angular offset of the sheets of composite material from the radius of the sabot petal is sufficient to resist delamination of the sabot petal during launch from a rifled gun barrel. Typically the angular offset is in the range of 1 15 degrees.

In a modification of the invention in order to further protect the sabot petal from delamination during launch a metal bulkhead overwrap is disposed around the projectile at the bulkhead or location of the obturator. This metal bulkhead overwrap furthermore may be splined to the projectile so that the bulkhead overwrap rotates in unison with the projectile. By providing such a hybrid sabot i.e. a sabot with both the metal overwrap and the composite petal the torsional load on the composite petal of the sabot is greatly reduced during launch.

With reference first to a preferred embodiment of a sabot according to the present invention is illustrated as a component of a launch package consisting of a sabot a sub projectile and a slipband . The launch package includes an elongated projectile or penetrator having an impact end and a tail end . A fin set is attached to the tail end of the sub projectile . The sub projectile can be constructed of any suitable material such as a dense metal or dense metal alloy.

The launch package is adapted to be launched from a gun barrel along a predetermined launch axis. This launch axis is parallel to or coincides with an axis of the sub projectile .

The diameter of the sub projectile is less than the inside diameter of the gun bore used to launch the launch package . Consequently the launch package includes a sabot which is comprised of a number of petals that encase at least a portion of the sub projectile .

With reference still to the sabot petal includes a bulkhead having an outside diameter substantially the same or slightly less than the internal bore of the gun used to launch the launch package . The sabot petal also includes a bourrelet which also has an outside diameter substantially the same or slightly less than the gun bore used to launch the launch package .

The bulkhead carries the slipband obturator for the sabot . As best shown in in order to obtain a good fluid seal between the bulkhead and the internal bore of the gun a bandseat having an outer annular surface is disposed within a recess extending annularly around the bulkhead . A slipband obturator capable of rotation relative to the bandseat is then disposed within the bandseat . A portion of the outer periphery of the slipband engages the inner bore of the rifle to seal the slipband and thus the sabot petal to the gun bore. Slipband furthermore may take various cross sectional shapes such as the trapezoidal shape illustrated in .

With reference now to each sabot petal is preferably formed from a plurality of circumferentially spaced wedges each wedge formed by a plurality of stacked composite sheets or laminae that are adhered together to form the petal by a cured polymer matrix or another adhesive composition. After the wedges are adhered together the sabot petal may undergo further machining such as by lathe machining to form the outer periphery of the sabot petal . The actual diameter of the wedges after final machining will of course vary from the forward ramp and to a tail end of the petal .

Each wedge is substantially identical to the other wedges . Consequently only a single wedge will be described in detail it being understood that a similar description will also apply to the remaining wedges .

With reference then to the wedge is constructed from a plurality of sheets of a composite material. The sheets of composite material are adhered together by the cured polymer resin matrix component of the composite material.

The sheets furthermore are oriented so that their plane normal is not orthogonal to the radial axis of the sabot . Specifically the sheets are oriented so that their plane normal is not orthogonal to the meridional plane defined by the sabot s radial and axial axes nor parallel to the meridional plane defined by the sabot s radial and axial axes. Thus the sheets are not radially oriented nor perpendicularly oriented to the axis of the sabot and are offset from the radial axis of the sabot by a specific angle. Additionally the plane of each sheet is purposely angularly offset from a radial axis of the sabot axis by a preset angular amount . In other words the sheets are oriented in a plane that is rotated relative to the meridional plane defined by the radial and axial axes of the sabot petal. The angle between the composite plane containing the individual sheets and the meridional plane is the preset angle . This preset angular amount a is preferably in the range of from about 1 to about 20 degrees preferably in the range of from about 1 to about 15 degrees more preferably in the range of from about 2 to about 10 degrees and still more preferably in the range of from about 5 to about 10 degrees. For example the sheets of composite material illustrated in are angularly offset from the radius of the sabot in the clockwise direction if the direction of rotation of the launch package hence also the sabot imparted by the barrel rifling is in the counterclockwise direction as shown by arrow . In certain embodiments the preset angle the same in the front half and the back half of the sabot and is in the direction opposite from the direction of rotation imparted by the gun barrel rifling. Thus in at least one embodiment the preset angle in the back half of the sabot is preferably in the direction opposite from the direction of rotation imparted by the gun barrel rifling and the preset angle in the front half of the sabot is in the direction of rotation imparted by the gun barrel rifling. In such an embodiment the preset angle for the front half can vary from the preset angle for the rear half.

In operation the angular offset a of the sheets of composite material relative to the sabot radial axis has been found to effectively prevent delamination of the sheets of composite material during the gun launch of the sabot. Immediately following launch the individual sabot petals separate from the sub projectile in the conventional fashion.

It has been observed that even though the slipband may rotate at a faster speed than the sabot the friction between the slipband and the bandseat is sufficient to rotatably drive the launch package and thus create a torsional load on the sabot and therefore each of the sabot petals .

In order to further reduce the torsional load on the sabot petal as best shown in the sabot petal optionally includes an annular channel which extends around the periphery of the bulkhead thus exposing a short axial section of the sub projectile . This axial section of the sub projectile furthermore includes a plurality of splines .

A metal bulkhead overwrap section is disposed within the bulkhead channel . Preferably the bulkhead overwrap assembly is constructed in multiple for example three separate bulkhead sections each of which extends for 120 degrees. Multiple bulkhead sections are needed to enable the bulkhead overwrap to discard upon firing.

Each bulkhead overwrap section preferably comprises a bulkhead arch made of metal which extends around the outer periphery of the bulkhead . A V spar also made of metal is then secured to the bulkhead arch by any conventional means such as screws . The combination of the metal V spar and metal bulkhead arch provides a rigid and yet relatively lightweight construction.

All bulkhead overwrap sections are preferably secured to the sub projectile against rotation. In order to accomplish this the V spar of each section preferably includes a plurality of longitudinally extending splines which mesh with like shaped splines formed in the sub projectile . A slipband is then disposed over the assembly of bulkhead overwrap sections to hold the bulkhead overwrap sections together in addition to holding the sabot petals together. Alternatively the splines on the sub projectile are annular and functionally driven by the splines on the bulkhead overlap.

In practice any torsional load imposed by the slipband on the assembly of bulkhead overwrap sections is transmitted directly to the sub projectile rather than the sabot petal . As such the possibility of delamination of the sabot petal caused by the torsional load of a rifled gun barrel during launch is decreased.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a simple yet effective sabot which is particularly useful in military applications. Having described my invention however many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

