---

title: Cable reader snippets and postboard
abstract: Various systems and methods are provided that allow reviewers to quickly save, identify, retrieve, and share communications. For example, systems and methods described herein may allow a reviewer to store at least a portion of a communication, called a snippet, in a postboard. For example, a reviewer can highlight a portion of the content of a communication. Once the portion is highlighted, the reviewer can select a snippet command, which stores the highlighted portion in the postboard. Each snippet stored in a postboard includes at least a portion of the content that was highlighted and a link to the communication from which the snippet originates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477372&OS=09477372&RS=09477372
owner: Palantir Technologies Inc.
number: 09477372
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140715
---
This application claims a priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 863 814 filed on Aug. 8 2013 and titled CABLE READER SNIPPETS AND POSTBOARD which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems and techniques for data integration analysis and visualization.

Commercial entities law firms government entities and others gather and process an enormous amount of information. Some of the information gathered and processed is in the form of electronic messages or other such communications. These communications are generated by employees contractors or clients and are sent to reviewers e.g. analysts other employees other contractors other clients etc. for review.

In conventional systems reviewers can locally save or store received communications for later analysis. However because of the enormous amount of information gathered and processed it can be difficult for reviewers to quickly save or store each and every communication that the reviewer would like to analyze at a later time. In fact even once the communications are saved or stored it can be time consuming for a reviewer to identify the location of a stored communication and or the content of a stored communication. The time consuming nature of conventional systems may be exacerbated if a reviewer would like to share a communication with another reviewer.

The systems methods and devices described herein each have several aspects no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes. Without limiting the scope of this disclosure several non limiting features will now be discussed briefly.

A message reader snippet and postboard system is disclosed herein that allows reviewers to quickly save identify retrieve and share communications. For example the message reader snippet and postboard system described herein may allow a reviewer to store at least a portion of a communication called a snippet in a postboard.

In one embodiment a reviewer can highlight a portion of the content of a communication. Once the portion is highlighted the reviewer can select a snippet command which stores the highlighted portion in the postboard. Each snippet stored in a postboard may include at least a portion of the content that was highlighted and a link to the communication from which the snippet originates. In some embodiments only the reviewer that generated the snippet can view the postboard. In other embodiments the postboard can be shared with other reviewers such as based on sharing permissions. For example certain communications may carry a higher access or clearance level than other communications. Thus the access or clearance level carried by each reviewer determines what each respective reviewer can view in the shared postboard. In some embodiments a reviewer that creates a snippet may set access rights such as by restricting access to a group of reviewers working on a related project. Accordingly the message reader snippet and postboard system advantageously enables reviewers to quickly save identify retrieve and share communications.

One aspect of the disclosure provides a computing system configured to display a large amount of dynamically updating data. In this embodiment the computing system comprises a network interface that is coupled to a data network for receiving and transmitting one or more packet flows. The computing system further comprises a computer processor. The computing system further comprises a computer readable storage medium storing program instructions configured for execution by the computer processor in order to cause the computing system to access a first confidential message wherein the first confidential message comprises text display the first confidential message in a first view receive a first selection of a portion of the text of the first confidential message in response to a first reviewer selecting the portion of the text of the first confidential message using a cursor receive a second selection of a snip command while the portion of the text is selected store the portion of the text of the first confidential message and a link to the first confidential message in a postboard shared with a second reviewer display at least a portion of the postboard in a second view accessible by the first reviewer and display at least a portion of the postboard in a third view accessible by the second reviewer.

The computing system of the preceding paragraph can have any sub combination of the following features where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to display the portion of the text of the first confidential message and the link to the first confidential message in the second view and not display the portion of the text of the first confidential message and the link to the first confidential message in the third view where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to display the portion of the text of the first confidential message and the link to the first confidential message in the second view and display a message that the portion of the text of the first confidential message and the link to the first confidential message is not available for viewing in the third view where the first confidential message is associated with a first access level the first reviewer is associated with the first access level and the second reviewer is associated with a second access level that is lower than the first access level where the one or more stored program instructions further cause the processor to receive a third selection of a second postboard after receiving the first selection wherein the second postboard is shared with the second reviewer and store the portion of the text of the first confidential message and the link to the first confidential message in the second postboard in response to receiving the second selection where the second selection is received in response to the first reviewer selecting a key command while the portion of the text of the first confidential message is selected and where the cursor comprises at least one of a mouse pointer or a finger of the first reviewer.

Another aspect of this disclosure provides a computer implemented method of displaying a large amount of dynamically updating data. In this embodiment the computer implemented method comprises as implemented by one or more computer systems comprising computer hardware and memory the one or more computer systems configured with specific executable instructions accessing a first message wherein the first message comprises text displaying the first message in a first view receiving a first selection of a portion of the text of the first message in response to a first user selecting the portion of the text of the first message using a cursor receiving a second selection of a snip command while the portion of the text is selected storing the portion of the text of the first message and a link to the first message in a postboard shared with a second user displaying at least a portion of the postboard in a second view accessible by the first user and displaying at least a portion of the postboard in a third view accessible by the second user.

The computer implemented method of the preceding paragraph can have any sub combination of the following features where the computer implemented method further comprises displaying the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the second view and not displaying the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the third view where the computer implemented method further comprises displaying the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the second view and displaying a second message that the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message is not available for viewing in the third view where the first message is associated with a first access level the first user is associated with the first access level and the second user is associated with a second access level that is lower than the first access level where the computer implemented method further comprises receiving a third selection of a second postboard after receiving the first selection wherein the second postboard is shared with the second user and storing the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the second postboard in response to receiving the second selection where receiving a second selection comprises receiving the second selection in response to the first user selecting a key command while the portion of the text of the first message is selected and where the cursor comprises at least one of a mouse pointer or a finger of the first user.

Another aspect of this disclosure provides a non transitory computer readable medium comprising one or more program instructions recorded thereon the instructions configured for execution by a computing system comprising one or more processors in order to cause the computing system to access a first message wherein the first message comprises text display the first message in a first view receive a first selection of a portion of the text of the first message receive a second selection of a snip command while the portion of the text is selected store the portion of the text of the first message and a link to the first message in a postboard shared with a second reviewer display at least a portion of the postboard in a second view accessible by the first reviewer and display at least a portion of the postboard in a third view accessible by the second reviewer.

The non transitory computer readable medium of the preceding paragraph can have any sub combination of the following features where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to display the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the second view and not display the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the third view where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to display the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the second view and display a second message that the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message is not available for viewing in the third view where the first message is associated with a first access level the first user is associated with the first access level and the second user is associated with a second access level that is lower than the first access level where the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to receive a third selection of a second postboard after receiving the first selection wherein the second postboard is shared with the second user and store the portion of the text of the first message and the link to the first message in the second postboard in response to receiving the second selection and where the second selection is received in response to the first user selecting a key command while the portion of the text of the first message is selected.

Described herein are various systems and methods that allow reviewers to quickly save identify retrieve and share communications. For example systems and methods described herein may allow a reviewer to store at least a portion of a communication called a snippet in a postboard. For example a reviewer can highlight a portion of the content of a communication. Once the portion is highlighted the reviewer can select a snippet command which stores the highlighted portion in the postboard. Each snippet stored in a postboard includes at least a portion of the content that was highlighted and a link to the communication from which the snippet originates. In some embodiments only the reviewer that generated the snippet can view the postboard. In other embodiments the postboard can be shared with other reviewers such as based on sharing permissions. For example certain communications may carry a higher access or clearance level than other communications. Thus the access or clearance level carried by each reviewer determines what each respective reviewer can view in the shared postboard. In some embodiments a reviewer that creates a snippet may set access rights such as by restricting access to a group of reviewers working on a related project. In this way reviewers can quickly save identify retrieve and share communications.

In order to facilitate an understanding of the systems and methods discussed herein a number of terms are defined below. The terms defined below as well as other terms used herein should be construed to include the provided definitions the ordinary and customary meaning of the terms and or any other implied meaning for the respective terms. Thus the definitions below do not limit the meaning of these terms but only provide exemplary definitions.

Ontology Stored information that provides a data model for storage of data in one or more databases. For example the stored data may comprise definitions for object types and property types for data in a database and how objects and properties may be related. Database A broad term for any data structure for storing and or organizing data including but not limited to relational databases Oracle database mySQL database etc. spreadsheets XML files and text file among others. Snippet At least a portion of the content e.g. text of a message e.g. a confidential message and or a link to the message from which the portion of the content originates. For example a snippet can be the highlighted portion of the text of a message and a link to the message. Postboard A software facility such as a database that can store snippets. Postboard may also refer to a GUI that displays data stored in such a database. For example a postboard may display at least a portion of the text of a message and a link to the message from which the portion of the text originates e.g. a snippet . Each snippet can be displayed in a list or other layout. A postboard can be associated with access rights e.g. user defined group defined or system defined that control sharing of the postboard and or individual snippets without the postboard. Message Network System Overview

In the embodiment illustrated in the one or more companies which may be implemented by one or more first physical computing devices are communicatively connected to message data server which may be implemented by one or more second physical computing devices over the network . Similarly the reviewer device may be implemented by one or more third physical computing devices and the reviewer device may be implemented by one or more fourth physical computing devices. The reviewer devices and may be communicatively connected to the message data server and the postboard system over the network such as via a secured local area network LAN and or the Internet. In some embodiments each such physical computing device may be implemented with any combination of the components of the example computer system of . For example the one or more companies the reviewer device and or the reviewer device may be implemented in a computer system as a set of program instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium.

The one or more companies represent devices operated by employees contractors or other personnel associated with a commercial entity a law firm a government entity and or the like. The employees contractors or other personnel associated with a commercial entity a law firm a government entity and or the like may draft messages e.g. electronic messages confidential government cables etc. to communicate a field update gathered information a news report and or the like. These messages may be transmitted to the message data server for storage.

The reviewer devices and represent devices operated by reviewers that review and or analyze messages received from the message data server . For example the reviewer device is operated by a first reviewer and the reviewer device is operated by a second reviewer. The devices allow the first and second reviewers to generate snippets and store such snippets in one or more postboards stored by the postboard system via a graphical user interface GUI . For example the devices may include GUI logic. The GUI logic may be a set of program instructions which when executed by one or more processors of the reviewer device or are operable to receive user input and to display a graphical representation of the messages using the approaches described herein. The GUI logic may be operable to receive user input from and display a graphical representation of the messages to a GUI that is provided on a display not shown by the computer system on which the reviewer device or executes.

In some embodiments the GUI logic is omitted. For example in one embodiment the reviewer devices and may comprise an application program or process that issues one or more function calls or application programming interface API calls to the message data server and or the postboard system to obtain information resulting from to provide input to and to execute along with the message data server and or the postboard the processes or one or more steps thereof as described herein. For example the reviewer device or may request messages using a programmatic interface and then a reviewer using the reviewer device or may use process log store snip and or otherwise interact with the messages according to local logic. The reviewer device or may also interact with the postboard system to provide input to provide snippet storing instructions to retrieve links to messages and or to provide or retrieve other data as described herein using a programmatic interface and then the postboard system may interact with the messages according to the postboard system logic.

The message data server may be implemented as a special purpose computer system having logical elements. In an embodiment the logical elements may comprise program instructions recorded on one or more machine readable storage media. Alternatively the logical elements may be implemented in hardware firmware or a combination thereof.

When executed by one or more processors of the computer system logic in the message data server is operable to retrieve and transmit the messages to the reviewer devices and or according to the techniques described herein. In one embodiment the message data server may be implemented in a Java Virtual Machine JVM that is executing in a distributed or non distributed computer system. In other embodiments the message data server may be implemented as a combination of programming instructions written in any programming language e.g. C or Visual Basic and hardware components e.g. memory CPU time that have been allocated for executing the program instructions.

The postboard system may be implemented as a special purpose computer system having logical elements. In an embodiment the logical elements may comprise program instructions recorded on one or more machine readable storage media. Alternatively the logical elements may be implemented in hardware firmware or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the postboard system is part of the message data server and or one the reviewers device . For example the postboard system may be software that is configured for execution on the message data server .

When executed by one or more processors of the computer system logic in the postboard system is operable to receive snippets from the reviewer devices and store snippets including links to messages from which the snippets originate in postboards and provide access to the postboards to the reviewer devices and or according to the techniques described herein. In one embodiment the postboard system may be implemented in a Java Virtual Machine JVM that is executing in a distributed or non distributed computer system. In other embodiments the postboard system may be implemented as a combination of programming instructions written in any programming language e.g. C or Visual Basic and hardware components e.g. memory CPU time that have been allocated for executing the program instructions.

In an embodiment the network includes any combination of communication networks such as one or more a local area network LAN wide area network WAN and or the Internet. The network may be a wired network a wireless network or a combination of the two.

The confidential message is received by the reviewer device from the message data server . The confidential message includes text a portion of which is highlighted. In an embodiment the portion can be highlighted by the first reviewer using a cursor. The cursor may be a mouse pointer or a finger of the first reviewer if for example the reviewer device provides a touchscreen or other such display . In other embodiments the portion can be highlighted by the first reviewer using a gesture voice commands or other mouse or keyboard inputs.

Once the portion is highlighted the first reviewer can perform one or more additional tasks. For example a snip button may appear in the user interface in response to highlighting the portion . In an embodiment the reviewer device is configured to generate a snippet based on the highlighted portion when the snip button is selected. The first reviewer can select the snip button using a mouse command e.g. hovering over clicking on pressing and holding etc. the snip button a key command e.g. pressing the letter s on a physical or virtual keyboard a gesture a voice command and or the like. The ways in which the snip button can be selected are described in greater detail below with respect to .

As illustrated in the snip command is selected via selection of the snip button using cursor . For example the first reviewer can use the mouse to place the cursor over the snip button . In an embodiment placing the cursor over the snip button is sufficient to select the snip button . In other embodiments the first reviewer clicks a mouse button while the cursor is placed over the snip button to select the snip button .

As illustrated in the snip command is selected via the selection of the snip button using finger . For example the reviewer device can include a touchscreen. The first reviewer can use his or her finger to touch and or hover over the snip button . In an embodiment touching the snip button using the finger is sufficient to select the snip button . In other embodiments hovering over the snip button e.g. hovering over the snip button within a minimum distance of the touchscreen using the finger is sufficient to select the snip button .

In an embodiment a postboard is displayed within the user interface . The postboard may appear before or after the snip button is selected. For example the first reviewer can provide an input to view the postboard . As another example the postboard can appear to show that a snippet has been saved into the postboard . In the example of the postboard appears before the snip button is selected. Accordingly the postboard does not yet include an entry for the portion of the message that is highlighted.

In a further embodiment the first reviewer can create a summary of the postboard by selecting summary button . As an example the summary button when selected can create an exportable file that includes some or all of the information present in the postboard . In some instances the exportable file can include additional information not present in the postboard such as the full snippet text the full message text and or other data. As another example the summary button when selected can create a summary of the data included in the postboard and present the summary in a separate window or another window within the user interface .

The snippets in the postboard can appear in one of several orders. For example the snippets can be organized or sorted in alphabetical order e.g. by the first letter in the snipped portion of text by the link to the respective message by the topic or label associated with the snippet by the reviewer associated with the snippet etc. by the topic or label associated with the snippet by which reviewer generated the snippet by the time and or day that the snippet was created and or any combination thereof. Any reviewer that has access to the postboard can change the order in which snippets appear. Changing the order of snippets in the postboard by one reviewer does not necessarily change the order of snippets in the postboard when viewed by another reviewer. In one embodiment reviewers can have preferences for sorting and or displaying snippets in a postboard that are used for display of any postboards by the particular reviewer.

Furthermore snippets in the postboard can be grouped together. For example snippets that share a common topic or label or that were created by the same reviewer can be included in the same group. As illustrated in the postboard includes two groups entries and . Thus the snippets displayed in the same group e.g. entry or may be related. The groups can be organized in the same manner as described above.

In an embodiment the snippets in the postboard can be further formatted by a reviewer. For example the font color size and or aspects of the appearance of the snippets and or the messages can be modified by the reviewer.

The dropdown menu can include one or more entries. For example the dropdown menu includes default postboard postboard postboard postboard A1 A2 and postboard A1 A3 . Default postboard postboard and postboard may be local to the first reviewer such that no other reviewer can view these postboards. Postboard A1 A2 can be shared by the first reviewer and the second reviewer. Thus the first reviewer and the second reviewer can both add snippets to postboard A1 A2 . In addition the first reviewer and the second reviewer may each be able to view any snippets added by the other reviewer. Likewise postboard A1 A3 can be shared by the first reviewer and a third reviewer. Thus the first reviewer and the third reviewer can both add snippets to postboard A1 A3 . In addition the first reviewer and the third reviewer may each be able to view any snippets added by the other reviewer.

In an embodiment the default postboard is selected in the dropdown menu . Accordingly when the snip button is selected a snippet is generated and stored in the default postboard . In some embodiments the reviewer can establish rules for automatic selection of postboards for storing snippets. For example a rule may indicate that snippets of messages associated with a certain organization e.g. CIA are automatically stored to a particular postboard e.g. a CIA reviewers group postboard having predetermined access rights possibly in addition to one or more other postboards selected by the reviewer while snippets of messages associated with another group or topic e.g. Al Qaeda are automatically stored to another particular postboard e.g. a counterterrorism postboard having different access rights.

Merely for illustrative purposes the first reviewer is assumed to have a first level of clearance and the second reviewer is assumed to have a second level of clearance where the first level of clearance is higher than the second level of clearance. Furthermore the snippets and are assumed to be associated with the first level of clearance while the remaining snippets are assumed to be associated with the second level of clearance. Thus in an embodiment snippets and or the messages associated with the snippets and are not available for viewing by the second reviewer. Depending on user preferences e.g. preferences of the system administrator the postboard A1 A2 then may include different content when viewed by the first reviewer than when viewed by the second reviewer even though the postboard A1 A2 is shared by both reviewers.

As illustrated in snippets and are not present in the postboard A1 A2 when viewed by the second reviewer via the user interface . The second reviewer however can view the message because the message is associated with the second lower level of clearance.

As illustrated in the postboard A1 A2 as viewed by the second reviewer via the user interface includes a placeholder in the location that the snippets and would otherwise by displayed. The placeholder can include a message informing the second reviewer that the second reviewer does not have permission to view the snippet and or that the second reviewer may contact his or her supervisor if the denial of permission to view either snippet or is in error.

As illustrated in the postboard A1 A2 as viewed by the second reviewer via the user interface includes a black box in the location that the snippets and would otherwise by displayed. In this way the second reviewer can be informed that there are additional snippets stored in the postboard A1 A2 that the second reviewer does not have permission to view.

In an embodiment multiple reviewers can view the same message at the same time. For example when a link to a message is selected a different instance of the message filed can be opened. As another example a postboard viewed by the first reviewer can include different links than the same postboard viewed by the second reviewer. Thus the message data server can include multiple instances of the same message each instance associated with a unique link.

Beginning in block the message reader snippet and postboard system accesses a first confidential message. For example the first confidential message may be accessed by the reviewer device from the message data server .

In block the reviewer device displays the first confidential message in a first view. The first confidential message may include text that can be highlighted.

In block the reviewer device receives a first selection of a portion of the text of the first confidential message in response to a first reviewer selecting the portion of the text of the first confidential message using a cursor such as a mouse pointer or a finger of the first reviewer. In a further embodiment once the portion of the text is selected a snip button is displayed to the first reviewer. The snip button when selected can create a snippet of the portion of the text selected.

In block the reviewer device receives a second selection of a snip command while the portion of the text is selected. In an embodiment the message reader snippet and postboard system can receive a third selection of a postboard in which to store snippets prior to receiving the second selection.

In block the reviewer device and or postboard system stores the portion of the text of the first confidential message and a link to the first confidential message in a postboard shared with a second reviewer. In an embodiment because the postboard is shared with the second reviewer the second reviewer can also provide instructions or commands such that snippets are stored in the postboard. In one embodiment the second reviewer may be provided an alert that a new snippet is added to the shared postboard.

In block the reviewer device displays at least a portion of the postboard in a second view accessible by the first reviewer. For example some snippets stored in the postboard can be associated with an access or clearance level that is higher than a maximum level of access or clearance held by the first reviewer such as snippets posted by other reviewers. Thus those snippets associated with the higher level of access or clearance may not be displayed in the second view.

In block the second reviewer device displays at least a portion of the postboard in a third view accessible by the second reviewer. For example some snippets stored in the postboard can be associated with an access or clearance level that is higher than a maximum level of access or clearance held by the second reviewer. Thus those snippets associated with the higher level of access or clearance may not be displayed in the third view.

As described above a confidential message is a type of message. Any discussion herein of a confidential message can apply to any other type of message such as a confidential government cable. For example other messages can be confidential or non confidential and can include electronic messages e.g. emails text messages instant messages voicemails reminders or alerts etc. presentations news articles reports letters and or any other type of communication that includes content.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems server computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device or combination of devices that incorporate hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

Computing device s are generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as iOS Android Chrome OS Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 Windows Server Windows CE Unix Linux SunOS Solaris iOS Blackberry OS VxWorks or other compatible operating systems. In other embodiments the computing device may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface functionality such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment may be implemented. Any of the computing device discussed herein such as the companies the message data server the postboard system and or the reviewer devices may include any portion of the components and or functionality discuss with reference to computer system .

The example computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor or multiple processors coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor s may be for example one or more general purpose microprocessors.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM cache and or other dynamic storage devices coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or USB thumb drive Flash drive etc. is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or LCD display or touch screen for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. In some embodiments the same direction information and command selections as cursor control may be implemented via receiving touches on a touch screen without a cursor.

Computing system may include a user interface module to implement a GUI that may be stored in a mass storage device as executable software codes that are executed by the computing device s . This and other modules may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive magnetic disc or any other tangible medium or as a digital download and may be originally stored in a compressed or installable format that requires installation decompression or decryption prior to execution . Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device for execution by the computing device. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules or computing device functionality described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor s executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor s to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term non transitory media and similar terms as used herein refers to any media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such non transitory media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of non transitory media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge and networked versions of the same.

Non transitory media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between nontransitory media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may retrieve and execute the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN or WAN component to communicated with a WAN . Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

To provide a framework for the above discussion of the specific systems and methods described herein an example database system using an ontology will now be described. This description is provided for the purpose of providing an example and is not intended to limit the techniques to the example data model the example database system or the example database system s use of an ontology to represent information.

In one embodiment a body of data is conceptually structured according to an object centric data model represented by an ontology. The conceptual data model is independent of any particular database used for durably storing one or more database s based on the ontology. For example each object of the conceptual data model may correspond to one or more rows in a relational database or an entry in Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP database or any combination of one or more databases.

An ontology as noted above may include stored information providing a data model for storage of data in a database. The ontology may be defined by one or more object types which may each be associated with one or more property types. At the highest level of abstraction data object is a container for information representing things in the world. For example data object can represent an entity such as a person a place an organization or other noun. Data object can represent an event that happens at a point in time or for a duration. Data object can represent a document or other unstructured data source such as an e mail message a news report or a written paper or article. Each data object is associated with a unique identifier that uniquely identifies the data object within the database system.

Different types of data objects may have different property types. For example a Person data object might have an Eye Color property type and an Event data object might have a Date property type. Each property as represented by data in the database system may have a property type defined by the ontology used by the database.

Objects may be instantiated in the database in accordance with the corresponding object definition for the particular object in the ontology.

The data objects defined in the ontology may support property multiplicity. In particular a data object may be allowed to have more than one property of the same property type. For example a Person data object might have multiple Address properties or multiple Name properties.

Each link represents a connection between two data objects. In one embodiment the connection is either through a relationship an event or through matching properties. A relationship connection may be asymmetrical or symmetrical. For example Person data object A may be connected to Person data object B by a Child Of relationship where Person data object B has an asymmetric Parent Of relationship to Person data object A a Kin Of symmetric relationship to Person data object C and an asymmetric Member Of relationship to Organization data object X. The type of relationship between two data objects may vary depending on the types of the data objects. For example Person data object A may have an Appears In relationship with Document data object Y or have a Participate In relationship with Event data object E. As an example of an event connection two Person data objects may be connected by an Airline Flight data object representing a particular airline flight if they traveled together on that flight or by a Meeting data object representing a particular meeting if they both attended that meeting. In one embodiment when two data objects are connected by an event they are also connected by relationships in which each data object has a specific relationship to the event such as for example an Appears In relationship.

As an example of a matching properties connection two Person data objects representing a brother and a sister may both have an Address property that indicates where they live. If the brother and the sister live in the same home then their Address properties likely contain similar if not identical property values. In one embodiment a link between two data objects may be established based on similar or matching properties e.g. property types and or property values of the data objects. These are just some examples of the types of connections that may be represented by a link and other types of connections may be represented embodiments are not limited to any particular types of connections between data objects. For example a document might contain references to two different objects. For example a document may contain a reference to a payment one object and a person a second object . A link between these two objects may represent a connection between these two entities through their co occurrence within the same document.

Each data object can have multiple links with another data object to form a link set. For example two Person data objects representing a husband and a wife could be linked through a Spouse Of relationship a matching Address property and one or more matching Event properties e.g. a wedding . Each link as represented by data in a database may have a link type defined by the database ontology used by the database.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computer systems or computer processors comprising computer hardware. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. The foregoing description details certain embodiments of the invention. It will be appreciated however that no matter how detailed the foregoing appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. As is also stated above it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being re defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. The scope of the invention should therefore be construed in accordance with the appended claims and any equivalents thereof.

