---

title: Material identification based upon energy-dependent attenuation of neutrons
abstract: Various technologies pertaining to identifying a material in a sample and imaging the sample are described herein. The material is identified by computing energy-dependent attenuation of neutrons that is caused by presence of the sample in travel paths of the neutrons. A mono-energetic neutron generator emits the neutron, which is downscattered in energy by a first detector unit. The neutron exits the first detector unit and is detected by a second detector unit subsequent to passing through the sample. Energy-dependent attenuation of neutrons passing through the sample is computed based upon a computed energy of the neutron, wherein such energy can be computed based upon 1) known positions of the neutron generator, the first detector unit, and the second detector unit; or 2) computed time of flight of neutrons between the first detector unit and the second detector unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09151852&OS=09151852&RS=09151852
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09151852
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140604
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Interest in screening capabilities has resulted in significant investment in thermal neutron analysis TNA and fast neutron analysis FNA which probe the nuclear structure of matter rather than the electronic structure of matter as x ray based devices do. With more specificity x ray devices are sensitive only to variations in density and thus fail to provide effective identification when materials include certain light elements. In TNA gamma particles resulting from thermal neutron capture reactions in materials of interest hydrogen and nitrogen are used in connection with identifying certain materials. FNA is a far more powerful technique and measures either the gamma rays from nuclei activated by a neutron beam or the energy of an attenuated neutron beam.

Pulsed fast neutron analysis PFNA has been utilized to perform two dimensional elemental imaging. This technology however requires complex optics and employs a time of flight ToF technique combined with sophisticated high flux pulsed accelerator technology to determine neutron energies. These pulsed systems tend to be relatively expensive prohibiting widespread use.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various technologies pertaining to material identification are described herein. Also described herein are various technologies pertaining to generating a volumetric image wherein voxels in the volumetric image have values that are indicative of elements represented in the voxels. With more particularity material identification can be performed by measuring energy dependent attenuation of neutrons having a range of energies e.g. 1 13 MeV as such neutrons pass through a sample of interest. In an exemplary embodiment information pertaining to elemental composition of the sample can be ascertained based upon resonances in the energy dependent elastic scattering cross sections energy dependent resonances of neutrons that are directed to the sample wherein an energy dependent resonance is unique to a particular element. Given sufficient energy resolution unique energy dependent resonances in the energy dependent attenuation for a sample can be used to identify a wide range of materials in the sample. Accordingly the technology described herein can be utilized in connection with discriminating between explosives illicit drugs etc.

An exemplary system that is configured to perform material identification and imaging based upon energy attenuated neutrons includes a mono energetic neutron generator. Furthermore such neutron generator may be non pulsed thereby allowing for the system to include an off the shelf OTS neutron generator. A first detector is included in the system wherein a position of the first detector relative to the neutron generator is known. The system further includes a second detector wherein position of the second detector relative to the first detector is known. At least one electronic circuit which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA general purpose processor CPU etc. is in communication with the first detector and the second detector. A sample that is to be analyzed is positioned between the first detector and the second detector.

In operation the neutron generator is caused to isotropically emit neutrons having a known energy e.g. 14 MeV . The first detector is impacted by neutrons emitted from the neutron generator wherein the interaction of the neutrons with the detector causes the neutrons to be elastically down scattered in energy as well as scattered spatially . Neutrons emitted by the first detector have energies over a relatively wide range e.g. 1 MeV 13 MeV .

Further responsive to a neutron impacting the first detector the first detector outputs a signal wherein the electronic circuit receives the signal from the first detector. The electronic circuit generates a time tag that indicates a time when the neutron impacted the first detector. The electronic circuit can thereafter interrogate the second detector based upon the time tag generated by the electronic circuit. With more specificity as the position of the second detector relative to the first detector is known a time window in which the neutron emitted from the first detector will impact the second detector if such neutron impacts the second detector is also known. Thus the electronic circuit can perform time gating such that the electronic circuit interrogates the second detector only in the time window when the neutron is expected to impact the second detector. It is to be understood however that the time window does not restrict energy acceptance of the second detector as the window is sufficiently large to allow for detection of neutrons corresponding to all energies expected based upon the down scattering of neutron energies undertaken at the first detector.

The second detector outputs a signal responsive to the neutron impacting the second detector. The electronic circuit receives such signal in the expected time window and assigns a second time tag responsive to receipt of the signal from the second detector. In an exemplary embodiment the time tags can be used to reduce noise e.g. reject backgrounds caused by room scatter accidental coincidences between different neutrons . . . . Based upon known geometry of the overall system the known position of the first detector relative to the neutron generator and the known position of the second detector relative to the first detector and further based upon data collected when the sample is not positioned between the first detector and the second detector energy dependent attenuation caused by the sample can be ascertained. The operation of the system can be repeated for multiple pairs of detectors and multiple neutrons such that the sample is scanned over a relatively wide range of energies. Based upon computed attenuation as a function of energy elemental composition of the sample can be identified e.g. by comparing the measured energy dependent attenuation with energy dependent elastic cross section signatures for particular elements . In another exemplary embodiment a volumetric image of the sample can be generated wherein the volumetric image is indicative of a spatial distribution of elements throughout the sample.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to identifying materials of a sample are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference now to a functional block diagram of an exemplary system that facilitates identifying materials in a sample and or generating a volumetric image of the sample is illustrated. The system comprises a mono energetic neutron generator . In an exemplary embodiment the neutron generator can emit neutrons having an energy of approximately 14.1 MeV and can emit such neutrons isotropically. The system further includes a first detector unit that is configured to generate a signal responsive to a neutron impacting the first detector unit . A position of the first detector unit relative to a position of the neutron generator is known. As will described herein the first detector unit can comprise a scintillator that generates an optical signal responsive to being impacted by the neutron. The first detector unit comprises componentry that converts the optical signal into an electrical signal and the first detector unit outputs the electrical signal.

The system further comprises a second detector unit positioned on an opposing side of the sample relative to the first detector unit . A position of the second detector unit relative to the position of the first detector unit is also known. The second detector unit is configured to detect a neutron thus the second detector unit outputs an electrical signal responsive to the neutron impacting for example a scintillator of the second detector unit .

The system further optionally comprises an electronic circuit that is in communication with the first detector unit and the second detector unit . While shown as being a single circuit it is to be understood that the electronic circuit can represent multiple electronic circuits. As will be described in greater detail herein the electronic circuit is generally configured to receive electrical signals output by the first detector unit and the second detector unit respectively and output a signal that is indicative of a material included in the sample based upon the electrical signals received from the detector units and . In another exemplary embodiment events detected by the detector units and can be recorded and analyzed by an external circuit e.g. paired double scatter events may be pieced together at a later point in time . The system may be particularly well suited in connection with detecting explosives illicit drugs contraband etc.

An exemplary operation of the system is now set forth. The neutron generator emits neutrons from a known position relative to the first detector unit . As shown in a neutron output by the neutron generator can impact the scintillator of the first detector unit and the first detector unit can output a first electrical signal responsive to the neutron impacting the scintillator therein. The electronic circuit can receive the first electrical signal from the first detector unit and can generate time tag for the neutron that identifies a point in time when the neutron was detected by the first detector unit . Subsequent to interacting with the scintillator of the first detector unit the neutron may exit the first detector unit at a particular angle relative to the direction of the neutron when emitted by the neutron generator . Such angle is indicative of an energy of the neutron when exiting the first detector unit . Neutrons that impact the first detector unit are spatially redirected and downscattered in energy. Thus neutrons exiting the first detector unit can have energies over a relatively wide range e.g. 1 MeV 13 MeVs .

Referring again to the single neutron the electronic circuit can process electrical signals from the second detector unit based upon the first electrical signal received from the first detector unit . For example as the position of the neutron generator relative to the first detector unit is known and as the position of the second detector unit relative to the first detector unit is known a time window within which the neutron will impact the second detector unit if the neutron impacts the second detector unit can also be known. Thus the electronic circuit can be gated such that a second electrical signal output by the second detector unit is only processed if the second detector signal is received by the electronic circuit within the above mentioned time window. When the sample is positioned between the first detector unit and the second detector unit the neutron may pass through the sample or may be scattered such that the path of the neutron is altered and the neutron will not impact the second detector unit . If however the neutron is not scattered the neutron may be detected by the second detector unit in the time window.

Thus it can be ascertained that when the sample is present between the first detector unit and the second detector unit fewer neutrons will be detected at the second detector unit along the path between the first detector unit and the second detector unit when compared to a number of neutrons detected by the second detector unit along such path when there is no sample between the first detector unit and the second detector unit . The energy dependent neutron attenuation caused by the presence of the sample can be used to identify at least one element in the sample .

With still more specificity in a calibration phase the system can be operated without the sample positioned between the first detector unit and the second detector unit . The neutron generator is caused to emit neutrons and the first detector unit elastically downscatters the neutrons in energy. Due to the known geometry of the system energy of neutrons that exit the first detector unit and that travel the path shown in is known. If the geometry happens to be unknown or spatial resolution is poor ToF data pertaining to neutrons that exit the first detector unit and impact the second detector unit can be ascertained and such ToF data can be used to determine energy of neutrons that travel the path shown in . The rate at which neutrons travelling the illustrated travel path between the first detector unit and the second detector unit can be retained as a baseline this process can be repeated for numerous travel paths between numerous detector unit pairs .

When the sample is placed between the first detector unit and the second detector unit the process noted above is repeated. When the sample is present however the second detector unit may detect neutrons exiting the first detector unit and travelling the illustrated travel path at a different rate compared to the rate of detection along the travel path when the sample is not present. The energy dependent attenuation of neutrons caused by the sample is indicative of at least one element of the sample . Additionally as the travel path of the neutron between the first detector unit and the second detector unit is known when the system is adapted to include several detectors positioned around the sample the electronic circuit can be configured to generate a volumetric image of the sample wherein such volumetric image is indicative of spatial distribution of elements of the sample .

Now referring to another exemplary system that facilitates identifying elemental composition of the sample and or generating a volumetric image of the sample is illustrated. The system comprises the neutron generator which emits neutrons. As indicated above the neutron generator can be a mono energetic neutron generator and further need not be a fast pulse generator. The system further comprises a plurality of detectors that are positioned to surround the sample . Positions of each of the detectors relative to the neutron generator and positions of the detectors relative to each other can be known. In an exemplary embodiment the system can be employed to determine energy dependent attenuation of neutrons that exit a detector unit with a relative wide range of energies e.g. 1 13 MeV wherein such attenuation is caused by the neutrons passing through the sample .

Elemental information pertaining to the sample can be determined from the neutron absorption resonances unique to each element in the sample . Referring briefly to an exemplary spectrum of neutron interaction cross sections for hydrogen carbon nitrogen and oxygen is illustrated. Given sufficient energy resolution the unique resonances in the energy attenuation of the sample can be used to categorize a wide range of materials. For example this can serve as technique for discriminating between explosives illicit drugs and other materials. depicts the atomic fraction of hydrogen carbon nitrogen and oxygen for several materials of interest along with common benign materials. Many conventional explosives for example are characterized by their relatively high nitrogen and oxygen content. It is understood that the technologies described herein however are not limited to the detection of the elements depicted in .

Returning to as noted above the system can be configured to downscatter and time tag neutrons through utilization of detector units. Accordingly ToF measurements can be acquired without the neutron generator emitting fast pulsed neutron beams. In the example shown in neutrons emitted by the neutron generator impact the first detector unit and other detector units . The first detector unit downscatters neutrons in energy by an amount that is dependent upon the angle between the direction of the neutron when emitted by the neutron generator and the direction of the neutron as it exits the first detector unit . For example if neutrons emitted by the neutron generator have an energy of 14.1 MeV then the energy of the neutron exiting the first detector unit is as follows 

Accordingly timing and spatial resolution of the detector units is directly related to the energy resolution that can be obtained. In addition Eq. 1 can be used to measure the energy and or to constrain the ToF to a range corresponding to the expected energies in order to reduce accidental backgrounds. If Eq. 1 is employed to determine the energy the uncertainty can be given as follows 

As shown in the detectors are arranged cylindrically about the sample wherein the cylinder has a known radius e.g. approximately 50 cm . Further in an exemplary embodiment the detector units can be on a same plane as the sample . The neutron generator which may be a deuterium tritium neutron source can be situated outside of the cylindrical region formed by the detector units . For instance the neutron generator can be positioned some distance from a closest detector unit e.g. the first detector unit . In an exemplary embodiment such distance can be at least 1 m.

The three nearest detector units to the neutron generator units and can be configured to initially receive neutrons emitted from the neutron generator and downscatter such neutrons in energy. For example the detector units and can be referred to as near units and the detector units and can be referred to as far units . As noted above neutrons emitted by the neutron generator can have an energy of about 14.1 MeV. Neutrons that impact the first detector unit are elastically downscattered in energy in such first detector unit to for instance between 1 MeV and 13 MeV. The neutrons exiting the first detector unit can be registered by the far units and after such neutrons have passed through the sample . The known spatial positions of the neutron generator the first detector unit and the far units can be used to compute an energy of a neutron detected at a far unit. In another exemplary embodiment a time between the first detector unit detecting a neutron and one of the far units detecting the neutron can be used to measure the energy of the neutron detected at the far unit. As will be shown below the electronic circuit can include a trigger that is constructed from a 250 ns coincidence of any near unit with any far unit. Using Eq. 4 the uncertainty in the energy of neutrons passing through the sample at 3 MeV can be approximately 2 . Pursuant to an example when ToF data is used to compute the energy of a neutron timing resolution may be a dominant factor contributing to the error. Geometrical constraints represented in Eq. 6 which depend only on the spatial resolution and separation of the detector units can give an uncertainty in energy of approximately 1 .

Additionally as indicated above the system can be employed to generate a volumetric image of the sample . Conventional three dimensional imaging systems require rotation of the sample with respect to a detector to provide multiple two dimensional maps. The system can generate a three dimensional volumetric image of the sample with a single scan due to the multiple scattering angles of the neutrons incident on the sample . Elemental three dimensional maps can be determined by measuring the complete energy dependent attenuation through paths between detector units. Total attenuation along each path can be the product of attenuation through each voxel along the path in the sample . By sampling every voxel multiple times by different paths at different angles the energy elemental and position dependence can be de convolved to construct an elemental density map of the target space. Only attenuation between pairs of near and far units may be considered.

Now referring to a schematic diagram of an exemplary trigger scheme that can be employed in connection with the system is illustrated. The trigger scheme indicates that each detector unit has seven separate channels each of which can output a signal that indicates that the detector has been impacted by a neutron and position on the detector unit of the impact. As noted above detectors are separated into a near group and a far group wherein the near group includes the detector units and and the far group includes the detector units and . The channels of each of the detector units can be multiplexed and synchronized in time with one another. The outputs of detector units in the near group are provided to an OR gate while the outputs of the detector units in the far group are provided to an OR gate . A coincidence of the logical OR gate and the logical OR gate can be approximately 250 nanoseconds which can be set as the trigger condition. The output of the OR gates and is provided to an AND gate wherein the output of the AND gate can be utilized to synchronize the outputs of the detectors .

Now referring to another exemplary operation of the system is depicted. For example the system can be configured to perform material identification not just by the energy attenuated neutron signal but by a direct measurement of the mass of the scattered nuclei within the sample . For instance if it is assumed that m

Now referring to an exploded view of an exemplary detector unit which can be utilized as any of the detector units in the system is illustrated. The detector can include a protective cover which can be composed of a plastic a metal such as aluminum etc. The detector unit further comprises a scintillator block which can be composed of a scintillator crystal and have a thickness on the order of 2 inches. The detector further comprises a plurality of photomultiplier tubes which can be on the order of 7 inches in length. Sides of the scintillator block can be coated with black absorbing paint and a face of the scintillator block can be coated with a white reflective material to increase an amount of light collected. A waveguide can be used in connection with coupling the scintillator block with the photomultiplier tubes . An LED calibration board can be utilized for position reconstruction calibrations. A plurality of holders are configured to hold the photomultiplier tubes in place and a high voltage power supply provides a bias voltage to the photomultiplier tubes . Position resolution of the detector can be calculated using any suitable technique. In an exemplary embodiment spatial resolution of approximately 0.4 cm a can be obtained. To determine timing resolution responses to muons propagating perpendicularly to the photomultiplier tube faces can be used.

Moreover the one or more acts described herein may represent computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions can include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies can be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like.

With reference now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates outputting a signal that is indicative of an element in a sample is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at neutrons are emitted from a mono energetic neutron source. At a neutron from the mono energetic neutron source is detected at a first detector. At a time tag is generated responsive to the neutron being detected at the first detector. The first detector generally down scatters the neutron that impacts the first detector.

At a second detector is monitored based upon the neutron detected at the first detector wherein a sample is positioned between the first detector and the second detector. For example the second detector can be monitored to ascertain if the second detector detects the neutron that was first detected by the first detector. At the neutron is detected at the second detector. At a second time tag can be generated responsive to detecting the neutron at the second detector. Thus a time of flight between the first detector and the second detector when the neutron passes through the sample can be ascertained. This time of flight can be indicative of the energy of the neutron. Such energy can in turn be indicative of existence of an element in the sample. In another exemplary embodiment rather than using time tags to determine the energy of the neutron known spatial positions of componentry can be used to determine the energy of the neutron and the time information can be used to reduce noise. At a signal is output that is indicative of the element in the target based upon energy dependent attenuation caused by the presence of the sample between the first detector and the second detector. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates generating a volumetric image of a sample that is indicative of elemental composition of the sample is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at neutrons are emitted from a mono energetic neutron source. At a neutron is detected at a first detector. At a first time tag is generated responsive to detecting the neutron at the first detector. At a second detector is monitored based upon the neutron being detected at the first detector wherein the sample is positioned between the first detector and the second detector. For instance the second detector can be monitored in a time window that beings a threshold amount of time subsequent to the first detector detecting the neutron.

At the neutron is detected at the second detector. Further at a second time tag is generated that indicates when the second detector detected the neutron. As noted above such second time tag can be used to compute energy of the neutron and or in connection with reducing noise. At a volumetric image of the sample is generated based upon a position of the first detector relative to the second detector and or the time of flight of the neutron computed based upon the first time tag and the second time tag . The methodology completes at .

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that supports computing time of flight of a neutron between detector units. By way of another example the computing device can be used in a system that computes energy dependent attenuation of neutrons caused by a sample through which the neutrons pass. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store energy spectrums corresponding to various materials elements.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions observed energy spectrums etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively or in addition the functionally described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

