---

title: Cartridge ejection systems and methods for single-serve beverage production machines
abstract: Systems and methods for ejecting cartridges from single-serve beverage preparation machines are disclosed. In some embodiments, an ejection system is configured to facilitate ejection of the cartridge from a chamber in a rotatable basket unit. The ejection system can encourage the cartridge out of the chamber during the rotation of the basket unit, such as by force or gravity, by spring-loaded pins, or otherwise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504348&OS=09504348&RS=09504348
owner: Starbucks Corporation
number: 09504348
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140311
---
This application is related to at least United States U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 198 titled SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINE which is filed on the same day as the present application and is U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 256 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH MULTI CHAMBERED BASKET UNITS which is filed on the same day as the present application and is U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application and is U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 232 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH RESTRICTORS which is filed on the same day as the present application and is U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 197 titled POD BASED RESTRICTORS AND METHODS which is filed on the same day as the present application. The entirety of each of the aforementioned applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to beverage machines and more specifically to beverage machines that can receive a cartridge and that can to eject and or a collect the cartridge.

Single serve beverage machines are devices that are designed to produce a single serving or sometimes a single cup of a desired beverage. In comparison to other types of beverage machines such as drip coffee makers having a multi cup carafe single serve beverage machines can enhance convenience by reducing the time to prepare the beverage.

Some single serve beverage machines use a cartridge or capsule containing one or more beverage components or precursors to produce the beverage. Generally such cartridges are received in the single serve beverage machine are used to produce the single serving of the beverage and are subsequently manually removed from the machine and discarded.

Various beverage preparation machines having ejection mechanisms are described below to illustrate various examples that may be employed to achieve one or more desired improvements. These examples are only illustrative and not intended in any way to restrict the general disclosure presented and the various aspects and features of the disclosure. The general principles described herein may be applied to embodiments and applications other than those detailed below without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Indeed the present embodiments are not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments shown but are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed or suggested herein. Certain aspects advantages and features of the inventions have been described herein. It is not necessary that any or all such aspects advantages and features are achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Some embodiments may not achieve the advantages described herein but may achieve different advantages instead. Any structure feature or step in one example is contemplated to be used in place of or in addition to any structure feature or step of any other example. No features structure or step disclosed herein is essential or indispensable.

Many methods and systems for brewing beverages such as coffee are known. In conventional coffee brewing systems a brewing machine typically brews a relatively large batch of coffee. In commercial settings a barista may pour cup sized portions of coffee from the batch when a customer places an order. Such beverage brewing systems are inefficient because coffee may be wasted when not all of the coffee in the batch is ordered or consumed. In addition such systems may produce coffee having an inconsistent flavor and taste because the coffee is not necessarily brewed when a customer places an order and may not be fresh when consumed.

Automated single cup coffee brewing systems may be employed to address some of the disadvantages of conventional batch type coffee brewing systems. Users of automated single cup coffee brewing systems would benefit from several improvements to those systems including but not limited to reducing the time it takes to brew a single cup portion or traveler portion of coffee reducing the labor and time involved in cleaning brewing equipment between brew cycles. Single cup coffee brewing systems have increased convenience to the user but additional improvements may be realized through the use of an automated ejection and collection mechanism of used or unwanted cartridges.

Certain single serve beverage machines can accept only a single type of cartridge. For example some such machines can use only cartridges having a certain configuration e.g. diameter height shape etc. . This can be problematic because variations in the cartridge configuration can be beneficial. Indeed in some instances one cartridge configuration may be suitable for preparing some beverages and another cartridge configuration may be suitable for preparing other beverages. For example it can be beneficial to prepare brewed drinks using different cartridge configurations which are useful for different brewing conditions e.g. different temperatures and or pressures . For example brewed coffee drinks and espresso coffee drinks can be produced using different cartridge configurations e.g. the espresso cartridge having a diameter that is less than a diameter of the brewed coffee cartridge a height that is greater than the brewed coffee cartridge and or being adapted to withstand higher pressures than the brewed coffee cartridge .

Accordingly some aspects of the present disclosure describe beverage preparation machines comprising a basket unit that is configured to eject a cartridge containing beverage precursor material. For example some embodiments comprise a chamber configured to receive a cartridge for beverage production. After beverage production in some implementations the basket unit is rotatable so that the chamber is inverted. For example the chamber may be oriented generally upwardly during beverage production and rotated generally downwardly for ejection. In some embodiments the cartridge may be ejected into a waste bin unit. In some embodiments the waste bin unit comprises a plurality of containers. For example the plurality of containers may comprise a first container and a second container wherein the first container is oriented above the second container. In some embodiments the first container may comprise a perforated floor. A cartridge may comprise a cartridge body and a beverage precursor material substantially contained therein. In some implementations the perforated floor may be configured to retain the cartridge body and permit the beverage precursor material to enter the second container.

For purposes of the present disclosure and summarizing distinctions from the prior art certain aspects of the apparatus systems and methods have been described above and will be described further below. Of course it is to be understood that not necessarily all such aspects may be present in any particular embodiment. Thus for example those skilled in the art will recognize that the apparatus systems and methods may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one aspect or group of aspects as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects as may be taught or suggested herein. All of these embodiments are intended to be within the scope of the present disclosure herein disclosed.

In some embodiments a system for ejecting a single serve beverage cartridge includes a frame and a basket unit rotatable in the frame. The basket unit can have a first side with a cartridge receiving chamber. The chamber can include an interior with a bottom with an aperture. In some variants when the basket unit is in a first position the first side is upwardly oriented and when the basket unit is in a second position the first side is downwardly oriented. An engagement member e.g. a pin can be positioned within the aperture. In some embodiments as a cartridge is positioned within the chamber the pin is engaged e.g. depressed by the cartridge when the basket unit is in the first position. In some embodiments when the basket unit is rotated to the second position the pin pushes the cartridge out of the chamber.

Certain variants of the system include any one or any combination of any of the following. The system can include a biasing member e.g. a spring to bias the pin towards the interior of the chamber. The ejection mechanism can have a plurality e.g. three of additional apertures and a corresponding plurality e.g. three of additional pins that extend through the additional apertures. Some variants include a corresponding plurality of additional biasing members. In some embodiments the apertures are circumferentially spaced apart from each other such as by at least about 30 45 60 90 135 180 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise.

In some embodiments a system for ejecting a cartridge includes a basket unit with a chamber for receiving the cartridge and an ejector for ejecting the cartridge. The chamber can rotate from a first position to a second position. In some embodiments in the first position the first chamber has an upwardly orientated opening and in the second position the opening is downwardly orientated. The first position can be located generally above e.g. vertically higher than the second position. In some embodiments the chamber can receive a cartridge in the first position. In some variants the ejector ejects the cartridge from the chamber when the opening is downwardly orientated.

Some embodiments of the system include any one or any combination of any of the following. In some embodiments the ejector uses gravity to aid in removing the cartridge from the chamber. In certain implementations the chamber has an interior and a bottom that are in communication with the cartridge when loaded. In some variants the bottom has an aperture and or the ejector has a pin configured to extend through the aperture and contact the cartridge to eject the cartridge from the chamber. In certain implementations the ejector has a biasing member to bias the pin towards the interior of the chamber. The ejector can include pluralities e.g. three of additional apertures pins and biasing members. The apertures can be circumferentially spaced apart such as by approximately 90 degrees apart from each other. In some variants the ejector has an inlet configured to allow water to enter the chamber. The ejector can include a lever configured to engage a cartridge such that the cartridge is driven away from the bottom.

In some embodiments a method for ejecting a cartridge from a brew basket e.g. a multi chamber basket includes inserting a cartridge into a first chamber rotating the basket such that the first chamber moves from a first position to a second position and ejecting the cartridge from the first chamber. In some embodiments of the method ejecting includes allowing gravity to eject the cartridge from the first chamber in the second position. In certain variants of the method ejecting includes inserting a pin through an aperture in a bottom of the chamber. The pin can engage e.g. contact the cartridge to eject the cartridge from the chamber. In some embodiments ejecting includes inserting water into the chamber to eject the cartridge from the chamber. In certain implementations ejecting includes using a lever to pry the cartridge from the chamber.

According to some embodiments a system for ejecting a beverage precursor material from a brew basket includes a basket with a first side opposite a second side and an ejection mechanism. The first side of the basket can be in a first position vertically above a second position. The first side can include a chamber for receiving a beverage precursor material. The ejection mechanism can include an inlet configured to allow water to enter the chamber.

In some embodiments a system for ejecting a cartridge from a brew basket has a basket with a first side opposite a second side. The first side can be in a first position vertically above a second position. The first side can include a chamber for receiving a cartridge. Some embodiments of the system include an assembly to rotate the first side to the second position. Certain embodiments include an ejection mechanism. In some variants the ejection mechanism has a lever able to engage e.g. pry a cartridge from the chamber. For example the lever can engage the cartridge such that the cartridge is driven away from the first chamber as the first side is rotated to the second position.

In accordance with certain embodiments a method for ejecting a beverage precursor material from a brew basket includes inserting a cartridge into a chamber rotating the chamber from a first position to a second position and ejecting the cartridge from the chamber e.g. by advancing a pin positioned in and or extending through an aperture in a bottom of the chamber .

In certain implementations a method for ejecting a beverage precursor material from a brew basket includes inserting a beverage precursor material into a first side of a brew basket rotating the basket such that the first side moves from a first position to a second position and inserting water into the first side of a brew basket to eject the beverage precursor material.

In some embodiments a method for ejecting a beverage precursor material from a brew basket includes inserting a beverage precursor material into the brew basket rotating the brew basket such that the first side moves from a first position to a second position and prying the beverage precursor material from the brew basket as it is rotated.

In some embodiments an apparatus for ejecting a cartridge from a multi chamber basket includes a basket and an ejection mechanism. The basket can move from at least a first configuration to a second configuration. The basket can have a plurality of chambers including at least a first chamber configured to receive a cartridge and a second chamber opposite the first chamber. In the first configuration the first chamber is located in a first position vertically above a second position. In the second configuration the first chamber is located in the second position. The ejection mechanism can eject the cartridge from the chamber.

Some embodiments of the apparatus include any one or any combination of any of the following. The ejection mechanism can use gravity to eject the cartridge from the chamber. The chamber can have an interior and a bottom in communication with a cartridge when loaded. The bottom can include an aperture and the ejection mechanism can have a pin configured to extend through the aperture and engage e.g. contact the cartridge to eject the cartridge from the chamber. The ejection mechanism can include a biasing member to bias the pin towards the interior of the chamber. The ejection mechanism can have a plurality e.g. three additional apertures pins and biasing members. The apertures are spaced at least about 90 degrees apart from each other. The ejection mechanism can have an inlet configured to allow water to enter the chamber. The ejection mechanism can included a lever configured to engage a cartridge such that the cartridge is driven away from the bottom.

In certain embodiments an apparatus for ejecting a cartridge from a multi chamber basket has a basket configured to be oriented in at least a first configuration and a second configuration. The basket can have a plurality of chambers including at least a first chamber configured to receive a cartridge and a second chamber opposite the first chamber. In the first configuration the first chamber is located in a first position vertically above a second position. In the second configuration the first chamber is located in the second position. The apparatus can include a means for rotating the basket between the configurations and or a means for ejecting the cartridge from the chamber.

The liquid reservoir can be located within or external to the housing . The liquid reservoir can be in fluid communication e.g. via tubing or pipes with the main housing to provide liquid e.g. water stored within the liquid reservoir to a chamber within the main housing where the beverage is prepared. In various embodiments the liquid is pre heated before entering the chamber. For example the liquid may be heated within a separate storage reservoir or within fluid supply lines as the liquid travels to the chamber. The amount of liquid e.g. water provided to the chamber from the liquid reservoir may be determined by the beverage recipe. The liquid reservoir may include a water level sensor configured to determine whether enough liquid is present in the liquid reservoir to prepare a requested beverage. The frother unit can cause the beverage to be dispensed with a froth of bubbles e.g. a frothed milk . After dispensing a brewed beverage into the cup the frothed liquid e.g. frothed milk can be poured into the beverage. The frother unit may include a control input to toggle the frothing on and off.

As shown in the main housing can include a frame that supports a beverage production assembly having a basket unit . As also shown an upper portion of the main housing can include a top with an opening to facilitate the loading of a single serve beverage cartridge e.g. a single serve cartridge with a porous upper and or lower surface into the basket unit . The opening can be selectively opened and closed with a lid assembly . Additional details regarding single serve beverage cartridges and the lid assembly are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 61 786 072 filed Mar. 14 2013 and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 191 225 filed Feb. 26 2014 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments a single serve beverage cartridge includes a cartridge body holding a beverage precursor. The cartridge body may comprise any suitable material including but not limited to plastic metal wood bio degradable polymers etc. The cartridge body may be reusable recyclable biodegradable compostable commercially compostable etc. The beverage precursor may comprise for example coffee grounds tea leaves powdered milk milk juice tea coffee green coffee green coffee extract coffee extract flavorings other beverage materials etc.

In various embodiments the main housing includes an input and output unit . For example the input and output unit can include an indicator e.g. a light display dial or otherwise to indicate status information such as whether the main housing has power is operating requires maintenance etc. The input and output unit can include a user interface member e.g. a button or switch to provide instruction to the main housing such as a command to begin the beverage production process. The input and output unit can be connected with a memory and or a controller such as a microprocessor.

In some variants the input and output unit includes a reader. The reader can be configured to read a code e.g. optical code one dimensional bar code two dimensional bar code etc. and or a tag e.g. a radio frequency identification RFID tag or near field communication NFC tag on the cartridge or associated packaging. This can allow the machine to identify the type of beverage to be produced. For example reading a cartridge containing espresso coffee ingredients e.g. grounds can identify to the machine that an espresso beverage is to be produced. In several implementations the beverage production assembly is adjusted based on the type of beverage to be produced as is discussed in more detail below. Additional details regarding the reader as well as associated functions are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 198 titled SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINE which is filed on the same day as the present application and the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

In some implementations when the cartridge has been loaded into the basket unit and the lid assembly has been closed a beverage preparation process can begin. In some embodiments of the beverage preparation process liquid e.g. hot water is introduced into the cartridge to produce a beverage such as by a discharge head in the lid assembly . The beverage can exit the cartridge and be conveyed to the cup through portions of the main housing such as via a dispensing assembly .

An embodiment of the beverage production assembly is illustrated in . As noted above the beverage production assembly can include the basket unit . The beverage production assembly can also include a ratchet assembly and or a collar . As discussed in further detail below engagement between the ratchet assembly and the collar can facilitate movement e.g. rotation of the basket unit . This can allow the basket unit to be selectively positioned to provide access to a desired chamber in the basket such as for loading a cartridge.

In some implementations the basket unit includes a body portion . The illustrated body portion has a generally cylindrical shape though many other shapes are contemplated as well. As shown the first chamber can be positioned at a first end of the generally cylindrical shape and the second chamber can be positioned at a second end of the generally cylindrical shape. In some embodiments the first and or second chambers protrude into the body portion e.g. are recessed within .

In certain variants the first and second chambers are configured to receive different types of cartridges. For example the first chamber can be configured to receive a first type of cartridge with a first size and or shape and the second chamber can be configured to receive a second type of cartridge a second size and or shape. In some embodiments the first chamber is adapted for producing a first type of beverage from beverage component or precursor in the first cartridge type and the second chamber is adapted for producing a second type of beverage from beverage component or precursor in the second cartridge type. For example first chamber can receive a first type of cartridge containing a beverage component or precursor for the production of a brewed coffee beverage and the second chamber can receive a second type of cartridge containing a beverage component or precursor for the production of an espresso coffee beverage e.g. latte macchiato cappuccino espresso shot etc. . In certain variants the first type of cartridge is for the production of an espresso coffee beverage and the second type of cartridge can be for the production of a brewed coffee beverage. In several implementations at least one of the chambers is for producing a coffee beverage such as a brewed coffee or espresso coffee beverage. In certain embodiments at least one of the cartridges is for producing a non coffee beverage such as tea hot chocolate fruit or vegetable based drink e.g. juice cider or the like or otherwise.

In embodiments in which at least one of chambers is for preparing brewed coffee that chamber may include structural features such as filtration elements strainers large exit apertures etc. configured to facilitate brewing of coffee grounds. In embodiments in which at least one of chambers is for preparing espresso coffee that chamber may be smaller in size e.g. diameter volume or otherwise than the brewed coffee chamber. In some implementations the chamber for preparing espresso coffee beverages may include structural features configured to prepare the espresso beverage at a higher pressure than the brewed coffee beverage for example the espresso coffee chamber may include very small exit apertures or may be configured to receive a tamp that compresses the grounds in the cartridge . In some embodiments the chamber for preparing espresso coffee beverages is configured to withstand at least about 130.5 psi about 9 bar of pressure and the chamber for preparing brewed coffee beverages is configured to withstand less than 130.5 psi of pressure e.g. about 5 psi of pressure . In some embodiments the chamber for preparing brewed coffee beverages is configured to withstand pressures of at least about 3 psi and or less than or equal to about 4 psi. In some implementations the chamber for preparing espresso coffee beverages is configured to withstand at least about 195 psi and or the chamber for preparing brewed coffee beverages is configured to withstand at least about 4.5 psi.

The cartridges to be received in each such respective chambers may also include different structural features to facilitate preparation of different types of beverages. For example a cartridge for use in preparing an espresso or other high pressure type beverage may be configured may to withstand a higher pressure being applied to its contents rather than a cartridge used for preparing a brewed type coffee or other low pressure type beverage in order to prepare an espresso beverage rather than a brewed coffee beverage. Thus an espresso or high pressure cartridge may include a stretchable lid for receiving a tamp that compresses the grounds in the cartridge may include smaller exit apertures or may be smaller in size while a brewed coffee or low pressure cartridge may include large or more exit apertures may include a non deformable or stretchable lid or may be larger in size.

Various embodiments of the basket unit can include one or more bracing elements. For example some embodiments of the basket unit can include one or more radially outwardly extending annular flanges . Certain variants have one or more cartridge support members such as shoulders or walls that surround a portion of the first and second chambers . For example the embodiment and configuration shown has a generally upwardly extending first wall bounding a portion of the first chamber and a generally downwardly extending second wall that bounds a portion of the second chamber . The cartridge support members can be configured to support a cartridge that is received in the chamber such as by engaging an outwardly extending lip or flange on the periphery of the cartridge not shown .

In certain implementations one or more of the cartridge support members include a sealing member such as a gasket made of plastic rubber or another elastomeric material. As shown the sealing member can be located at an end of the respective cartridge support member . In certain variants the sealing member extends generally vertically. In some embodiments a portion of the sealing member is received in a recess in the respective cartridge support member .

The sealing member can be configured to facilitate a seal e.g. a substantially liquid tight seal and or substantially gas tight seal between the respective cartridge support members and the cartridge. For example in certain implementations during the beverage production process the peripheral flange of the cartridge and one of the cartridge support members are pressed together thereby resiliently deforming the sealing member and providing a closure between the cartridge and the cartridge support member. In some embodiments a tamping mechanism e.g. in the lid assembly depresses the cartridge against one of the cartridge support members e.g. the cartridge support member oriented generally upwardly . Additional details regarding the tamping mechanism and the sealing member can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application and the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

With continued reference to some embodiments of the basket unit includes features that can facilitate movement e.g. rotation of the basket unit . For example in the illustrated arrangement the basket unit can include first and second axle portions . As shown at least some of the axle portions can have a generally circular cross section which can aid in rotation about the axle portions. The axle portions can extend radially outwardly from and be rigidly attached to the body portion of the basket unit . In some embodiments the axle portions are positioned opposite each other around the periphery e.g. circumference of the body portion and or are aligned along a common axis RA. In various embodiments the axle portions can facilitate rotation of the basket unit about the axis RA and relative to other components of the main housing as described in further detail below. In some implementations the axle portions are formed with the body portion of the basket unit . In some variants the axle portions are part of a unitary axle member that extends through the basket unit . In some embodiments the axle member can be a separate component that fits into a mating cylindrical bore in the basket unit e.g. along the axis RA.

According to some implementations at least one of the axle portions includes a mating feature such as a groove notch tooth or otherwise. The mating feature can be configured to engage with a portion of the ratchet assembly . In some embodiments at least one of the axle portions includes a stop member such as a shoulder. The stop member can engage a mating portion e.g. a hole of the frame to inhibit or prevent translational movement of the basket unit relative to the frame along the axis RA.

In various embodiments the basket unit can include bottom portions that can define a bottom of each of the chambers. In some embodiments each of the bottom portions are configured to support a cartridge placed in the respective chamber. For example as shown in the bottom portions can include a series or radial struts and or rings or a perforated surface . In some embodiments one or more of the bottom portions can include a center support which can intersect with the radial struts and or one or more of the rings . In various embodiments each of the bottom portions include one or gaps or apertures which can allow liquid to flow therethrough to exit the respective chambers . In some embodiments each of the bottom portions are secured to the body portion with one or more threads fasteners e.g. screws adhesives or otherwise.

In some embodiments one or more of the bottom portions include a restriction assembly . The restriction assembly can be configured to facilitate creating or providing an increase in pressure in one or more of the chambers during the beverage production process. This can be beneficial in producing certain types of beverages. For example producing espresso at under elevated pressure conditions e.g. about at least 9 bar can yield an improved beverage. Additional details regarding restriction assemblies can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 232 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH RESTRICTORS which is filed on the same day as the present application and the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

With regard to each of the chambers can have at least one conduit configured to convey liquid to a corresponding outlet during the beverage production process. For example a first conduit can fluidly connect the first chamber with a first outlet and a second conduit can fluidly connect the second chamber with a second outlet . This can provide a distinct flow path for each of the chambers . As shown in some embodiments the outlets can extend outward from the body portion in generally opposite directions. For example the first outlet can extend from a first side of the basket unit and the second outlet can extend from generally the opposite side of the basket unit . In various embodiments the conduits are angled such that a given conduit is inclined generally downwardly when its associated chamber is oriented generally upwardly. For example in the first chamber is oriented generally upwardly and the first conduit is inclined generally downwardly. Such inclined conduits can encourage liquid e.g. a beverage to exit from the chambers . In some embodiments the first conduit and or the second conduit can be angled relative to horizontal at least about 1 5 10 20 30 45 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise.

In some embodiments one or more of the outlets extend generally perpendicular to the axis RA. In certain variants the outlets can extend generally parallel to or at a slight angle e.g. less than about 5 10 15 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise relative to the axis RAThis can facilitate engaging the one or more of the outlets with the dispensing assembly during a rotational operation of the basket unit as is discussed in more detail below. In some implementations each of the outlets include a mating member such as a flange . As shown in the side view of the flange can be curved. This can facilitate mating engagement with the dispensing assembly .

In some embodiments the basket unit includes features configured to indicate the position of the basket unit relative to the frame or other portions of the main housing . For example the basket unit can include one or more basket position elements and the main housing can include one or more basket position sensors not shown configured to detect the presence of the basket position elements . In some embodiments the basket position elements are magnetic markers and the basket position sensors are magnetic sensors. In certain variants the basket position elements are light reflective elements and the basket position sensors are configured to emit and detect a light signal e.g. a light signal reflected off of the basket position elements . In various implementations the basket position sensors are configured to determine the presence or non presence of at least one of the basket position elements . For example at least one of the basket position sensors can sense whether at least one of the basket position elements is in close proximity to and or is facing the basket position sensor.

In some embodiments the basket position elements are configured to indicate the position of the basket unit . For example in the embodiment illustrated in a first basket position element can be located on a first side of the cross sectional line D D and a second basket position element can be located on a second side of the cross sectional line D D. When the basket unit is rotated about the axis RA the position of the basket position elements changes as a function of which chamber is oriented generally upwardly. In some embodiments one or more basket position sensors can detect the location of the basket position elements . For example the basket position sensors can determine which side of the line D D that the basket position element that is facing the sensor is located on. This information can be provided to the controller in the machine to monitor the position of the basket unit . In some embodiments when a first sensor detects a first of the basket position elements the first sensor can send a signal the controller indicating that the first side is oriented generally upwardly and when a second sensor detects a second of the basket position elements the second sensor can send a signal to the controller indicating that the second side is oriented generally upwardly. This can facilitate determining a position of the basket and or whether and which of the chambers is in the loading position.

With reference to an embodiment of the ratchet member is illustrated. In some embodiments the ratchet member comprises a main portion that is configured to engage with the axle portion of the basket unit . For example the main portion can include a channel configured to receive a portion of the axle portion . In some implementations the main portion is configured to be received in and or to rotate relative to the frame see . In some embodiments the ratchet member includes mating features such as one or more notches teeth or otherwise. The mating features of the ratchet member can be configured to engage with the mating features of the basket unit . Such engagement can inhibit the ratchet member from rotating relative to the basket unit such that movement of the ratchet member can result in movement of the basket unit .

The ratchet member can include one or more collar engaging members such as arms and or ribs . In some embodiments the ratchet member includes at least one two three four five six seven or eight arms and or at least one two three four five six seven or eight ribs . For example the embodiment shown includes two arms and four ribs . In some implementations the arms are longitudinally spaced apart e.g. in a direction generally parallel to an axis of rotation of the ratchet member from a rear portion of the ratchet member . For example the arms can be located at a central portion of the ratchet member . This can allow portions of the collar to pass behind the arms as discussed in more detail below.

As discussed in more detail below when some variants are in certain configurations the ribs can engage with the collar . For example in some embodiments the ribs engage with the collar when a lid of the lid assembly is in the open position. This can inhibit unintended rotation of the basket unit . In certain variants when the lid is not in the open position the ribs do not engage with the collar thereby allowing rotation of the basket unit .

As illustrated in various configurations of the arms and ribs are contemplated. In certain embodiments the ribs have a longitudinal length LLthat is greater than a longitudinal length LLof the arms . As shown in some variants the ribs extend at least from the rear portion of the ratchet member to a front side of the arms . In some implementations a radial length RLof one of the arms is greater than the longitudinal length LLof that arm. In some embodiments the longitudinal length LLof one of the ribs is greater than the radial length RLof that rib. In certain variants the arms extend from the main portion of the ratchet member in generally opposite directions. This description is a bit confusing. The features are functionally identical as seen in and are intended to lock out rotation of the brew chamber in the unlatched state when they interact with feature on the collar. Features are intended to only interface with feature . The long fins identified as feature are intended to only interact with feature found on the collar.

Each of the arms can have a first surface and a second surface . As shown in in certain variants the first surface is curved and the second surface is substantially straight. In some implementations a first length measured along the first surface is longer than a second length measured along the second surface . In various embodiments the first surface is configured to facilitate sliding movement of a portion e.g. a projection of the collar relative to the ratchet member and or the second surface is configured to engage and or move in conjunction with a portion of the collar as discussed in further detail below.

As illustrated in the ratchet member can include one or more follower engaging members such as projections or bosses . In certain implementations the bosses have a substantially circular cross sectional shape. As shown certain embodiments include a plurality of bosses that are spaced apart from each other. For example the illustrated embodiment includes a first boss and a second boss

With regard to an embodiment of a ratchet follower is shown. The ratchet follower can include an elongate shape. In some embodiments a first end of the ratchet follower is configured to be fixedly attached to a portion of the frame see with a fastener such as a screw rivet pin or otherwise. In some embodiments the ratchet follower is biased by the biasing member such as a tension spring leaf spring torsion spring or otherwise. For example a second end of the ratchet follower can connect to the biasing member . As shown the second end can include an arm that engages with a hook or loop at an end of the biasing member . In some embodiments a spring element such as a torsion or compression spring can be configured to interact on one or more surfaces on the ratchet follower so as to bias the follower in one rotational direction.

As shown the ratchet follower can include a cam following portion . In certain variants the cam following portion includes a first ramp and a second ramp . Relative to a longitudinal axis of the ratchet follower the first ramp can be at an angle and the second ramp can be at an angle . In various implementations the angle is greater than or equal to the angle . In some implementations the angle is less than or equal to the angle . In some variants the angles are about equal.

With regard to an embodiment of a collar is illustrated. The collar can include an annular body with a wall portion . In some embodiments the wall portion includes one or more cam teeth . For example the cam teeth can be positioned on a radially inner side of the wall portion . In some embodiments one or more of the cam teeth engage a cam track e.g. in the lid assembly see to facilitate securing the lid assembly and or for tamping of the cartridge. Further details in that regard can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application.

As shown the collar can include a radially outwardly extending flange . In some embodiments the flange includes a circumferentially extending notch . Certain variants of the flange have one or more position indication features such as tick marks dimples or grooves. In some embodiments the main housing includes a rotation detection sensor not shown that is configured to detect the position indication features . The sensor can send a signal to the controller in the main housing which can use that signal to discern the rotational position of the collar relative to other portions of the main housing e.g. the basket unit .

In various embodiments the collar is configured to be rotatably driven by a motor not shown . For example the collar can include a plurality of gear teeth adapted to engage with a gear or gear train that engages with a shaft of the motor. The motor can drive the gear or gear train which in turn rotates the collar about the axis RA.

Several embodiments of the collar include one or more ratchet engaging members. For example certain embodiments of the collar include a leg with a projection e.g. a tab bump finger or otherwise . In some implementations the leg extends generally downward and or the projection extends radially outwardly. In some embodiments the collar includes a wing . In some embodiments the wing is positioned radially inward of the leg and or the projection . As discussed in further detail below in some variants to facilitate rotation of the basket unit the projection can be configured to engage with the arms of the ratchet member and or the wing can be configured to engage with the ribs of the ratchet member .

As noted above when some variants are in certain configurations the ribs can engage with the collar . For example when the lid is in the open position the collar can be rotatably positioned such that the wing and the ribs of the ratchet member are engaged. This engagement can inhibit unintended rotation of the basket unit . In certain variants when the lid is not in the open position the ribs do not engage with the wing thereby allowing rotation of the basket unit .

With reference to an embodiment of the beverage production assembly is illustrated. As previously noted the beverage production assembly can include the basket unit the ratchet assembly and the collar . In some variants the beverage production assembly includes a controller not shown configures to receive a signal from and a sensor not shown . In the embodiment illustrated the first chamber is oriented generally upwardly and the second chamber is oriented generally downwardly. This can facilitate loading of the first cartridge e.g. not shown into the first chamber provided that the lid assembly is open such as is shown in . As such the chamber that is oriented generally upwardly is said to be in the loading position. Also the cartridge that is oriented generally downwardly can be said to be in the inverted position. As will be discussed in detail below the basket unit of the beverage production assembly can be configured to rotate to selectively position one of the first and the second chambers in the loading position and or to selectively position the other of the first and the second chambers in the inverted position.

In some embodiments the collar is positioned and adapted such that cartridges can be passed through the collar for receipt into one of the chambers. For example as shown the collar can surround an upper portion of the basket unit while also allowing access to the chamber that is in the loading position. In certain variants an axial centerline of the collar is collinear with a line drawn between the centers of the first and second chambers .

As noted above the beverage production assembly can include a motor not shown . The motor can be driven e.g. rotate the collar such as via a gear or gear train. In turn the collar can drive other components of the beverage production assembly. For example the collar can engage the ratcheting assembly and or the dispensing assembly which can result in movement of those components as well as other components e.g. the basket unit . As described in more detail below rotation of the collar about a rotational axis RAcan result in one or more of the following rotational movement of the ratchet member relative to the collar rotational movement of the basket unit relative to the collar pivoting movement of the ratchet follower energizing of the biasing member and pivoting movement of a component of the dispensing assembly relative to the collar . As also described below in various embodiments the projection and or the wing of the collar engages the ratchet member . In the state shown in however the projection and the wing are spaced apart from the ratchet member .

As illustrated the ratchet assembly can engage with the body portion of the multi chamber basket unit . In some embodiments one of the axle portions is partly received into the channel in the ratchet member . As shown the mating features e.g. teeth of the ratchet member can engage with the corresponding mating features e.g. grooves or notches in the axle portion of the basket unit . In certain implementations the engagement facilitates a generally rigid connection between the ratchet member and the body portion of the basket unit . In various embodiments the engagement of the ratchet member and the body portion inhibits rotation of the ratchet assembly and the basket unit relative to each other. The engagement can result in rotation of the ratchet assembly being transferred to the body portion of the basket unit . This can facilitate rotation of the basket unit as will be discussed in further detail below.

To facilitate clarity of presentation some components of the upper portion of the main housing are not shown in . For example the frame and lid assembly are not shown. Nevertheless some portions of the illustrated components may be connected to the frame . For example a first end of the ratchet follower can be hingedly connected to the frame such as with a fastener e.g. a screw . This can facilitate hinged movement of a portion of the ratchet follower relative to the frame other portions of the ratchet assembly or otherwise. In some embodiments the first end of the ratchet follower is pinned to the frame and the second end of the ratchet follower is able to pivot about the first end .

As previously discussed the arm at the second end of the ratchet follower can be connected with the biasing member . As shown the biasing member can also be connected with a mount or fastener such as a hook or screw which in turn is connected with the frame. As such downward pivoting movement of the ratchet follower e.g. about the first end can energize the biasing member thereby producing a restoring force on the second end of the ratchet follower .

In various embodiments the pivoting member includes a passage . As discussed in further detail below the passage can convey liquid beverage from the basket unit to the catch member . When the pivoting member is not in a position to convey the beverage to the catch member it can be configured to inhibit dripping outside the machine . For example the pivoting member can be positioned such that the rear portion of the passage is inclined downward and or away from the catch member . This can inhibit or prevent liquid residue in the passage from flowing into the catch member and thus can reduce the chance of unintentional liquid discharge e.g. drips from the dispensing nozzle . In some embodiments when the pivoting member is not in a position to convey the beverage to the catch member it can be configured to route drips to a reservoir not shown such as a waste bin unit can be located generally or directly below the basket unit .

With regard to the beverage production assembly is shown in a state for dispensing a liquid beverage from the first chamber . In this state the dispensing assembly is in fluid communication with the first outlet port of the basket unit . In various embodiments a liquid e.g. water can be introduced into a cartridge not shown located in the first chamber to produce the beverage. The beverage can exit the cartridge e.g. via a porous bottom pass through the bottom of the first chamber through the first conduit and into the passage in the pivoting member . In some embodiments during the dispensing process the beverage flows from the basket unit to the dispensing assembly in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis RA. In certain variants during the dispensing process the beverage flows from the basket unit to the dispensing assembly in a direction that is not perpendicular to e.g. generally parallel with the axis RA.

In some embodiments whether the dispensing assembly is in fluid communication with the basket unit is a function of the position of the collar . For example in the illustrated embodiment the collar has rotated into a position such that the notch in the flange of the collar is circumferentially aligned with the cam on the pivoting member of the dispensing assembly . This can result in the bias of the biasing member e.g. torsional spring encouraging the cam into the notch which in turn can result in the pivoting member moving toward the first outlet port of the basket unit . This can provide a fluid communication path between the first outlet of the basket and the passage of the pivoting member of the dispensing assembly . As shown in certain embodiments the pivoting member can receive some or all of the first outlet port of the basket . As shown the pivoting member is angled downward thereby allowing the liquid to flow down the passage and into the catch member by force of gravity. The liquid can flow from the catch member to the dispensing nozzle for dispensing to the cup or other vessel.

In certain variants the catch member is configured to encourage the liquid to flow toward and out of the dispensing nozzle . For example the catch member can be configured to pivot such that an end of the catch member with the dispensing nozzle is lower than an opposite end of the catch member . For example the catch member can include hinge features such as pins that pivotally connect with other portions of the machine such as with the frame . During the dispensing portion of the beverage preparation process the catch member can be pivoted e.g. by an actuator or other mechanism such that gravity encourages the liquid to flow toward and through the dispensing nozzle .

In some implementations the catch member can include a funnel member in communication with the pivoting member during dispensing of the beverage. The funnel member can be inclined with a lower portion at or near an inlet of the dispensing nozzle thereby allowing gravity to encourage the liquid to flow toward and out of the dispensing nozzle . In certain embodiments because the funnel member is configured to encourage flow of the liquid in the funnel member during dispensation to the cup the funnel member can reduce the likelihood of liquid remaining in the catch member . This can inhibit or avoid dripping from the funnel member and or the dispensing nozzle . In some embodiments the funnel member includes a low friction material and or coating which can reduce the chance and or amount of liquid residue remaining in the funnel member .

In some embodiments rotation of the basket unit can aid in ejecting or otherwise removing a used or unwanted cartridge from one of the chambers . For example after a cartridge that was loaded into one of the chamber has been used to prepare a beverage that chamber can be rotated to eject the cartridge from the chamber. This is because as a result of the rotation the chamber that was in the loading position has been rotated to be generally downwardly oriented position e.g. the inverted position thereby facilitating ejection e.g. by force of gravity or otherwise of a cartridge in that chamber. In certain embodiments after ejection of the cartridge from a chamber liquid e.g. water is introduced into that chamber to rinse away debris and or residual beverage. In certain such implementations an interior surface of the chamber e.g. a radially inwardly facing surface and or one of the sealing members can be rinsed with the introduced liquid.

As shown in the collar has rotated e.g. in a clockwise direction about the axis RAthat is generally perpendicular to the axis RAof rotation of the basket unit . This has engaged the projection of the collar with the arm of the ratchet member which has rotated about the axis RA e.g. in a counter clockwise direction . As previously noted because of the engagement of the mating features of the basket unit and the ratchet member rotation of the ratchet member can result in rotation of the basket unit as well. As such the rotation of the ratchet member has resulted in the basket unit being rotated about the axis RAas well. In some implementations the axis of rotation RApasses between sidewalls of the main housing e.g. in between a wall near the liquid reservoir and frother and a wall on the opposite side of the main housing . In certain variants the axis of rotation RApasses between a front and rear of the main housing .

As shown due to the rotation of the ratchet member the bosses on the ratchet member have been rotated relative to the ratchet follower . This rotation has resulted in one of the bosses being separated from the ramps of the ratchet follower and the other of the bosses being moved along the first ramp of the ratchet follower . As shown the boss is positioned at about an apex between the ramps . As will be discussed below with continued rotation of the collar and ratchet assembly the boss will pass the apex and begin to descend along the second ramp .

As shown the movement boss of the ratchet member along the ramp of the ratchet follower has resulted in the second end of the ratchet follower being pivoted e.g. generally downwardly relative to the first end of the ratchet follower . In some embodiments such movement of the second end of the ratchet follower is against the bias of the biasing member which tends to energize e.g. elongate the longitudinal length of the biasing member . For example in the position shown in the biasing member has an elongated length spanning from the fastener connected with frame to the arm of the ratchet follower . Such elongation of the biasing member can produce a biasing force such as a force encouraging the second end of the ratchet member generally upwardly.

With reference to the collar has been further rotated relative to . As shown the projection is no longer in engagement with the arm of the ratchet member . In some embodiments the wing on the collar engages one of the ribs on the ratchet member . In some variants further rotation of the collar about the rotational axis RAcan result in additional rotation of the ratchet member about the rotational axis RA which in turn can result in further rotation of the basket unit .

In some embodiments the biasing member can motivate at least one of the bosses on the ratchet member to traverse along e.g. slide relative to the second ramp . This is because the biasing force from the biasing member is encouraging the second end of the ratchet follower generally upwardly. That force can be transmitted through the ratchet follower to the engagement between the second ramp and the boss . As the second ramp is at an angle relative to the direction of the transmitted biasing force the boss can be encouraged to traverse e.g. slide down a portion of the second ramp . In some embodiments movement of the boss along the second ramp results in further rotation of the ratchet member and thus the basket unit . In some embodiments such rotation of the ratcheting member via the engagement of the boss and the second ramp rotates the ratchet member even when the projection and or wing of the collar are not engaged with the arm of the ratchet member .

As shown in as the basket unit nears the end of the rotational movement the boss that had been separated from the ratchet follower can engage the first ramp . This can aid in stabilizing the basket unit and or ratchet member and or can facilitate additional rotational movements as discussed in further detail below.

In certain embodiments the basket unit can be rotated an additional amount. For example the basket unit can be rotated so as to return to approximately its initial position such as is shown in . In some embodiments the basket unit is rotated the additional amount by the same or similar features and actions as those described above regarding such as by engagement of the ratchet assembly and the collar . For example in some implementations the projection of the collar can rotate into engagement with one of the arms of the ratchet member which can result in rotation of the ratchet member and the basket unit e.g. from the position shown in toward the position shown in . In certain embodiments the additional rotation causes the basket unit to make approximately another half flip thereby completing approximately a complete revolution also called a full flip from the position shown in .

Various embodiments of the beverage production assembly can thus be configured to position the basket unit in at least two rotational positions. For example the basket unit can be positioned in a first position in which the first chamber is in a loading position e.g. oriented generally upwardly and a second position in which the second chamber is in the loading position. In certain embodiments when one of the chambers is in the loading position the other of the chambers is inverted. Additional details regarding the rotation of the basket unit can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 256 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH MULTI CHAMBERED BASKET UNITS which is filed on the same day as the present application and the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments the basket unit may comprise an ejection mechanism that facilitates removal of a cartridge from a chamber. As previously discussed the chamber may be configured to hold the cartridge and or one or more beverage precursors also called dosing material and or a dose of material used for the preparation of a beverage. The basket unit can be oriented in a plurality of configurations including at least a first configuration and a second configuration. The ratchet member can be configured to rotate the basket unit between the first and second configurations. In some embodiments the first configuration has the basket unit oriented such that the first chamber is oriented in a generally upward direction and the second configuration has the basket unit oriented such that the first chamber is oriented in a generally downward direction. After the beverage is produced the ratchet assembly may rotate the basket unit into the second configuration.

In some embodiments the basket unit is configured such that the ejection mechanism ejects the cartridge from the chamber in or near the inverted position. In certain variants the ejection mechanism may begin ejecting the cartridge during the course of rotation of one of the chambers toward the inverted position. For example the cartridge can be ejected prior to the chamber achieving the inverted position. In some implementations the cartridge begins moving e.g. sliding relative to the corresponding chamber when that chamber is rotating toward the inverted position. For example when the chamber is less than or equal to about 75 from the inverted position.

In some embodiments the ejection mechanism is configured to passively eject the cartridge from the first chamber and or second chamber . For example the ejection mechanism can be configured such that the cartridge is ejected from the chamber by force of gravity. In certain variants as the basket unit moves into the second generally downward facing configuration the weight of the cartridge and the beverage precursor and liquid therein can encourage the cartridge to move e.g. to fall generally in a downward direction. In certain implementations the basket unit is adapted to not support the cartridge in the inverted position. As such when the basket unit is in the inverted position the cartridge can be separated from the first chamber by force of gravity. In some embodiments some of the liquid introduced into the cartridge during the beverage preparation process can remain in the cartridge e.g. in the beverage precursor and or cartridge . This can increase the weight of the beverage precursor and or cartridge which can facilitate ejecting the cartridge from the first chamber . Although the examples above are in connection with the first chamber the second chamber can also be configured for passive cartridge ejection.

In some embodiments the ejection mechanism is configured to actively eject the cartridge from the first chamber and or second chamber . This can aid in ejecting certain cartridges. For example in some instances the cartridge may be adhered to e.g. form a seal with the first chamber which can inhibit or prevent the removal of the cartridge by gravity alone. This adherence may be amplified by the cartridge being wet from the brewing process. Although certain examples are discussed herein in connection with the first chamber the second chamber can also be configured for active cartridge ejection.

With reference now to an illustrated embodiment of in some variations an ejection mechanism is configured to actively eject the cartridge by applying a force to the cartridge such as to the bottom of the cartridge. For example in certain embodiments force can be applied to the cartridge by one or more translating members such as pins .

As illustrated in the first chamber can include a bottom portion with one or more apertures . The pins can be configured to extend through the one or more apertures into the first chamber . Some embodiments include one two three four five six seven eight nine ten or more of the pins . In some embodiments the pins are generally equally spaced apart from each other. For example the embodiment illustrated includes four pins that are spaced by about 90 around a circumference of the bottom portion .

In some embodiments some or each of the pins are biased by a respective biasing element . For example each of the pins can be biased in a direction toward the first chamber . The biasing element may comprise a coil spring e.g. as illustrated in a leaf spring or otherwise. In some embodiments the biasing element comprises metal e.g. stainless steel which may be more resistant to damage from typical usage than plastic and which may be better suited to shock loading and vibration than plastic. However other materials e.g. plastic are also possible. Other shapes and types of biasing elements are also possible.

When the basket unit is in an upright configuration e.g. the loading position of the bottom of the cartridge engages the pins. This can result in the weight of the beverage precursor and or cartridge acting against the force of the biasing elements thereby partly or completely overcoming the biasing force of the biasing elements and depressing the one or more pins downwardly e.g. partly or completely out of the first chamber . When the basket unit is rotated into a downward configuration e.g. the inverted position such as is shown in the weight of the beverage precursor and or cartridge may no longer be acting against the bias of the biasing member. This can allow the biasing element to encourage the pins into the first chamber . The pins can engage against the cartridge e.g. in a generally downward direction thereby encouraging ejection of the cartridge.

In some embodiments the one or more pins may comprise a flange or lip . The lip can extend wider than the aperture to inhibit or prevent the pin from fully entering the first chamber and or from being pushed by the biasing element into the first chamber . In some embodiments a portion of the biasing element can engage with the lip .

In some embodiments the ejection mechanism may be configured e.g. shaped to orient the pins within the apertures . For example each of the pins can have a flat side e.g. on the lip that inhibits rotation of the ejection mechanism within the aperture .

In some implementations one or more of the pins is configured to inhibit pivoting of the pin relative to the aperture which could result in kinking of the pin in the aperture . For example the lip can be configured to slidingly engage a wall of a recess in the basket unit and to have sufficient longitudinal length to inhibit kinking of the pin in the aperture. In some implementations the longitudinal length of the lip compared to the longitudinal length of the pin is at least about 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 5 1 6 1 8 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise.

In some embodiments two or more of the internal elements of the basket unit may be integrated. For example the ejection mechanism and the biasing element may comprise a single piece of plastic or metal or two pieces of plastic or metal that are coupled e.g. welded adhered or otherwise . Other combinations are also possible.

In some embodiments the ejection mechanism is configured to pry the cartridge from one or more of the chambers as is shown in . For example the ejection mechanism can include a finger or lever connected with the frame . In some implementations the chambers rotate relative to the lever. The lever can be configured to contact or otherwise engage a flange on the cartridge during such relative rotation. The lever can exert a force on the flange so as to encourage dislodging of the cartridge from the chamber . In some variants the lever encourages the cartridge in a direction generally away from the first chamber so as to disengage the cartridge from the chamber . The lever may comprise a single piece of plastic or metal or two pieces of plastic or metal that are coupled e.g. welded adhered or otherwise . In some embodiments the lever is adjacent to a side wall of the first chamber such that it is configured to rest underneath the flange of the cartridge . When activated the lever may exert a force on the flange propelling the cartridge away from the first chamber . The lever can be actuated in any fashion understood by one of skill in the art e.g. spring loaded mechanical force manual force etc. .

In some embodiments the ejection mechanism uses fluid e.g. water to facilitate ejection. For example the ejection mechanism can be configured to introduce fluid e.g. water into one of the chambers . The fluid may act to loosen any connection e.g. seal between the cartridge and the bottom portion of the first chamber . The fluid may enter the chamber before during or after rotation to the second configuration. For example the ejection mechanism can include a valve configured to selectively open and close a resilient conduit through which liquid e.g. prepared beverage can travel. In some embodiments the valve can pinch or otherwise depress a portion of the conduit thereby closing the conduit. When the valve is closed liquid e.g. water can be introduced into the upwardly facing chamber and proceed to the portion of the conduit that is closed by the valve. The liquid can then be directed through another conduit to the downwardly facing chamber. Thus liquid can be provided against the bottom of the cartridge. The pressure of the liquid on the cartridge and or the weight of the liquid on the bottom of the inverted cartridge can facilitate ejection of the cartridge from the chamber. In certain embodiments after ejection of the cartridge from a chamber liquid e.g. water is introduced into that chamber to rinse away debris and or residual beverage.

In some variants liquid can be conveyed into or against a pivoting element e.g. a teeter totter element associated with the dispensing element. In some embodiments the teeter totter element can rotate upward and downward in conjunction with vertical movement of the basket unit .

In some embodiments the ejection mechanism comprises features configured to space the cartridge from the bottom of the chambers . This can reduce the likelihood of a vacuum being established between the cartridge and the bottom of the chambers. In some variants the bottom portion of the first chamber may comprise one or more projections extending into the chamber and configured to reduce the amount of surface contact between the cartridge and the bottom portion of the first chamber . For example the projections can inhibit or prevent the cartridge from sitting flush against the bottom portion . In some variants the cartridge may comprise projections e.g. extending from the bottom of the cartridge . Such cartridge projections can be configured to reduce the surface contact between the cartridge and the bottom portion of the first chamber . In some embodiments the chamber and or the cartridge may comprise other geometric features to reduce the likelihood of a vacuum being established between the cartridge and the bottom of the chamber. These geometric features may include but are not limited to recesses and or texturizing on the cartridge and or the chamber.

Other ejection mechanisms may include but are not limited to a movable bottom portion to push the cartridge out of the first chamber a scoop to remove the contents of the first chamber one or more pins located at the side or corner of the first chamber etc. Ejection mechanisms may be used in combination with one another e.g. the use of pins and gravity pins gravity and fluid etc. or alone.

In some embodiments the basket unit may comprise a single chamber. The ejection mechanisms disclosed herein may be applied to a basket unit comprising a single chamber. In some embodiments at least one of the ejection mechanisms disclosed herein will be associated with the second chamber . In some embodiments at least one of the ejection mechanisms disclosed herein will be associated with both the first chamber and the second chamber . In some variants the first chamber and second chamber will employ the same ejection mechanism . In some variants the first chamber and the second chamber will employ different ejection mechanisms .

Various embodiments and examples of beverage preparation machines and methods have been described herein. Although certain embodiments and examples have been described herein with respect to cartridges for producing coffee beverages the machine described herein can be configured to receive cartridges containing other particulate materials or components for producing many other types of beverages such as a chocolate based product e.g. hot cocoa tea juice soup broth and other beverages. Further although some embodiments have been disclosed in which liquid is introduced into the cartridge the introduction of other phases is contemplated. For example in some embodiments steam or a combination of steam and liquid water is introduced into the cartridge. Additionally although certain embodiments have been disclosed that include a single beverage component or precursor the term beverage component or precursor is not limited to only a single component. Rather the beverage component or precursor can comprise one component e.g. coffee or a plurality of components e.g. coffee and a sweetener .

As used herein the term beverage in addition to having its ordinary meaning can include among other things any liquid or substantially liquid substance or product having a flowing quality such as juices coffee beverages teas frozen yogurt beer wine cocktails liqueurs spirits cider soft drinks flavored water energy drinks soups broths combinations of the same or the like. The term cartridge as used herein shall be given its ordinary and customary meaning and includes among other things cartridges capsules cups pods pucks pads and the like whether or not such cartridge is capable of being pierced or otherwise ruptured in order to form an inlet and or outlet for the cartridge.

Furthermore the disclosed apparatus systems and methods may be used or employed in a commercial setting such as at a coffeehouse or coffee shop or in a residential setting such as at a user s home. While the term user may be referred to as a barista in some embodiments and applications the user may include other individuals such as a manager employee customer client colleague family member friend acquaintance or any other individual. In some embodiments the user may include a machine instead of or in addition to a person.

Although this disclosure describes certain embodiments and examples of beverage preparation machines it will be understood by those skilled in the art that many aspects of the methods and devices shown and described in the present disclosure may be differently combined and or modified to form still further embodiments or acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. Indeed a wide variety of designs and approaches are possible and are within the scope of this disclosure. No feature structure or step disclosed herein is essential or indispensable. Moreover while illustrative embodiments have been described herein the scope of any and all embodiments having equivalent elements modifications omissions combinations e.g. of aspects across various embodiments adaptations and or alterations as would be appreciated by those in the art based on the present disclosure. Although there may be some embodiments within the scope of this disclosure that are not expressly recited above or elsewhere herein the present disclosure contemplates and includes all embodiments within the scope of what this disclosure shows and describes. Further this disclosure contemplates and includes embodiments comprising any combination of any structure material step or other feature disclosed anywhere herein with any other structure material step or other feature disclosed anywhere herein.

Furthermore certain features that are described in this disclosure in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the combination may be claimed as a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Moreover while operations may be depicted in the drawings or described in the specification in a particular order such operations need not be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all operations be performed to achieve desirable results. Other operations that are not depicted or described can be incorporated in the example methods and processes. For example one or more additional operations can be performed before after simultaneously or between any of the described operations. Further the operations may be rearranged or reordered in other implementations. Also the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single product or packaged into multiple products.

For purposes of this disclosure certain aspects advantages and novel features are described herein. Not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Thus for example those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves one advantage or a group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

Unless otherwise explicitly stated articles such as a or an should generally be interpreted to include one or more described items. Accordingly phrases such as a device configured to are intended to include one or more recited devices. Such one or more recited devices can also be collectively configured to carry out the stated recitations. For example a processor configured to carry out recitations A B and C can include a first processor configured to carry out recitation A working in conjunction with a second processor configured to carry out recitations B and C.

Language of degree used herein such as the terms approximately about generally and substantially as used herein represent a value amount or characteristic close to the stated value amount or characteristic that still performs a desired function or achieves a desired result. For example the terms approximately about generally and substantially may refer to an amount that is within less than 10 of within less than 5 of within less than 1 of within less than 0.1 of and within less than 0.01 of the stated amount. As another example in certain embodiments the terms generally parallel and substantially parallel refer to a value amount or characteristic that departs from exactly parallel by less than or equal to 15 10 5 3 1 0.1 or otherwise. Similarly in certain embodiments the terms generally perpendicular and substantially perpendicular refer to a value amount or characteristic that departs from exactly perpendicular by less than or equal to 15 10 5 3 1 0.1 or otherwise.

The language of the claims is to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to the examples described in the present specification or during the prosecution of the application which examples are to be construed as non exclusive.

Some embodiments have been described in connection with the accompanying drawings. However the figures are not drawn to scale. Distances angles etc. are merely illustrative and do not necessarily bear an exact relationship to actual dimensions and layout of the devices illustrated. Components can be added removed and or rearranged. Further the disclosure herein of any particular feature aspect method property characteristic quality attribute element or the like in connection with various embodiments can be used in all other embodiments set forth herein. Additionally it will be recognized that any methods described herein may be practiced using any device suitable for performing the recited steps.

In summary various illustrative embodiments and examples of beverage preparation machines have been disclosed. Although the beverage preparation machines have been disclosed in the context of those embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that this disclosure extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or other uses of the embodiments as well as to certain modifications and equivalents thereof. This disclosure expressly contemplates that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combined with or substituted for one another. Accordingly the scope of this disclosure should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above but should be determined only by a fair reading of the claims that follow as well as their full scope of equivalents.

