---

title: Flight object communications system
abstract: Systems and methods for processing aircraft flight information and flight plan information are described. Specific techniques are described for managing flight data in real time, sharing flight data between a plurality of systems, dynamically managing flight information, generating flight plan information, providing flight plan information to a user, and closing flight plan discontinuities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530320&OS=09530320&RS=09530320
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09530320
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
This application is related by subject matter to the following commonly assigned applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 502 823 entitled AUTOMATED FLIGHT OBJECT PROCEDURE SELECTION SYSTEM U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 503 013 entitled FLIGHT ANALOGOUS AND PROJECTION SYSTEM U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 503 123 entitled AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE PREDICTIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 503 179 entitled AUTOMATIC REAL TIME FLIGHT PLAN UPDATES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 503 236 entitled FLIGHT PATH DISCONTINUITIES all filed on Sep. 30 2014 the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The planning of a commercial airline s flight plan is a complex and dynamic process that must consider more than delivering passengers from point A to B. The planning of a commercial flight begins many hours and days before the flight actually departs. The process of planning replanning and updating a flight plan has many complexities that must be weighed and balanced to name a few the airline business case environmental i.e. noise emission airspace optimization weather aircraft performance passenger connections medical emergencies and alternatives. Each of these complexities are considerations that must be continuously monitored evaluated and balanced for a multitude of actors e.g. pilot dispatcher air traffic controllers in the system. These considerations must be incorporated when the flight plan is planned or replanned. If the flight has already commenced the flight plan is updated.

The flight plan is often viewed as a lengthy document that indicates an aircraft s planned and alternate flight route and includes information such as departure and arrival points estimated time enroute weather notices to airmen NOTAMs and type of flight. The large number of considerations that must be weighed and balanced in a real time iterative process mean that the generation and updating of the flight plan is a complex and labor intensive process.

Additional complexity is introduced when the flight plan must be communicated coordinated and collaborated with the multiple system actors. The flight plan must also meet domestic and international requirements. This process is time consuming prone to errors and labor intensive.

Standardized training computers and systems of computers have helped minimize errors reduced the time to generate and update a flight plan and diminished communication coordination and collaboration efforts and cost. Nevertheless the dynamic nature of the flight information that impact a flight plan makes it difficult to fully optimize the generation exchange and update of a flight plan in a timely and efficient manner prior to and after departure.

Computers or a system of computers introduce its own layer of complexity and associated cost. Each actor in the flight plan development process now becomes a user with the system of computers providing the flight plan. The flight plan and flight information must now be exchanged coordinated and acknowledged between all applicable systems where each system represents its respective user. As an example air traffic controllers receive and view the flight plan information with current status i.e. positional information on a radar scope type of display. In this example the flight plan information displayed for the controller is from both airborne and ground systems. In yet another example the pilot views the flight plan and flight information on a different system e.g. the Flight Management Computer FMC or the navigation display ND . Each system i.e. radar display or FMC has its own limitations and method of communicating and processing the flight plan and flight information.

In an effort to further reduce complexities to the user s and improve operational efficiency automated flight management and decision support tools along with computers are needed. However due to the dynamic nature of the flight plan and flight information the automated tools should also be dynamic. Dynamic Automated Tools DAT would facilitate the optimization and dynamic generation and updating of flight plan flight information flight efficiency flight optimization post flight analysis and flight efficiency advisories. DAT is needed to weigh and balance the multitude of considerations as well as collaborate and exchange the dynamic flight information in an optimized e.g. timely and cost efficient manner across multiple systems.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed can be achieved independently in various embodiments or combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

The subject matter disclosed herein includes systems and methods for processing airline air traffic control and aircraft flight information in real time preflight and post flight.

The subject matter disclosed herein includes systems and methods for dynamically managing flight information sharing flight information between a plurality of systems generating and updating flight information predicting flight information projecting flight information and providing flight information to a subscriber. Flight information is any information associated with a flight. Flight information is historical real time predicted and projected flight data. Flight information is processed in preflight real time and post flight. Examples of flight information include but are not limited to ATC flight plans speed profiles weather time fuel fuel categories user notes e.g. pilot notes air traffic controller notes aircraft performance parameters surveillance data subscriber preferences NOTAMS loadsheets clearances status messages FMC flight plans and Operational Flight Plans OFP . The result of the amalgamated flight information is a flight object.

A method of generating flight information can include receiving data associated with a flight into an object s on a computing device configured to generate and modify a flight object. Flight information is computed and extracted from the flight object s and rendered for viewing. The flight information is distributed across one or multiple systems. Flight information received as a flight plan entry contains flight departure and arrival procedures e.g. VFR IFR Airport routing preferences aircraft performance and flight constraints e.g. trip cost time fuel . The flight trajectory is determined from the flight plan contained in the flight object.

A flight plan and trajectory is optimized for cost time fuel passenger comfort airspace efficiency and safety i.e. weather terrain . Optimization algorithms prioritize the optimization preferences of one or multiple categories i.e. cost time fuel passenger comfort airspace efficiency safety for an integrated solution. The optimized solutions can be dynamically determined based on real time assessment of the current historical probable and predicted flight information. Optimization and efficiency advisories are provided for the departure arrival and approach lateral and vertical route business constraints i.e. crew cost crew rest flight schedule connecting passenger fuel loading and time profiles. The optimized flight information is rendered for viewing.

A method of communicating flight information between a plurality of systems is performed as a flight object. Individual flight information parameters can also be communicated. When multiple parameters of flight information need to be communicated it is advantageous to use a flight object. Subscribers may impose limitations to communicate the flight information. Therefore the method to communicate the flight information must be dynamic for the connection type and throughput. The flight object and flight object manager controls receiving transmitting and allowing access to flight information indicative to one or more flights.

Flight information is received or retrieved. The flight information is processed to determine if it is new or a modification. New flight information is processed to generate a new flight object. Updated flight information is processed to determine if the data is a duplication or an update to existing flight information. A flight can have more than one flight object. An example of a situation where a flight can have more than one flight object associated to it would be a second flight with the flight information weather that can be correlated to the first flight.

A method to correlate the flight information from a second or more flights to the first flight. The correlation of a flight object to another flight object is performed based on a holistic evaluation of each flight information parameter against one or more flight information categories of the second flight. This method enables multiple flight objects associated to a flight for an amalgamated embodiment of the first flight. A flight object can have multiple flight objects associated or embedded in the flight object 

Managing flight information involves real time synchronization and communication across multiple systems. The flight information and the flight object are communicated as flight messages. Each system has its own unique characteristics of interface bandwidth and storage limitations and messaging formats. The unique characteristics must be overcome to synchronize the flight information across multiple systems.

Flight messages hereafter referred to as messages are representative of the updated flight objects or flight information and are generated so as to be compatible with subscriber systems. The generated messages are communicated to the subscriber systems across the one or more networks.

Flight objects and information and optimized solutions of the flight information and object can be projected to an active inactive secondary or alternate flight plan. The user is also provided the option to apply analogous flight history data to a flight plan thus allowing the user to observe a projected outcome. Furthermore the user is allowed to manipulate or tailor the flight history data to observe hypothetical projections.

The use of analogous data to provide what if flight plan scenario manipulations is useful because real time data is typically not available that is used for planning a flight s trajectory fuel loading departure time and determining enroute weather.

In at least one embodiment the flight object management function includes functionality that allows an approved user to view and select one or more procedures applicable to a flight. The list of applicable procedures includes the most efficient route which is automatically determined based on currently available information including the total current aerodrome environment. The automation used to select the most efficient route considers course to the destination time fuel airline costs distance weather direct routing and back courses. However the most efficient route varies depending on the currency and probability of real time and forecasted flight and aerodrome information. The determination of the efficient route also takes into account the selected timeframe so as to determine the most advantageous time based route. The efficient route accounts for the total current aerodrome environment as well as the business and operational considerations of the airline air traffic controller weather environment terrain and regulatory restrictions.

In at least one embodiment a system and method can include receiving data indicative of one or more flight objects. Flight information is extracted from the flight objects and rendered for viewing. A flight plan entry associated with the flight information is received. Procedures are searched and optimized departure arrival and approach routing information is identified. The optimized routing information is rendered for viewing.

In at least one embodiment the flight object management function includes functionality that allows an authorized user to dynamically make changes to a flight plan and communicate the changes across multiple or local systems and subscribers. The changes are synchronized across the multiple or local systems. In order to accomplish this synchronization messages are automatically generated for each of the systems and subscriber s communication protocols. The systems and subscribers include the on board flight management system mobile devices local agencies and ATC. The changes their status and associated information can be viewed in real time. By providing a way to update flight plans from heterogeneous systems dynamic updates to flight plans from various sources can be accommodated in an efficient manner.

In one embodiment a system and method of communicating flight data between a plurality of systems can include receiving data indicative of flight objects. Flight information is extracted from the flight objects and rendered for viewing and editing along with real time airspace environment data pertaining to the flight information. Modifications to the flight information are received and updates to the flight objects are generated. Messages representative of the updated flight objects are generated that are compatible with subscriber systems. The generated messages are communicated to the subscriber systems across the one or more networks.

In some embodiments the flight object management function includes functionality that allows an approved user pilot dispatcher air traffic controller to view a graphical depiction of an active flight plan in conjunction with multiple flight plans and flight histories. In one embodiment specific flight history data past flight plan or flight history most related to the active flight plan is highlighted or annunciated. Various options are configurable by the user. For example options can be configured by similar route speeds altitude aircraft type date range origin destination departure time arrival time tail number pilot s name or flight number of one or more airline operators. In one embodiment all data stored in the flight history database are searched and the flights or flight data most analogous to the active flight plan are identified.

In one embodiment a system and method of generating projected flight information can include inputting flight objects to a computing device configured with a flight object management function. Flight information can be derived manually entered or sensed data. Flight information optimization and efficient computations are performed and the results and active flight information is rendered for viewing. Flight history data is identified that is analogous to the active flight information. A selection of a portion of the analogous flight history data is received and based on the selected analogous flight history data a projection of the analogous flight history data is projected on the active flight information.

In some embodiments the flight object management function includes functionality that generates aircraft performance predictions based on real time flight information manually entered flight information historical flight information probabilities current predictions and pilots notes. Based on this information new optimization opportunities are identified and updated flight predictions are generated. Examples of predictions include new or updated departure times probability of holds at a waypoint forecasted and in situ weather airspace delays probable approach procedures or runways and other performance related predictions. The predictions are accompanied by a probability distribution that indicates the expected likelihood of the prediction. Additionally flight history data including pilot notes is used to generate new or updated flight plan and aircraft performance predictions such as fuel loads fuel burn rates cost index flight times hold times arrival times flight path updates step climbs and other performance related predictions and their probabilities.

In one embodiment a system and method of generating predicted flight plan information can include accessing one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with a flight object management function. The one or more flight objects are associated with a planned flight. A request for flight information pertaining to the planned flight is received. Flight information pertaining to the planned flight and associated airspace environment is determined and event probability and predictions for the planned flight is generated based on the associated and correlated flight information.

In some implementations the flight object management function includes functionality that captures and compiles current and predicted flight information in real time and automatically makes that data available to the user s device to update the original filed flight plan. The user s device can be a mobile computing device executing the efficiency and operational flight object system. The updated flight plan data is sent to the FMC via a ground or airborne service using one of a plurality of communications channels that is manually selected by the user or automatically selected by the user s device based on selection criteria. For example the user s device can send the data through the onboard network system ONS to the internet directly via the internet or an intranet or other physical or wireless connection USB BLUETOOTH etc. .

In one embodiment a system and method of providing flight plan information to a user can include receiving a flight object by a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system. The flight object is processed to identify flight plan information pertaining to a planned flight associated with an aircraft. The identified flight plan information is rendered on a user interface of the computing device. Real time flight information pertaining to the aircraft is received as the aircraft conducts the planned flight. Based on the real time flight information the flight plan information contained in the flight object is updated. The updated flight plan information is provided to the computing device for rendering on the computing device.

In some embodiments the efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that automatically generates flight plans secondary or alternate flight plans for a subscriber where the generated flight plans are free of discontinuities. The efficiency and operational flight object system determines if and where discontinuities exist in a flight plan. If discontinuities exist the discontinuities are automatically removed and a discontinuity free flight plan is generated based on the communication protocol for the subscriber. The efficiency and operational flight object system can also add discontinuities in some instances for example in scenarios involving ATC restrictions minimize pilot training or to place emphasis an area requiring additional pilot focus. In some embodiments discontinuities may be added and remove in the same flight plan. For example a configuration may require adding discontinuities for the departure procedures but removing all discontinuities from the arrival procedures.

In one embodiment a system and method of closing flight plan discontinuities can include accessing one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system. A flight plan is identified in the one or more flight objects. The flight plan is associated with a first subscriber. An indication of a second subscriber for the flight plan is received. Using the flight plan flight information that is free of discontinuities is generated based at least in part on requirements associated with the second subscriber.

One or more embodiments described herein relate generally to the processing of flight information. Flight information pertains to information related to one or more flights. Flight information is historical real time actual predicted and projected flight data. Flight information is processed in preflight in flight and post flight in real time and post processing. Examples of flight information include but are not limited to ATC flight plan FMC flight plan historical flight actual information speed profiles weather time fuel fuel categories pilot notes air traffic controller notes aircraft performance parameters surveillance data subscriber preferences NOTAMS loadsheets clearances status messages advisories voice transcripts pictures or images FMC prediction and intent data and the dispatched Operational Flight Plans OFP . The result of the amalgamated flight information is a flight object. Flight information can be received from either a ground source or from an aircraft in the form of a flight message. The air and ground source can operate using its own unique format or standard industry format specification.

Planning flight operations typically involve the generation and use of flight plans. Flight plans may be used to document information such as departure and arrival points estimated time enroute weather various waypoints the aircraft must traverse enroute information pertaining to those waypoints such as actual or estimated altitude and speed of the aircraft at those waypoints information relating to legs of the flight between those waypoints and aircraft predicted performance.

Flight plans may be used to document basic information such as departure and arrival points estimated time enroute various waypoints that the aircraft must traverse enroute information pertaining to those waypoints such as actual or estimated altitude and speed of the aircraft at those waypoints information relating to legs of the flight between those waypoints and aircraft predicted performance. This type of flight plan may be used to construct a flight trajectory including the various legs of the flight which are connected to the various waypoints along the route. Flight plans may be used to construct a flight trajectory including the various legs of the flight which are connected to various waypoints along the route. The flight trajectory may include a lateral trajectory defined in the horizontal plane and a vertical trajectory defined in the vertical plane. The flight trajectory may also include the element of time across the horizontal and vertical planes. Flight intent information generally refers to the future flight trajectory of an aircraft expressed as a four dimensional profile until destination. Flight prediction information also relates to the future flight trajectory however it is generally limited to a pilot s perspective of information pertinent to the flight. Flight intent information may contain additional flight parameters required by ground systems. Ground systems would use the additional information to perform functions such as the issuance of speed or time clearances.

Various sources may be used for generation of a flight route flight plan flight intent and flight trajectory. Some the sources may include the aircraft air traffic control an airline operations center a flight management computer or another ground source. Any particular source of flight information may represent a particular view of the overall flight and aircraft state of a particular aircraft. As an example an aircraft downlink message and a flight message from an Air Navigation Service Provider ANSP may provide a view of a flight or a set of flight information describing the flight route plan intent or trajectory of a flight from the perspective of the ANSP. Each message from different sources may reflect the current conditions known to that particular system i.e. the sensed entered and calculated flight information data such as flight plan aircraft state etc. . In yet another example if surface winds change at the destination thus the landing runway changes the aircraft downlink message may not reflect this change until the information has been entered in the applicable systems for that particular flight.

In at least one embodiment a flight information object or a flight object is a software container of information pertaining to a particular flight. For example a flight information object can be a data structure comprising flight data fields and methods for their interactions. The flight information object can include a plurality of fields containing flight information such as elements of flight plans flight routes flight trajectories flight messages aircraft state data such as weight center of gravity fuel remaining etc. and environmental information. Environmental information pertains to weather information for a flight. Weather information includes wind speed direction as well as vertical component pressure energy indexes temperature moisture humidity snow rain hail confidence indexes quality indexes and location and time of said weather. Environmental information also includes information regarding turbulence location of the tropopause noise particulates or icing levels. Flight information received as a flight plan entry may contain flight departure and arrival procedures e.g. VFR IFR Airport routing preferences aircraft performance and flight constraints e.g. trip cost time fuel . The flight trajectory is determined from the flight plan contained in the flight object.

In another embodiment the flight information object can include one or more pointers or indexes to the locations of the raw or actual flight information. This is advantageous when storing retrieving distributing and processing large quantities of flight information.

In at least one embodiment a ground based system for receiving a flight message from a ground source or downlinked from an aircraft includes flight plan route processing functions programmed to update the flight plan route in the received flight message based at least in part on environmental information and then uplink a flight message containing the updated flight plan route. In one example a process or methodology includes receiving a flight information message from an aircraft or a ground source e.g. an operations center . An aircraft or an operations center may transmit the flight plan route in a variety of formats using a variety of methods. For example a flight plan route message can be transmitted from an aircraft via the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System ACARS Aeronautical Telecommunication Network ATN internet or some other aircraft datalink technology e.g. broadband satellite IP . From air or ground sources the message can be transmitted and received in any unique format specified by the user e.g. an Aeronautical Operational Control datalink message type or in a standardized ground messaging format e.g. Type B .

In an example a process in accordance with one embodiment one or more flight information messages relating to a particular flight is received from a single source or from multiple sources. A flight message contains one or multiple pieces of information about a flight. When a flight message is received a respective local flight information object is instantiated and the flight message is stored in a respective local flight information object. A plurality of local flight information objects is generated and stored in computer memory for a particular flight. After a flight message has been received and stored in a local flight information object the flight message is parsed into data fields. The parsed data is also stored in the respective local flight information object.

System security interface functions can also be provided for input validity and access authentication. The system security interface functions can be part of a federated distributed security scheme for functions subsystems devices of the system employing the flight data functions described herein. If the input is invalid or access is not authorized access to data and functions may not be allowed.

Environmental information for the route between the departure gate and arrival gate including information about forecasted and in situ weather for the various waypoints along the route can affect a flight trajectory. For example if weather is forecasted for a particular waypoint along the route of the flight plan certain predictions for the flight path may be affected such as speed fuel consumption and time enroute. Weather information includes for example information collected from air and ground weather sources information about weather local to a particular operation center forecasted weather information for a number of locations. Aircraft weather information includes weather directly reported or derived from a number of aircraft.

Additionally revision of a flight plan includes deleting or adding waypoints modifying the position of waypoints or modifying the characteristics pertaining to the waypoints or legs between the waypoints such as the mannerism in which the aircraft maneuvers aircraft speed time of arrival at the waypoint or altitude. The characteristics for various waypoints or legs segments joined by waypoints or fixes further examples include weather bands. A weather band is a collection of environmental information for a specific or series of spatial points such as a specific altitude or a series of three or four dimensional points in space and time.

Airline operation centers and air traffic control centers identify and send information such as weather bands to an aircraft for use in determining how the weather information affects flight trajectory calculations. For example the weather bands identified can be based on current or predicted weather flight predictions flight intent or flight plans or may be default weather bands non specific to a particular flight trajectory. Actual weather can impact a predicted flight trajectory if the actual weather differs from the predicted weather used to calculate the predicted flight trajectory. Additionally different factors enroute can cause an aircrew to modify the flight plan and the environmental information from the operation or control center loaded during preflight may no longer be accurate or up to date for the modified flight plan. Inaccurate or dated environmental information can result in inefficiencies for flight operations such as an increase in fuel consumption and emissions or delay in flight time for example.

Users associated with an aircraft or flight can request a new flight plan and or new environmental information from a operations center or air traffic control center. The downlinked request can be accompanied or followed by current flight route or flight plan information for that aircraft. The downlinked flight route or flight plan information can include items such as a list of waypoints instrument departure procedures arrival and departure transitions airways Standard Terminal Arrival Routes STAR approach procedures fixes and leg types.

In general when a flight plan is received a user such as a pilot typically evaluates the information contained in the flight plan accesses relevant and contingent information as necessary updates the plan flight as needed or desired receives updates to the flight plan as updates become available and provides updates to the flight plan to the necessary parties. In various embodiments described herein a tool is described that allows pilots to evaluate view organize update and manipulate the flight plan in real time and annotate communicate and synchronize the changes across multiple or local systems among other functions. The tool is generally referred to herein as an efficiency and operational flight object system that can be implemented on one or more computing devices. When flight plans are downloaded or uploaded there may be delays and costs associated with the uplink and downlink service as well as time and effort for the pilot to obtain and process the information. A tool such as the efficiency and operational flight object system may be provided to allow a user such as a pilot to quickly and efficiently access evaluate update and transmit flight objects such as flight plans and flight efficiency advisories.

In one example embodiment a flight plan can be downloaded to a mobile device that implements or connects to the efficiency and operational flight object system and accesses a history for a particular flight and other available flight information such as notes from previous flights. The device is configured to receive advisories and receive information from other sources using various lines of communication. The user can modify the flight plan based on the available historical and real time flight information. After the flight plan is modified the modified flight plan is uplinked to a service provider which can be transmitted to the airline operations center AOC and sent to the Flight Management Computer FMC or other on board systems. The most recent flight plan and a history of the updated plans are maintained and can be made available for other users of the system.

By allowing access to flight plan information using computing devices such a mobile device flight planning activities can be implemented in an efficient manner while allowing for mobile use and collaboration. For example some or all of the functionality described herein with reference to processing of flight objects and associated flight information can be provided in the efficiency and operational flight object system and installed on a mobile device. The mobile device can initiate the plan route processing function in response to a prompt by the user the FMC or other input source. A mobile device implementing the efficiency and operational flight object system is referred to herein as a computing device that performs flight information processing flight planning processing or efficiency advisory processing device.

In various embodiments and examples described herein the efficiency and operational flight object system can be implemented in one or more computing devices. The efficiency and operational flight object system is configured to receive incoming flight information messages and process or generate a flight information object. The flight plan route processing function is configured to receive flight information messages that relate to the same flight from multiple sources. The computing devices that execute the flight plan route processing function can comprise a single processor or multiple processors for processing flight information. In at least one embodiment the flight plan route processing can be implemented in a portable or mobile computing device such as a tablet or laptop.

In at least one embodiment the efficiency and operational flight object system can include sub functions that are separate processes running on different computers networks or on one or more processors within the same computer. The computers can include a combination of mobile devices such as tablets and one or more servers.

Flight information messages and flight information objects can be received and updated in real time. As used herein the term real time refers to an action that is performed at a current time or at the next available time as opposed to being saved for action at a planned future or later time. A real time action may be performed with currently available information or with the most recently available information.

The efficiency and operational flight object system is configured to access information available from a number of databases such as weather information from a ground or air source aircraft current state data and aircraft performance databases. The flight plan route processing function is also configured to receive information directly from a number of aircraft and or operation centers such as the aircraft an operation center and ATC among others.

The efficiency and operational flight object system is also configured to access aircraft current state data including for example information pertaining to a number of aircraft. Aircraft current state data can include an identifier for an aircraft and current state information about that particular aircraft such as without limitation on ground climbing cruising descending altitude heading weight center of gravity speed and or any other suitable state data.

The efficiency and operational flight object system is also configured to access or generate aircraft predictions that can include a number of flight plans and associated predictions for the trajectory and weather of an aircraft based on the number of trajectories associated with respective flight plans. Aircraft predictions can include aircraft state data predictions associated with a number of points in time based on forecast derived and real time weather flight plan weight of aircraft aircraft configuration and or any other suitable information. Aircraft predictions can include a number of trajectories that are calculated from flight path information provided from either an aircraft or a ground source using flight path restrictions such as altitude speed and or time and planned flight events such as gear extension.

The efficiency and operational flight object system can determine data environments based on the input source. Some or all of the functionality of the flight planning processing device can be implemented on the device and can also be implemented by computers at a third party service provider AOC and other providers in the flight planning framework. The various functions and capabilities of the efficiency and operational flight object system may be distributed and information can be communicated using various datalinks such the Internet ACARS and other communications links. By having such distributed functionality and redundancy loss of any one communications link can allow flight planning operations to continue using another link.

In one illustrative example a pilot downloads a flight plan including route weather fuel and other flight information to a flight planning processing device executing some or all of the efficiency and operational flight object system. The flight planning processing device communicates if a network is available to one or more servers or other data sources to obtain flight plan information. Prior to departure the preliminary flight plan and operational flight plan can also become available for download. Using the flight planning processing device flight information in the preliminary and operational flight plans are optimized and prioritized for viewing on the flight planning processing device.

In some cases the pilot may discover a mismatch between the flight plan in the FMC and the flight plan downloaded on the flight planning processing device. Alternatively the pilot may have other reasons for desiring to update the flight plan information e.g. deleting a waypoint such as an unexpected change in the weather forecast or air traffic. The flight planning processing device provides one or more methods for editing the flight plan information and allows inputs such as user notes for future reference or for reference by other users. Such inputs can be provided on the device using automation and manual entry methods. Manual entry methods can include a hard or soft keypad freehand inputs voice or video recording photographs or selection of a known and reused grouping of comments. Automation methods include but are not limited to systems that decode and or decrypt flight messages to ascertain information related to the particular flight. Using the flight planning processing device the user can view the user comments and a history of the comments for that particular flight or any flight.

The efficiency and operational flight object system is also configured to provide efficiency technologies for viewing and managing flight information. For example the flight plan information may contain discontinuities that can be removed in an automated fashion by the efficiency and operational flight object system. The efficiency and operational flight object system in some embodiments also adds discontinuities in some instances for example in scenarios involving ATC restrictions minimize pilot training or to place emphasis an area requiring additional pilot focus. The efficiency and operational flight object system is configured to identify more efficient routes than what is currently identified in the flight plan information. The efficient routes can be based on one or more criteria. The user may is also provided the ability to view what if scenarios to determine impacts on changing conditions such as a change to the departure route. For example the pilot can view other applicable runways based on possible relationships between routes and runways. The efficiency and operational flight object system is configured to identify available options evaluates routes based on available constraints and criteria consider course reversals automatically based on the core set and the intended route and identify the most efficient route.

The efficiency and operational flight object system is also configured to perform performance analysis such as predictive and probable analysis of a flight route from user notes user configuration flight history information and real time flight information. For example if the history indicates a high probability of a hold the pilot can adjust adding extra fuel amounts accordingly. In yet another example the efficiency and operational flight object system can calculate the probability that the hold will be a reality for that particular flight. The option for performance analysis can also be provided based on the context of the user s activities on the device.

By using such an efficiency and operational flight object system users such as pilots can access view modify and upload flight information in real time in an efficient and user friendly platform instead of being limited to manual viewing and editing on paper and entering information on installed devices such as the FMC which have limited viewing and processing. Providing functionality of an efficiency and operational flight object system can provide greater flexibility efficiency and configurability to flight personnel. Further details are now described.

Referring to illustrated is one embodiment of an efficiency and operational flight object system . The efficiency and operational flight object system in this example includes ground server web application and mobile application . Ground server further includes a flight object data warehouse flight object services component flight information services component and a SOAP web service .

The ground server can be located physically or virtually on the ground or on an airborne platform. The ground server is configured to provide services by responding to requests to store process and deliver flight information and flight efficiency requests and advisories. The ground server provides service as a database server file server web server and application server.

The ground server includes a flight object data warehouse that is configured to maintain and store flight object data. The flight object data warehouse integrates flight information from various air and ground systems into one central location. The flight object data warehouse also integrates the original data from the source as well as derived flight information data. The flight object data warehouse serves as a repository for real time and historical flight information. Additionally the flight object data warehouse serves as an embodiment of the aggregated flight plan and single source of the real time flight plan.

The ground server also includes flight information services component that is configured to provide information for accessing various flight information. The flight information services component includes a message constructor surveillance service NOTAMs component weather service pre post departure component and order fuel component . The message constructor is configured to construct ACARS and Internet messages which are further detailed below. The weather service component is configured to access or receive weather data from multiple sources including in situ weather information and process the weather data to for example provide a subscriber with weather data for a particular geospatial location and time.

The surveillance service component is configured to process incoming aircraft surveillance data such as radar and flight messages with position data. The NOTAMs component is configured to process notices to airmen from aviation authorities to alert pilots of potential hazards and other information along a flight route. The information can be extracted or parsed from a flight plan for display to a user. The order fuel component is configured to interface and exchange information with other systems processes request from other services and generate orders for fuel. Pre post departure component is configured to perform various tasks pre flight and post flight including processing flight plan identifying aircraft status catering requests medical emergencies closing the flight and other user requests.

The ground server also includes flight object services component that is configured to provide functionality that will be described further herein including optimization and efficiency processor advisory service flight plan processing trajectory predictions messaging service navigation database information performance analytics probability and prediction services. In some embodiments this functionality is accessible via an Application Programming Interface API by web application and mobile application which implement at least a portion of the functionality provided by ground server . The web application and mobile application are configured to provide a subset of or full functionality based on a system configuration user configurations and user privileges such as administrators dispatchers pilots or AOC personnel.

Web application can be loaded and executed on a computing device such as a desktop computer and includes a map component official flight plan OFP component weather component route performance component pre post departure component order fuel component alternate airport component secondary route component and an optimization advisory component . The mobile application can be loaded on a mobile computing device such as a tablet computer and includes a map component operational flight plan OFP component weather component route performance component pre post departure component order fuel component alternate airport component secondary route component and an optimization advisory component .

The map component is configured to generate mapping and charting displays based on selected flight information. The OFP component is configured to receive and parse flight plan information and process and display the information. The route performance component is configured to process aircraft performance parameters pertaining to selected routes. The alternate airport component is configured to receive a selection of an alternative airport and alternate route and generate a recommendation for an alternative airport and alternate route. The secondary route component is configured to receive a selection of a secondary route and generate a recommendation for a secondary route. The secondary route component is also configured to provide the ability for a user to send information to a selected secondary route. The ground server also includes a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP interface for exchanging information between the ground server and the Web application and or the mobile application . The optimization advisory component is configured to receive advisory determined by the optimization and efficiency processor and advisory service . The optimization advisory component generates the optimization and efficiency advisories displayed on a computing device.

The flight object services component is the software and hardware framework used to calculate deliver and share flight plan aircraft weather trajectory and navigation information aircraft performance predictions and aircraft and internet messaging. The flight object services component is configured to process flight information user configuration files airline business model algorithms and regulatory constraints to calculate optimization and flight efficiency opportunities. The flight object services component is also configured to process and determine several functions to be performed. One or more of these functions is used to determine an optimization or flight efficiency time fuel cost emissions advisory which is provided to an authorized subscriber such as a pilot air traffic controller or airline dispatcher. An example of another function that the flight object services performs is performance analytics and probability and predictive analysis of singular and multi dimensional current historical and derived flight information.

The flight object services component comprises multiple processors and an offline capability. The offline functionality uses a local cache for authentication roles and runtime settings data when a network or client connection is unavailable.

In the example depicted in the flight object services component includes a flight plan processor navigation database processor aircraft performance processor weather grid processor air ground messaging service and trajectory predictor processor . The flight object services component is configured to invoke trajectory predictor processor that determines flight trajectory predictions flight information such as the sequence of waypoints making up the flight plan route the aircraft type current aircraft equipage weather information and historical flight information in the flight object from the flight object data warehouse . The trajectory predictor processor incorporates or communicates with weather service component of the flight information services function . The weather service determines in situ and forecasted weather information associated with a flight trajectory. The weather service communicates the trajectory specific weather with the flight object data warehouse . The trajectory predictor processor also identifies aircraft state data for the identified aircraft currently flying in accordance with the received flight plan route. The trajectory predictor processor updates the original flight trajectory using the aircraft state navigation data current and forecasted weather information and the in situ weather information to create an updated predicted flight trajectory with selected weather bands in the flight object. The navigation database processor determines the navigational information valid for that particular date and flight. The navigation database processor communicates or makes the navigational data available for other services to access. One method for accomplishing this is by communicating the navigational data to the flight object data warehouse .

The trajectory predictor processor can add and or delete waypoints to the flight plan route that is stored in the flight object thereby creating a updated flight plan route. In one example the trajectory predictor processor can send a message to the mobile application indicating that an updated predicted flight trajectory and new flight plan route is available. In response to the message the flight object services component accesses the list of waypoints in the flight object representing the updated flight plan route and uses that processed list of waypoints to construct a payload for inclusion in a flight plan route message for transmission. Alternatively the flight object services component can send the flight object to the mobile application via API . The flight object services component sets a flag or sends a message to the messaging service indicating that a new flight plan route and or trajectory is ready for transmission i.e. uplinking . In another example the flight object services component accesses the latest updated flight plan route in the flight object and determines that an update was made by a subscriber and processes the updated information. An air ground messaging service is configured to make the appropriate interface connections schedule and perform the flight information message transmission.

Data such as a flight plan aircraft performance information pilot notes takeoff information and environmental information and the geospatial positions corresponding to the environmental information is provided to a message constructor for inclusion in an flight information transmission. The flight information communicated to the message constructor will also contain an aircraft identifier or user id and security information to complete the construction of the flight information message.

The message constructor is configured to construct a message header and construct a message comprising that header the flight plan route payload received from the flight object services and a cyclic redundancy check. The message is constructed in a message format specified by the message user in accordance with a dynamically settable user configuration stored in a user preferences database. This user configuration specifies which functions or processes are running in parallel and may also define connections to receive and transmit the data from the processors or databases shown in . The user configuration also specifies the behavior of the application. The message constructor communicates the constructed message to an air ground messaging service that then uses a transmitter or applicable internet connections to transmit the message to the proper address es . The message constructor takes selected information and constructs an outgoing message for the end user s in a specified user message format. As part of the message construction process the message constructor encodes the flight information message received from various sources. The flight information message is reviewed and accepted by the flight crew and then autoloaded into the flight management computer. In the case of an updated flight plan route message the message constructor takes the payload data representing the updated flight plan route from the flight object services component and constructs an outgoing message for the end user s in a specified user message format. In the case of an updated flight plan route message uplinked to an aircraft the updated flight plan route is reviewed and accepted by the flight crew on a device executing mobile application .

The flight object services function can be configured to perform the functions of translating and encoding flight information in a format suitable for inclusion in an updated flight plan route message. An incoming message is decoded by a decoder function configured to parse the message by separating the various flight information parameters for instance flight plan route current position speed altitude and in situ weather from one or more flight information messages. If the flight message was encrypted then the decoder executes a process in which the flight message is decrypted. The decoder parses data out of the flight plan route and all flight information parameters and maps that flight information data into applicable attribute fields of the flight object. The decoder converts user defined points such as latitude longitude floating waypoints place bearing distance or along track waypoints intersections and airways and flight procedures into associated waypoints by internal computations or by reference to a navigation database which stores navigation information pertaining to waypoints airports airways and procedures and customer information. Information retrieved from a navigation database can be stored in the flight object.

When an airway or procedure is identified in the flight plan route of the flight information message the decoder uses that airway or procedure information to perform a look up in a navigation database to query for additional data. For example if the flight plan route message identifies a standard instrument departure SID procedure which consists of a number of waypoints or fixes and a climb profile. The decoder uses the identified SID to query information in the navigation database. The navigation database query returns a listing of waypoints and other associated data. The returned waypoints are stored in the flight object.

The flight object services function is configured to translate the waypoints stored in the flight object into a list of waypoints representing a flight plan route. As part of this process the flight object services function determines which of these waypoints are applicable and in which order. The ordering of the waypoints is determined from the content of the message and adaptive logic guidelines. For example transition types indicating one method of movement from one point to the next can be derived from the message content. One example of a logic guideline includes for example the required security FMC operations and limitations aircraft state current or predicted flight information the aircraft type and or the airline operating the aircraft. Optionally duplicate or extraneous waypoints or waypoints that have been passed by the aircraft since the time when the flight plan route message was received are not included in the final list of waypoints. The listing of waypoints is stored in the flight object.

The flight object services adds reorders or deletes waypoints to the flight plan route that is stored in the flight object with the flight plan processor thereby creating a new flight plan route. The flight plan processor combines the updated list of waypoints in the flight object to form a new flight plan route by referring to a navigation database. The flight plan processor translates sequences of waypoints into airways and flight procedures that are added to the flight object with flight object services . The flight object services also takes into account the aircraft type aircraft state data and the current location of the aircraft. For example an identifier can identify multiple waypoints at different locations and the flight object services function determines which of those waypoints was intended based on the present location of the aircraft and the flight intent trajectory information.

The optimization and efficiency processor and advisory service optimizes flight plan and trajectory and fuel loading for cost time fuel passenger comfort airspace efficiency capacity and safety i.e. weather terrain . The optimization algorithms of the optimization and efficiency processor and advisory service prioritizes the optimization preferences of one or multiple categories i.e. cost time fuel passenger comfort airspace efficiency safety for an integrated solution. The optimized solutions can be dynamically determined based on real time assessment of the current historical probable and predicted flight information. Optimization advisories are provided for the departure arrival and approach lateral and vertical route business constraints i.e. crew cost crew rest flight schedule connecting passenger fuel loading and time profiles.

The translated waypoint fields in the flight object are encoded by an air ground messaging service of the flight object services . The encoder parses the translated list of waypoints in the flight object and encodes the parsed data to construct a payload for inclusion in a flight plan route message to be uplinked. The encoding places the parsed list of waypoints into the order required by a user specified flight plan route message format and encrypts the message. The message constructor identifies the transition types e.g. direct to or via or manner in which the aircraft will maneuver. The transition type identifies how to maneuver between the various combinations of waypoints airways and procedures such as waypoints to airways airways to procedures or waypoints to procedures. If requested by the user configuration or if the original downlinked message was decrypted the constructed payload can be encrypted by an encoding function performed by the air ground messaging service .

The efficiency and operational flight object system can include a number of specific efficiency enhancement functions as described below.

Aircraft operating above 18 000 ft. MSL and in instrument meteorological conditions IMC typically operate under an instrument flight plan. The instrument flight plan is based around specific instrument enroute routing departure transitions and arrival procedures. Each airport has many different approach and departure procedures and numerous variations of each which introduces a multiplicity of viable approach and departure procedures when constructing the instrument flight plan. There are thousands of instruments procedures in the United States in operation at airports with many options being available for the same runway. For example a runway may have NDB VOR ILS ILS DME ILS CAT I CAT II or CAT III options available. With so many options available choosing the most efficient procedure can be a challenge when factors such as aircraft equipage ground path track miles time speed current and predicted weather fuel burn airspace delays current and predicted aerodrome environments and aircraft schedule are taken into consideration.

During typical operations a pilot selects the departure airport and the pilot is presented with a list of the applicable runways and instrument arrival departure and approach procedures for that departure airport. The pilot then selects a runway and receives a new listing of departure procedures applicable to the chosen runway. This process continues for each selection made by the pilot. For each selection made the previous options are typically removed. The removal of the previous options can be particularly disadvantageous when an air traffic controller changes one or multiple procedures in the flight plan based on the conditions of the aerodrome.

In at least one embodiment the efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that allows an approved user e.g. pilot dispatcher air traffic controller to view and select one or more routes where the route are composed of procedures applicable to a flight e.g. route SID transitions runways and STAR . The selection of efficient routes is accomplished manually or through automation. The most efficient route e.g. approach arrival and departure route is automatically determined based on currently available flight information including the total current aerodrome environment. The automation algorithms used to determine the most efficient route considers course to the destination time fuel airline costs distance weather air traffic controller weather environment terrain and regulatory restrictions direct routing and back courses. The algorithms also consider a time aspect of the flight information to determine its relevance or value in determining the most efficiency route. The most efficiency route varies depending on the currency of real time historical probabilities and forecasted flight information. The determination of the efficient route also takes into account the timeframe of the flight to determine the most advantageous time based route 4D route .

Referring to a user can use a mobile device executing mobile application to view and select one or more procedures of a route applicable to a flight. The mobile application is configured to generate a user interface such as the user interface UI illustrated in . UI can be rendered in a window of a Web browser or other client application executing on the efficiency and operational flight object system device. The illustrated fields are provided to illustrate examples of possible user interface options that are provided to a user. As further described herein additional fields may be provided and some of the fields may be optional.

Mobile application is configured to automatically identify the most efficient route based on available flight information. By automatically providing efficient route advisories a pilot need not analyze multiple route options i.e. arrival departure routes etc. with little or no suggestion as to which options may be more advantageous. In one example depicted in illustrated is a mobile automated procedure selection system in accordance with the present disclosure. The automated procedure selection system can be implemented by optimization and efficiency process and advisory service in flight object services of . The mobile automated procedure selection system includes an automated procedure selection function and data service .

Mobile automated procedure selection system begins with determining known information that can include airline configuration and procedures from navigation database that have been already entered to expedite and reduce data entry error when selecting procedures. Mobile automated procedure selection system can determine the first and last enroute waypoints and determine unknown information . The determined known information are used to calculate parameters for the known information such as distances time cost fuel and emissions. The first and last enroute waypoints and the unknowns are used to filter the unknowns . The mobile automated procedure selection calculates parameters for flight information such as distances time cost fuel and emissions. Active and projected active procedures are determined in operation and the course and conditions of the reverse course are determined in operation . Airline configuration data and pilot preferences information are used when making the determinations of an automated procedure selection .

An efficient procedure is selected in operation and direct paths are determined in operation . The selected efficient procedure is displayed on the device in operation . Various flight information are accessed as needed and as the flight information becomes available and updated. For example data service includes aerodrome data aircraft state data airline preferences data airline configuration data flight plan data and current and forecasted weather data . The data service is used to determine time predictions and active procedures and runways are displayed on the user device in operation . Automated procedure selection function also has access to a navigation database .

A briefing package for a flight is typically generated by an airline operations center. An airline dispatcher may generate the flight briefing package which may comprise such items as Notices to Airmen NOTAMs weather flight path aircraft weights weather along the route and general weather information. The dispatcher may also file the flight plan with the appropriate air navigation service provider ANSP authorities as well as provide the flight plan to the pilot. Either the ANSP or the pilot can request modifications and the dispatcher may respond to the request.

The lateral portion of the flight plan is typically the primary focus that is negotiated between an ANSP and the dispatcher while the dispatcher and pilot often negotiate the lateral path and the aircraft weight including fuel. Once finalized the dispatcher may output the briefing package for the pilot to commence the flight. The pilot typically prints out the final briefing package and walks out to the aircraft. A growing trend is to also output the briefing package in an electronic form such as PDF. The PDF may then be viewed on the pilot s mobile device.

With the pilot at the aircraft and the departure time approaching the dynamics of the real world can have a significant impact requiring last minute changes to the flight plan or briefing package. For example the flight plan and briefing package may change based on changes in the total airspace environment which may have an impact on the quantity of fuel loaded on the aircraft. Such dynamic real world changes need to be continuously communicated between all parties reauthorized as appropriate and finally loaded into the automated flight systems e.g. FMC to be flown. Currently there are no systems that perform synchronization across multiple air traffic airline systems and the aircraft due to the multiple formats and lack of operational knowledge of each system that the flight plan can take. This inherently causes issues when the user is trying to make dynamic changes to reflect real time events. Generally the user can make changes in their own environment but the changes will not be replicated across the entire system including the aircraft. Furthermore when the user makes the changes in their local system the rationale for the change is not captured and distributed across the entire system.

The efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that allows an authorized user to dynamically make changes to a flight plan and communicate the changes across multiple or local systems and subscribers. The changes are synchronized across the multiple or local systems i.e. the latest or relevant changes are communicated to the appropriate systems and subscribers as they become available so that all parties have the latest changes . In order to accomplish this synchronization changes must be tracked for each system and messages are automatically generated for each of the systems and subscriber s communication protocols. The systems and subscribers include the on board flight management system mobile devices local agencies and ATC. The changes their status and associated information e.g. rationale for the changes can be viewed in real time. By providing a way to update flight plans from heterogeneous systems dynamic updates to flight plans from various sources can be accommodated in an efficient manner.

In one example depicted in illustrated are an aircraft system and a ground service system showing an example of dynamically tracking and making changes to a flight plan and synchronizing and communicating the changes across multiple or local systems for multiple subscribers. Systems on aircraft include a local network where devices such as flight planning processing devices and efficiency and operational flight object system device are communicatively coupled using standard protocols such as BLUETOOTH and 802.11. In at least one embodiment the local network is configured to access to other onboard systems via a firewall and or via a router or access point . With proper credentials and authentication the flight planning processing device is provided access to the FMC COMM radio manager and other on board systems. COMM radio manager is communicatively coupled to ground services using a plurality of communications links such as the Internet and ADS B ADS C and AOC communicating via transceiver with internet access and ground service firewall .

The flight planning processing devices are also configured to execute the mobile application from . The user can use the flight planning processing devices and configured in this manner to view a flight plan. The user determines changes to the flight plan based on the latest information regarding the airspace environment and its impact on the current flight plan e.g. the quantity of fuel loaded on the aircraft and enter changes to the flight plan. Once entered the changes to the flight plan are synchronized by sending flight information messages comprised of all or only specific changes for each subscriber via an available connection to firewall . The flight information i.e. changes communicated may not be all the flight plan changes but may only be the specific changes each subscriber requested since the last synchronization or based on their preferences. The changed flight information is send to the router access point to COMM manager radio for transmission to ground service via the internet . Ground service can include servers and computer and mobile device that are communicatively coupled via network . Ground service can implement one or more functions depicted for ground server in . Ground service is configured to generate the correct messages for various subscribers based on their respective communication protocols using message constructor of flight information services component . Message constructor of flight information services component construct flight plan route messages in the appropriate message formats specified for the target systems. The message constructor constructs an outgoing message for the target systems. The new or updated flight plans are thus transmitted to the various subscribers on board flight management system or mobile devices using air ground messaging service .

The efficiency and operational flight object system device is also configured to receive and store annotations and other information such as the rationale for flight information changes. The user notes can be dynamically generated based on the current situation or from predefined categories for common classifications of notes. The efficiency and operational flight object system device is configured to transmit the updated flight plan and related annotations to the on board flight management system or other devices on the on board network. The on board network is communicatively coupled to networks such as the Internet. The updated flight information can thus be communicated to ground service via the Internet. The efficiency and operational flight object system device is configured to communicate to the Internet via on board router access point .

Ground services include ground based servers that execute the some or all of the efficiency and operational flight object system. The ground services are communicatively coupled to additional ground networks that may also include the Internet. Various systems and subscribers are communicatively coupled to ground networks including mobile computing devices local agencies and ATC. The ground based servers executing the efficiency and operational flight object system are configured to automatically generate translate and format the updated flight information received from the efficiency and operational flight object system device for each of the systems and subscriber s communication protocols. In this way the various systems and subscribers are updated and synchronized with the updated flight information status and associated information e.g. rationale for the changes which can be viewed in real time as flight information becomes available.

In one operational example an authorized user such as a pilot can use the efficiency and operational flight object system device to view current flight plan information. Efficiency and operational flight object system device executes the efficiency and operational flight object system to view a previously downloaded flight plan. The user can choose to view flight plan information using available user interfaces on the efficiency and operational flight object system device such as a departure arrival route format screen lateral vertical or speed profile screens and or a map view. The user interacts with the user interface to make changes to flight information. The user can use inputs means such as a touch screen on the efficiency and operational flight object system device .

The efficiency and operational flight object system device receives and stores the changes. Efficiency and operational flight object system device communicates the changes via an onboard communications channel using an onboard wireless terminal or other communications means. The changes are then transmitted to ground services via the Internet. The updated flight plan information is received and processed by ground services and forwarded to various local systems and subscribers via messages that are generated for each of the individual systems and subscribers communication protocols.

The efficiency and operational flight object system device can also execute on a ground based server that updates flight information. For example a flight information services provider can update flight information based on the latest weather information and send the updated flight information via the Internet to local systems and subscribers via messages that are generated for the systems and subscribers communication protocols. The updates are also sent to the on board system via the Internet and ground to air communications channels. Once on board the updated flight information is sent to the efficiency and operational flight object system device and the flight management computer via on board networks.

As a flight commences actual flight data may be recorded in periodic increments as well as during specific flight events. Examples of actual flight information can include the flight plan issued by airline dispatch the flight plan in a flight management computer a flight plan in an ATC system accelerations decelerations aircraft position altitude speed fuel on board weight heading course flap position course voice communications etc. Recording of the flight plan and the actual flight information both separate pieces of flight history can be correlated to give a recount of the performance of actual flight information to a flight plan. This comparison is valuable to identify efficiency and optimization opportunities.

In at least one embodiment the efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that allows an approved user e.g. pilot dispatcher air traffic controller to view a graphical depiction of an active flight plan in conjunction with multiple flight plans and flight histories. In yet another example specific flight history data past flight plans or flight history most related to the active flight plan is highlighted or annunciated. Various options are configurable by the user. For example options can be configured by similar route speeds altitude aircraft type date range origin destination departure time arrival time tail number pilot s name or flight number of one or more airline operators. In one embodiment all data stored in the flight object data warehouse are searched and the flights or flight information most analogous to the active flight plan are identified.

The efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality for generating projections to a flight plan. For example referring to a user can select flight history data that is analogous e.g. same flight during a prior time or another flight with a similar route using a UI generated by mobile application executing on a user computing device. Using the UI the user selects a range of information based on a date range and other parameters. The user can then select an option to apply the information to the active secondary and or alternate flight plan. The information selected by the user is sent to the flight object services component of ground server . The trajectory predictor processor will also generate a projected outcome a projection of the selected data onto the active secondary or alternate flight plan . The trajectory predictor processor generates flight information predictions and projections. The projected outcome based on the flight plan route the flight information entered by the user and current historical and or forecast flight information conditions is sent to the user computing device and rendered on the UI by mobile application .

Additionally the user can select portions of the analogous flight history data or manually tailor the flight information history to generate hypothetical projections. The user then modifies the active secondary or alternate flight plan based on the tailored flight information or the hypothetical projections. Having completed the projection processes the efficiency and operational flight object system in is also configured to generate advisories in the optimization and efficiency processor and advisory service indicating discrepancy areas e.g. flight phases such as climb cruise descent and where specific parameters exceed configurable acceptance tolerance when analyzing historical actual and planned flight information of the current aircraft or reference flights.

An embodiment of the analogous flight information is projected to the active flight plan. The user can apply the analogous flight history data to the active flight plan thus allowing the user to observe a projected outcome. Furthermore the user is allowed to manipulate or tailor the flight information history to observe hypothetical projections. The use of analogous flight information to provide what if flight plan scenario manipulations is useful because analogous flight information history is typically not available in an organized way that can be used for rough drafting a flight plan.

For commercial airplane flights there are significant amounts of flight information in various formats from various sources available in preflight during flight and post flight. This data may include planned data real time data reported directly from the aircraft surveillance data weather data data collected from the aircraft post flight data collected from the pilots or data collected from other data sources. This data may be used in real time or collected and archived as flight history data.

In one embodiment of an efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that generates aircraft performance predictions based on real time flight information manually entered flight information other flights flight information historical flight information probabilities current predictions and pilots notes. Typically the flight information is related to that particular flight and does not include other flight or aircraft information. For example Flight UU123 a Boeing 737 aircraft would consider flight route information from UU227 a Boeing 777 aircraft. Flight UU123 and UU227 are operating at the same altitude arrive at the same destination minutes apart but have different origins. Based on this flight information new optimization opportunities are identified and updated flight predictions are generated. Examples of flight predictions include new or updated departure times fuel consumption predicted weather airspace delays predicted speeds cost index predicted altitudes and other performance related predictions. The predictions are accompanied by a probability distribution that indicates the expected likelihood of the prediction. Additionally flight information history including pilot notes is used to generate new or updated flight plan and aircraft performance predictions and their probabilities.

The user can select a date range an airline flight number tail number or other filtering criteria. Manual entries can be entered directly on a mobile device. The various inputs can be manipulated by the user to create hypotheticals so that the user can view the impact on the predictions.

Flight information history is used to provide aircraft performance predictions such as fuel loads fuel burn rates cost index flight times flight path updates step climbs and other performance related predictions. Aircraft performance predictions based on flight information history are processed for a selected date range and can be based on an airline flight number tail number or other filtering criteria. For example with reference to given the inputs provided in windows and the efficiency and operational flight object system generates a prediction ILS18R in this example . Additionally the prediction includes a probability associated with the prediction 90 in this example . The probability takes into consideration various possible events that for example may change the arrival runway from the current prediction of 18R such as emergency events controller preferences noise abatement procedures weather events or airport traffic.

By predicting performance e.g. hold time arrival time fuel burn passengers making connections etc. and their probabilities of occurrence based on real time conditions and flight history for a given route or time pilots need not access and analyze vast amounts of flight information for the benefit of improving operational performance.

With reference to flight object services executing on ground server is configured to generate aircraft performance predictions based on flight information received via API from a user device executing mobile application or web application . The flight information can include for example real time flight information manually entered flight information other flights flight information historical flight information probabilities current predictions and pilots notes. The user can also select a date range an airline flight number tail number or other filtering criteria. Manual entries can be entered directly on the mobile device using the rendered UI. Based on this information flight object services executes functions such as flight plan processor navigation database processor aircraft performance processor and trajectory predictor processor to generate flight predictions. Examples of flight predictions include new or updated departure times fuel consumption predicted weather airspace delays predicted speeds cost index predicted altitudes and other performance related predictions. The flight predictions are sent to mobile application executing on a user device where the flight predictions are rendered on a user display by mobile application . The predictions are accompanied by a probability distribution that indicates the expected likelihood of the prediction. The probability distribution can be indicated by a percentage probability e.g. 1 to 99 or a term of high medium or low and can be accompanied by other statistical indicators e.g. colors . Additionally flight information history including pilot notes is used to generate new or updated flight plan and aircraft performance predictions such as fuel loads fuel burn rates cost index flight times flight path updates step climbs and other performance related predictions and their probabilities. The various inputs can be manipulated by the user to create hypotheticals so that the user can view their impact on the predictions.

During a flight pilots typically capture various predicted and current flight information and personal observations for situational awareness enroute planning and for logging differences between actual flight information and planned flight plan. Pilots also need to exchange notes or other flight plan information in an efficient manner from the flight planning processing device to another device onboard an aircraft. The pilot notes or user notes can entail observations associated with cargo fuel runway conditions braking actions weather observations wildlife and other information that a pilot may record. The flight information includes user notes flight plan changes actual time sequencing of a waypoint weather turbulence fuel on board fuel at destination estimated time of arrival at the destination and many other important data points. The pilot typically manually logs each of these data points and personal observations during the flight and updates the original filed flight plan.

In at least one embodiment the efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that captures and compiles current and predicted flight information in real time and automatically makes that data available to the user s device to update the original filed flight plan. The user s device can be a mobile computing device executing the efficiency and operational flight object system. The updated flight plan data is sent to the FMC via a ground or airborne service using one of a plurality of communications channels that is manually selected by the user or automatically selected by the user s device based on selection criteria. For example the user s device can send the flight information through the onboard network system ONS to the internet an intranet or other physical or wireless connection USB BLUETOOTH etc. .

Flight information can be entered into the user s device by the user manually typing writing voice or by using a camera connected to the user s device to take images of data displayed on the aircraft displays. The images are stored on the user s device and optical recognition methods are used to extract flight information that is used to update the current and predicted flight information.

Additionally flight information including user notes are recorded with a selected level of significance such as personal current flight only unofficial official etc. This flight information indicates the applicability of the annotated information so as to assist in determining the relevance of information to other users. The user s device can provide the user with the ability to enter different types of flight information and synchronize the flight information on the user device as well as across the system.

Referring to the flight object services component of the ground server is configured to automatically capture and compile current and predicted flight information and user notes in real time and automatically make that flight information available to a computing device running mobile application to update the original filed flight plan. The mobile application also provides the ability to update flight plan values in multiple ways such as using an ONS .

In one illustrative example a flight plan includes an estimated time to reach a waypoint. When the aircraft actually crosses the waypoint the event is captured by flight object services component of ground server . The flight object services component determines the actual crossing time and invokes air ground message service to generate and send a message including the actual crossing time to the user s computing device executing mobile application as well as flight object services of ground server . The actual crossing time can be displayed and recorded automatically on the user s computing device by mobile application and an update to the original flight plan is generated and made available for viewing on the user s computing device .

Flight information is sent to the pilot s computing device through one or more of the available communication channels such as the Internet an intranet or other physical or wireless connection USB BLUETOOTH etc. . For example with reference to ground server is included in ground service and the generated message including the actual crossing time is transmitted via the internet and to COMM manager radio on the aircraft . The COMM manager radio then transmits the message via router access point to the pilots computing device such as device . Ground service can include servers and and mobile device that are communicatively coupled via network . Ground service can implement one or more functions depicted for ground server in .

Additionally flight information can be entered into the user s computing device manually by voice or by using a camera connected to the device to take images of data displayed on the aircraft displays. For example the pilot s computing device may have a camera function or an interface where a camera device can attach and transfer image information to the computing device using USB BLUETOOTH etc. The images are stored on the user s computing device directly and analyzed to determine information relevant to the flight information. For example the pilot captures an image of a display that includes flight information using a camera function on the user s computing device . The user s computing device can invoke a function on the mobile application running on the user s computing device that implements an optical recognition algorithm that analyzes the captured image and extract flight related information. This flight information can be sent to ground service of via router access point COMM manager radio and the internet . Ground service that includes flight object services running on ground server then automatically updates the original filed flight plan with current and predicted flight information.

In at least one embodiment flight information and user notes are recorded with various levels of significance such as personal current flight only unofficial official that are selected on the user s computing device running mobile application . This may be particularly advantageous when the flight crew needs to make unofficial notes comments or observations that may only be pertinent to other crew members of that flight and during that flight. One illustrative example is when one crew is waking from crew rest and handing off the current status of the flight to the next crew. During this process the new crew may be presented with current flight only or unofficial flight information and personal observations that are only pertinent to the current flight and the current status update.

Flight information including user notes that are labeled as current flight only unofficial or personal are stored locally on the user s computing device and deleted with the proper authorization. Flight information including user notes are elevated to a significance level of official for storage and viewing by the entire company or authorized individuals. Official comments are recorded as an official communiqu of the flight. Identifying the unofficial and official communiqu s of a flight can be done in an automated fashion based on the type of flight information or personal observations and how they were recorded. For example all footage captured on a particular video camera onboard the aircraft may be recorded given an official significance and saved for flight history purposes. Likewise voice recordings triggered by the crew may automatically be given an unofficial significance but may be elevated to an official significance automatically if a particular phrase is recorded an emergency detected or some other important event occurs.

Operation is the step of based on the real time flight information updating the flight plan information contained in the flight object. Operation is the step of sending the updated flight plan information to a target system using a selected one of a plurality of communications channels based on selection criteria.

A flight plan may be incomplete or incompatible with an FMC a particular aircraft or other subscriber. Each system that works with flight plans has its own state space and a flight plan may be consistent and continuous internally to its own system but when an attempt is made to translate the flight plan in another system discontinuities may result. A discontinuity may be any flight information gap such that one part of a flight object does not logically and continuously relate back to a previous or next part of a flight object. Without additional flight plan processing instructions manual intervention may be required to link the incomplete or incompatible parts of a flight plan. Without these links the discontinuities can cause issues such as flight inefficiencies increased workload and even flying along the wrong course. Discontinuities in the flight plan can occur in all phases of flight e.g. climb cruise descent and may vary depending on FMC aircraft type or other subscriber restrictions.

In at least one embodiment the efficiency and operational flight object system includes functionality that automatically generates flight plans secondary or alternate flight plans for a subscriber where the generated flight plans are free of discontinuities. The efficiency and operational flight object system determines if and where discontinuities exist in a flight plan. If discontinuities exist the discontinuities are automatically removed and a discontinuity free flight plan is generated based on the communication protocol for the subscriber.

In an example if a discontinuity is identified the efficiency and operational flight object system is configured to perform the following steps 

With reference to the flight object services component of ground server is configured to automatically generate flight plans secondary or alternate flight plans for a subscriber where the generated flight plans are free of discontinuities. Referring to the dotted line showing the route from MODDY to JANEK represents a discontinuity when no guidance is available as to how to fly between those points. A flight plan can be loaded and sent to the flight object services component which invokes flight plan processor to parse the flight plan from the flight information. The flight plan processor invokes the trajectory predictor processor . Trajectory predictor processor is configured to determine if discontinuities exist in a flight plan. If discontinuities exist trajectory predictor processor is configured to automatically remove the discontinuity. The trajectory predictor processor can for example invoke navigation database processor which accesses a navigational database to retrieve specific waypoints procedures and airways that can be used to remove the discovered discontinuity. The trajectory predictor processor shares the waypoints procedures and airways that would remove the discontinuity with the flight plan processor . The flight plan processor will verify that the flight plan is free from discontinuities and add unique waypoints delete waypoints or provide guidance commands to remove any remaining discontinuities that could not be removed from the addition of known waypoints.

In another embodiment discontinuities are created and added to a flight plan. Adding discontinuities to a flight plan can be useful for some scenarios involving ATC restrictions minimize pilot training or to place emphasis an area requiring additional pilot focus e.g. transition to approach . By creating and adding discontinuities in a flight plan an action is created for the pilot to approve. In some embodiments discontinuities may be added and remove in the same flight plan. For example a configuration may require adding discontinuities for the departure procedures but removing all discontinuities from the arrival procedures.

In at least some embodiments a computing device that implements a portion or all of one or more of the technologies described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. illustrates such a general purpose computing device that can be used to execute one or more components that are depicted in . For example web application or mobile application is loaded and run on such a general purpose computing device. In one example a computing device includes a processor a memory device coupled to processor one or more wireless transmitters one or more wireless receivers an output component and an input component .

Processor includes any suitable programmable circuit including one or more systems and microcontrollers microprocessors reduced instruction set circuits RISC application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic circuits PLC field programmable gate arrays FPGA and any other circuit capable of executing the functions described herein. The above examples are not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term processor. 

Memory device includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as without limitation random access memory RAM flash memory a hard disk drive a solid state drive a diskette a Flash drive a compact disc a digital video disc and or any suitable memory. In the embodiment memory device includes data and or instructions embodying aspects of the disclosure that are executable by processor e.g. processor may be programmed by the instructions to enable processor to perform the functions described herein. Additionally the memory device comprises an operation system and applications.

Wireless transmitters are configured to transmit control signals and data signals over the network communicating efficiency and operational flight object system . In one example wireless transmitters transmits in a radio frequency spectrum and operate using an appropriate communication protocol. Each wireless transmitter operates on a particular radio frequency channel or a plurality of channels.

Wireless receivers are configured to receive control signals and data signals over the network communicating efficiency and operational flight object system . In one example wireless receivers receive signals on a radio frequency spectrum. Each wireless receiver receives signals on a particular radio frequency channel or a plurality of channels.

The efficiency and operational flight object system also includes at least one output component for presenting information to a user . Output component may be any component capable of conveying information to user . In at least one embodiment output component includes an output adapter such as a video adapter and or an audio adapter or the like. An output adapter is operatively coupled to processor and is configured to be operatively coupled to an output device such as a display device e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display cathode ray tube CRT electronic ink display or the like or an audio output device e.g. a speaker headphones or the like . In at least one embodiment one such display device and or audio device is included with output component .

The efficiency and operational flight object system also includes at least one input component for receiving input from user . Input component may include for example a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a stylus a touch sensitive panel e.g. a touch pad or a touch screen a gyroscope an accelerometer a position detector an audio input device or the like. A single component such as a touch screen may function as both an output device of output component and input component . In at least one embodiment output component and or input component include an adapter for communicating data and or instructions between the efficiency and operational flight object system and a computer connected thereto.

Operations center includes servers and which may be referred herein singularly as a server or in the plural as the servers that provide computing resources. Other resources that may be provided include data storage resources not shown .

Network may for example be a publicly accessible network of linked networks and possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet ACARS or ATN. In other embodiments network is a private network such as for example a corporate network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments network includes one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet.

Network may provide access to computers . Computers may be computers utilized by users . For instance user computer or may be a server a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA or any other computing device capable of accessing operations center . User computer or may connect directly to the Internet e.g. via a cable modem or a Digital Subscriber Line DSL . Although only two user computers and are depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

Computers may also be utilized to access the computing resources provided by operations center . In this regard operations center might provide a Web interface through which aspects of its operation may be accessed through the use of a Web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternatively a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by operations center for accessing the resources. Other mechanisms for accessing the resources of the operations center including deploying updates to an application might also be utilized.

Server and computing device shown in configured appropriately for providing the functionality described above.

In the example operations center shown in a router may be utilized to interconnect the servers and . Router is also be connected to gateway which is connected to network . Router manages communications within networks in operations center for example by forwarding packets or other data communications as appropriate based on characteristics of such communications e.g. header information including source and or destination addresses protocol identifiers etc. and or the characteristics of the private network e.g. routes based on network topology etc. . It will be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity various aspects of the computing systems and other devices of this example are illustrated without showing certain conventional details. Additional computing systems and other devices may be interconnected in other embodiments and may be interconnected in different ways.

It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should also be appreciated that operations center described in is merely illustrative and that other embodiments might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the embodiments disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other embodiments should be apparent to those skilled in the art. It should also be appreciated that a server gateway or other computing device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs tablets cellphones wireless phones Internet appliances and various other products that include appropriate communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated modules may in some embodiments be combined in fewer modules or distributed in additional modules. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated modules may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

It will be appreciated that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices. Alternatively in other examples some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. In some examples some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other examples. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

It will be appreciated that in some examples the functionality provided by the routines discussed above may be provided in alternative ways such as being split among more routines or consolidated into fewer routines. Similarly in some examples illustrated routines may provide more or less functionality than is described such as when other illustrated routines instead lack or include such functionality respectively or when the amount of functionality that is provided is altered. In addition while various operations may be illustrated as being performed in a particular manner e.g. in serial or in parallel and or in a particular order in other examples the operations may be performed in other orders and in other manners. Similarly the data structures discussed above may be structured in different ways in other examples such as by having a single data structure split into multiple data structures or by having multiple data structures consolidated into a single data structure and may store more or less information than is described e.g. when other illustrated data structures instead lack or include such information respectively or when the amount or types of information that is stored is altered .

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain examples include while other examples do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more examples or that one or more examples necessarily include logic for deciding with or without input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular example. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

In general the various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in different ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some embodiments. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed examples. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed examples.

receiving flight information indicative of one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object function 

extracting the flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the flight information for viewing 

determining optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information based on the flight plan entry 

generating an optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory and

rendering the optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory for viewing.

2. The method of claim further comprising providing a user interface option to initiate selection of the optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory.

3. The method of claim wherein the procedures include runway standard instrument departure standard instrument departure transitions standard terminal arrival procedure standard terminal arrival procedure transition approach and approach transition procedure. 4. The method of claim further comprising providing at least one suggested procedure when none of the one or more procedures are in the current flight plan. 5. The method of claim further comprising providing an option to accept the at least one suggested procedure or request another suggestion. 6. The method of claim wherein the at least one suggested procedure is configurable. 7. A computing device for managing flight information in real time the computing device comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least 

receiving flight information indicative of one or more flight objects via at least one network communicatively coupled to the computing device 

extracting the flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the flight information for viewing 

determining optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information based on the flight plan entry 

generating an optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory and

rendering the optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory for viewing.

8. The computing device of claim wherein the one or more flight objects comprise flight information for a planned flight.

9. The computing device of claim wherein the target system comprises one of a flight management computer or a system of a service provider.

10. The computing device of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least store and modify the one or more flight objects.

11. The computing device of claim wherein the one or more flight objects comprise flight information of one or more procedures and wherein the flight object processing function provides an option to search the one or more procedures to determine if any are pertinent to a current flight plan associated with the one or more flight information objects. 12. A system comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to 

receiving data indicative of one or more flight objects via at least one network communicatively coupled to the system 

extracting flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the flight information for viewing 

determining optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information based on the flight plan entry 

generating an optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory and

rendering the optimized and efficiency flight plan routing fuel loading departure arrival and approach procedure flight information advisory for viewing.

13. The system of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to at least provide at least one suggested procedure when none of the one or more procedures are in the current flight plan. 14. The system of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to at least provide an option to accept the at least one suggested procedure or request another suggestion.

1. A method of dynamically changing communicating and synchronizing flight information between a plurality of systems the method comprising 

receiving on a computing device flight information indicative of one or more flight objects the computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system 

extracting flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the flight information for viewing and editing along with real time flight information 

receiving modifications to the flight information and generating updates to the one or more flight objects 

tracking flight information changes applicable to one or more subscriber systems storing user notes associated with the flight information changes 

generating flight information messages representative of the updated flight information and user notes that are compatible with one or more subscriber systems and

communicating the generated flight information messages to the one or more subscriber systems across the one or more networks.

2. The method of claim wherein the one or more flight information messages are uploaded from the mobile computing device to a flight management computer via at least one server associated with a flight object service provider.

3. The method of claim wherein the efficiency and operational flight object system includes the functionality of at least one server associated with the flight object service provider.

4. The method of claim further comprising rendering the one or more flight objects on a user interface of the computing device and receiving via at least one input mechanism of the computing device flight information indicative of a modification to the one or more flight objects. 5. The method of claim further comprising receiving via at least one input mechanism of the computing device flight information indicative one or more user notes to the one or more flight objects. 6. The method of claim wherein the at least one input mechanism comprises one or more of a soft key mechanism a hard key mechanism an audio input mechanism and an image capture mechanism. 7. A computing device for managing flight information in real time the device comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least 

store on a computing device flight information indicative of one or more flight objects the computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system 

extract flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the flight information for viewing and editing on a display coupled to the computing device along with real time flight information 

store on a computing device flight information indicative of one or more flight objects the computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system 

extract flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the flight information for viewing and editing on a display coupled to the computing device along with real time flight information 

tracking flight information changes applicable to one or more subscriber systems storing user notes associated with the flight information changes and communicate the modifications via the one or more networks to a system configured to 

inputting one or more flight objects to a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system 

extracting active flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the active flight information for viewing 

receiving via at least one input mechanism of the mobile computing device a selection of at least a portion of the analogous flight information data and

based on the selected analogous flight information data generating a projection of the analogous flight information on the active flight information.

2. The method of claim further comprising receiving via the at least one input mechanism of the computing device flight information indicative of one or more hypothetical conditions and generating the projection based in part on the one or more hypothetical conditions. 3. The method of claim wherein the flight information comprises real time and historical flight information for similar flights and historical data for a concurrent flight. 4. The method of claim wherein the analogous flight information are configurable by similar route speeds altitude aircraft type date range origin destination departure time arrival time tail number pilot s name or flight number of one or more airline operators. 5. The method of claim further comprising receiving via the at least one input mechanism of the mobile computing device flight information indicative of a modification to the one or more flight objects. 6. The method of claim further comprising communicating via at least one network the modified one or more flight objects for transmission to a target system. 7. The method of claim wherein the one or more flight objects comprise a plurality of flight information comprised of flight plans. 8. The method of claim further comprising rendering the one or more flight objects on a user interface of the computing device. 9. The method of claim further comprising generating advisories indicating discrepancy areas. 10. A computing device for generating projected flight information the device comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause 

inputting one or more flight objects to a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system 

extracting active flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the active flight information for viewing 

receiving via at least one input mechanism of the mobile computing device a selection of at least a portion of the analogous flight information and

based on the selected analogous flight information generating a projection of the analogous flight information on the active flight information.

11. The computing device of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least receive via the at least one input mechanism of the computing device flight information indicative of one or more hypothetical conditions and determining the projection based in part on the one or more hypothetical conditions. 12. The computing device of claim wherein flight information comprises real time and historical data for similar flights and historical data for a concurrent flight. 13. The computing device of claim wherein the analogous flight information are configurable by similar route speeds altitude aircraft type date range origin destination departure time arrival time tail number pilot s name or flight number of one or more airline operators. 14. The computing device of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least receive via the at least one input mechanism of the mobile computing device flight information indicative of a modification to the one or more flight objects. 15. The computing device of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the computing device to at least communicate via at least one network the modified one or more flight objects for transmission to a target system. 16. A system comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause 

inputting one or more flight objects to a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system 

extracting active flight information from the one or more flight objects and rendering the active flight information for viewing 

receiving via at least one input mechanism of the mobile computing device a selection of at least a portion of the analogous flight information and

based on the selected analogous flight information generating a projection of the analogous flight history data on the active flight information.

18. The system of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause the system to render the one or more flight objects on a user interface of the computing device.

19. The system of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to render a graphical depiction of an active flight plan associated with the one or more flight objects.

20. The system of claim wherein the flight information comprises real time and historical data for similar flights and historical data for a concurrent flight.

accessing one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system the one or more flight objects accessed via at least one network communicatively coupled to the computing device the one or more flight objects associated with a planned flight 

extracting flight information from the one or more flight objects processing and rendering the active flight information for viewing 

receiving via at least one input mechanism of the computing device one or more filtering criteria pertaining to the planned flight 

determining flight information pertaining to the planned flight and associated airspace environment information based on the filtering criteria 

generating event probability and forecast predictions for the planned flight based on the determined flight information and

generating predictive flight information with user notes and aircraft performance information using the generated event probability and forecast predictions.

2. The method of claim wherein the flight information comprises one or more of flight history information flight actuals planned flight information user notes and advisory information current planned flight flight history flight events predicted performance weather environmental conditions or flight trajectory information. 3. The method of claim wherein the predictive flight information includes aircraft performance information and a probability distribution function. 4. The method of claim further comprising receiving via at least one input mechanism of the computing device changes to the one or more filtering criteria pertaining to the planned flight and updating the generated predictive flight information with user notes and aircraft performance information in response to flight information changes. 5. The method of claim wherein a time period for the flight information is selectable via at least one input mechanism of the computing device. 6. The method of claim wherein the flight information includes pilots notes. 7. The method of claim wherein the flight information includes real time forecast and flight predicted environmental conditions. 8. The method of claim wherein the event probability and predictions are determined based on historical real time and planned flight information and business considerations. 9. The method of claim wherein the event probability and forecast predictions includes one or more of predicted fuel at selected waypoints and a probability of a hold. 10. The method of claim wherein the user notes are categorized with levels of significance of the respective annotation. 11. A computing device for managing flight information in real time the device comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least 

access one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system the one or more flight objects accessed via at least one network communicatively coupled to the computing device the one or more flight objects associated with a planned flight 

extract flight information from the one or more flight objects process and rendering the active flight information for viewing 

receive via at least one input mechanism of the computing device one or more filtering criteria pertaining to the planned flight 

determine the planned flight and associated airspace environment information based on the filtering criteria 

generate event probability and forecast predictions for the planned flight based on the determined flight information and

generate predictive flight information using user notes aircraft performance information and using the generated event probability and forecast predictions.

12. The computing device of claim wherein the flight information comprises real time and flight history information.

13. The computing device of claim wherein the flight information comprises flight plan and advisory information.

14. The computing device of claim wherein the flight information comprises one or more of planned flight flight history flight events predicted performance weather environmental conditions or flight trajectory information.

15. The computing device of claim wherein a time period for the flight information is selectable via at least one input mechanism of the computing device.

16. A system comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to 

access one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system the one or more flight objects accessed via at least one network communicatively coupled to the computing device the one or more flight objects associated with a planned flight 

receive via at least one input mechanism of the computing device one or more filtering criteria pertaining to the planned flight 

determine flight information pertaining to the planned flight and associated airspace environment information based on the filtering criteria 

generate event probability and forecast predictions for the planned flight based on the determined flight information and

generate predictive aircraft performance information using the generated event probability and forecast predictions.

receiving by a first computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system a flight object via a communication network communicatively coupled to the first computing device 

processing the flight object to identify flight plan information pertaining to a planned flight associated with an aircraft 

receiving by the first computing device real time flight information pertaining to the aircraft as the aircraft conducts the planned flight 

based on the real time flight information updating the flight plan information contained in the flight object and

sending the updated flight plan information to a target system using a selected one of a plurality of communications channels based on selection criteria.

2. The method of claim wherein the real time flight information is associated with one or more indications of significance.

4. The method of claim wherein the user notes comprises one or more of flight events personal comments or operational requirements.

5. The method of claim further comprising making the real time flight information and updated flight plan information available for viewing on the computing device.

said real time flight information is sent from a system on board the aircraft to an off board system 

said providing the updated flight plan information to the first computing device is performed by the off board system.

the first computing device and a second computing device are on board computing devices that are communicatively coupled 

said real time flight information is sent from a system on board the aircraft to the first and second computing devices 

said providing the updated flight information to the first computing device is performed by the second computing device.

8. The method of claim wherein the first computing device is a mobile computing device and the real time flight information is received manually from the user.

9. The method of claim wherein the first computing device is a mobile computing device and the current and predicted flight information and user notes is received via an input mechanism on the mobile computing device.

11. The method of claim wherein the real time flight information is received using automatic dependent surveillance broadcast ADS B .

12. The method of claim wherein the real time flight information includes one or more of time sequencing of a waypoint weather turbulence fuel on board fuel at destination and estimated time of arrival at the destination.

13. The method of claim wherein the indications of significance comprises one or more of personal current flight only unofficial and official. 

14. A computing device configured to provide flight information to a user the device comprising at least a display a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least 

automatically compile real time flight information in real time the information pertaining to an aircraft as the aircraft conducts a planned flight 

based on the real time flight information updating flight plan information contained in the flight object and

sending the updated flight information to a target system using a selected one of a plurality of communications channels based on selection criteria.

15. The computing device of claim wherein the updated flight information is received from another computing device communicatively coupled to the communication network.

16. The computing device of claim wherein the updated flight information is received from an efficiency and operational flight object system executing on the computing device.

18. The computing device of claim wherein the real time flight information is associated with one or more indications of significance.

19. A system comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to 

identify from the flight object flight information pertaining to a planned flight associated with an aircraft 

based on the real time flight information updating the flight information contained in the flight object and

sending the updated flight information to a target system using a selected one of a plurality of communications channels based on selection criteria.

20. The system of claim wherein the updated flight information is received from one of the computing devices communicatively coupled to the communication network.

21. The system of claim wherein the real time flight information is associated with one or more indications of significance.

accessing one or more flight objects on a computing device configured with an efficiency and operational flight object system the one or more flight objects communicated via at least one network coupled to the computing device 

extracting flight information from the one or more flight objects and identifying a flight plan in the flight information the flight plan associated with a first subscriber 

identifying one or more discontinuities that can be added to the flight plan or removed from the flight plan 

processing the flight plan and generating flight information that adds or removes the one or more discontinuities based at least in part on a communication protocol associated with the second subscriber.

2. The method of claim further comprising removing the one or more discontinuities from the flight plan.

5. The method of claim further comprising rendering the generated flight information on a user interface of the computing device.

6. The method of claim further comprising uploading via at least one network the flight information message for transmission to the second subscriber.

7. The method of claim wherein the discontinuities comprise one or more of terminal or enroute procedures of a standard instrument departure departure transition enroute standard terminal arrival route arrival transitions approaches and approach transitions. 8. A computing device configured to add or remove flight information discontinuities the device comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least 

generate flight information that adds or removes one or more discontinuities based on the flight plan and a communication protocol associated with the subscriber.

9. The computing device of claim wherein the flight plan includes a flight path comprising at least an origin and destination.

10. The computing device of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least render the generated flight information on a user interface of the computing device.

11. The computing device of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the device to at least upload via the at least one network the flight plan for transmission to a target system associated with the subscriber. 12. The computing device of claim wherein the discontinuities comprise one or more of terminal or enroute procedures of a standard instrument departure departure transition enroute standard terminal arrival route arrival transitions approaches and approach transitions. 13. A system comprising at least a processor and memory the memory having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to 

extracting flight information from the one or more flight objects and identifying a flight plan in the flight information the flight plan associated with a first subscriber 

processing the flight plan generating flight information that includes or removes the one or more discontinuities based at least in part on a communication protocol associated with the second subscriber.

15. The system of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to at least render the generated flight information on a user interface of the system.

16. The system of claim further comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to at least upload via the at least one network the flight information for transmission to a target system associated with the subscriber. 17. The system of claim wherein the discontinuities comprise one or more of terminal or enroute procedures of a standard instrument departure departure transition enroute standard terminal arrival route arrival transitions approaches and approach transitions.

While certain example or illustrative examples have been described these examples have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

