---

title: Sensor and transmission control circuit in adaptive interface package
abstract: A programmable interface module includes a linear power regulator to control and provide power to interfaced components on an as needed basis. The interface module is implemented in, for example, a sensor pack and multiplexed to a plurality of sensor modules. In a first mode, the linear voltage regulator provides a relatively small amount of power which allows a sensor module to output a signal responsive to detecting an environmental condition (e.g., gamma or x-ray radiation, extreme temperatures, etc.). The interface module can switch the linear voltage regulator to a second mode in which the linear voltage regulator ramps up the amount of power provided to a detecting sensor module. The sensor module can then provide a level indicative of a concentration or intensity of the environmental condition. If the level surpasses a predetermined threshold, the senor pack can output an alert signal to security server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355540&OS=09355540&RS=09355540
owner: FTC Sensors, LLC
number: 09355540
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141126
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 849 016 entitled Sensor And Transmission Control Circuit In Adaptive Interface Package filed on Mar. 22 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 907 787 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 294 838 entitled Sensor And Transmission Control Circuit In Adaptive Interface Package filed on Nov. 11 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 421 621 issued on Apr. 16 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 710 361 entitled Sensor And Transmission Control Circuit In Adaptive Interface Package filed on Feb. 23 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 058 991 issued on Nov. 15 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 145 747 entitled Sensor And Transmission Control Circuit In Adaptive Interface Package filed on Jun. 25 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 696 870 issued on Apr. 13 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 351 112 entitled Sensor And Transmission Control Circuit In Adaptive Interface Package filed on Feb. 8 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 397 369 issued on Jul. 8 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 651 398 entitled Sensor And Transmission Control Circuit In Adaptive Interface Package filed on Feb. 8 2005 the entire contents of these are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to an interface for electrical components and more specifically an interface for use in a sensor that provides power as needed to associated sensors.

Public safety is constantly threatened by environmental dangers. For example a plume of smoke from a dirty bomb can quickly consume a metropolitan area to cause mass harm. In another example ports receive millions of cargo containers every year while only a few are inspected for terrorist sabotaging. In response the Department of Homeland Security has promulgated initiatives for threat monitoring and readiness that are designed to prevent threats and to improve emergency response. Conventionally a threat is manually observed and a call is made to 911 which has to be routed to the correct authorities.

One shortcoming of conventional automated detection systems is that they are typically hardwired for a specific type of environmental condition. Thus once the system is manufactured it cannot be adapted for different environments. Furthermore current detection systems typically have complex deployment requirements or short deployment periods. For example some detection systems are wired to a power source. Other detection systems must be constantly serviced to replace batteries.

Accordingly a need exists for a system and method for a robust detection system that is easily deployable and is low powered to provide a long deployment life. Additionally a need exists for a sensor interface system and method for allowing specialized user sensors and transmit systems to function together.

The present invention addresses the above needs by providing systems and methods for interfacing electronic components. In one embodiment a programmable interface module includes a linear power regulator to control and provide power to interfaced components on an as needed basis.

The interface module can be implemented in for example a sensor pack and multiplexed to a plurality of sensor modules. The sensor modules may be used in a variety of applications like threat detection air quality monitoring personnel tracking fire detection and prevention water quality monitoring tank level gauging perimeter border monitoring asset vehicle tracking remote meters buoys ship movement fishing vessel monitoring power line monitoring general monitoring etc.

In a first mode the linear voltage regulator provides a relatively small amount of power which allows a sensor module to output a signal responsive to detecting an environmental condition e.g. gamma or x ray radiation extreme temperatures etc. . The interface module can switch the linear voltage regulator to a second mode in which the linear voltage regulator ramps up the amount of power provided to a detecting sensor module. The sensor module can then provide a level indicative of a concentration or intensity of the environmental condition. If the level surpasses a predetermined threshold the senor pack can output an alert signal to security server.

In one embodiment a configuration module within the interface modules allows adaptation to later added sensor modules even if not contemplated during manufacturing. Thus the sensor pack can be configured for a particular use e.g. a particular sensitivity and then configured with instructions and data related to that use.

In one embodiment the interface module may provide application programming interface API to third party sensor developers for integrating their sensors with the detection system. In another embodiment no such APIs are needed. The interface module instead provides a hardware interface with plug and play capabilities. When the third party vendor plugs their sensor into the hardware containing interface module the interface module detects the new sensor establishes communication with the new sensors and integrates the sensor into the detection system.

Advantageously the interface module can adapt to various types of interfaced components. Furthermore the interface module has low power usage for long term deployments.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specifications and claims.

Systems and methods related to an interface module for sensors e.g. in low power applications are described. In one embodiment the interface module is included in a system for detecting threats. Accordingly the interface module uses a linear voltage regulator to provide power to sensors as needed for detecting ambient inputs. Power regulation to sensors allows long term deployments over several years. The ambient inputs can include for example a smoke plume from a dirty bomb radiation from hazardous substances a sudden temperature rise from a fire and the like. Thus although the example of a threat detection system is described herein the invention can be modified for applications in other systems such as a fire detection system a theft prevention system an asset tracking system and the like.

Sensor is outputting an alert signal to satellite server . As described in more detail below sensors can output alert signals responsive to detecting an environmental condition that surpasses a threshold. Satellite server provides communications over a wide deployment range.

Sensor packs receive ambient inputs from its surroundings and output alert signals to security server . In one embodiment sensor packs can include components as illustrated in . Sensor packs detect environmental anomalies from the ambient inputs. In one embodiment responsive to an ambient input surpassing a threshold level a corresponding sensor pack generates the alert signal for transmission to security server as described in more detail below. For example a smoke plume from a dirty bomb can emit particles that are detected by cadmium zinc telluride CZT .

Security server receives the alert signal. Security server can include for example a software application executing on a personal computer or server blade. In one embodiment security server identifies the location and type of anomaly from the alert signal. Security server can provide a user interface i.e. directly or remotely through a client which visually identifies the alerting sensor pack over a graphical map. For example a local fire station that is near the alerting sensor pack can be alarmed for a response. The fire station can equip fire trucks and operators with equipment used to deal with particular anomalies identified by alerting sensor packs e.g. a bomb defusing kit .

Sensor modules receive the environmental or ambient conditions and generate level signals. Sensor modules include a radiation sensor module a temperature sensor module and future sensor modules . Future sensor modules are later developed sensor modules that can be added to sensor pack after manufacture. Sensor modules can include elements to sense environmental conditions with little or no power. For example radiation sensor module can include CZT and temperature sensor module can include mercury. In a first mode sensor modules are capable of outputting a relatively small electrical signal in response to detecting an associated environmental condition. Each of sensor modules are sensitive to at least one environmental condition. For example radiation sensor module can detect output from a dirty bomb or detect small amounts of gamma and temperature sensor module can detect large changes in temperature. In a second mode a detecting sensor receives power. In turn the detecting sensor outputs the level signals having amplitude indicative of a concentration or intensity of the environmental condition.

Interface module receives the level signals and outputs a threshold signal. Interface module includes a configuration module a linear voltage regulator and a processor . Interface module can be for example an integrated semiconductor circuit e.g. formed from silicon oxide or gallium arsenide . Configuration module can be a programmable memory such as EEPROM or some other type of memory element. Configuration module can store instructions and data related to operating sensor modules . For example configuration module stores threshold levels and other communication protocols. Configuration module can be reconfigured with updated information or new information about a new type of sensor module e.g. future sensor module by flashing the memory. In one embodiment the Interface Module may provide application programming interface API to third party sensor developers. The third party developers may use these APIs to convert their sensors to sensor packs . In another embodiment no such APIs are needed. The interface module instead provides a hardware interface with plug and play capabilities. When the third party vendor plugs their sensor into the hardware containing interface module the interface module detects the new sensor and establishes communication with the new sensors. Once the communication is established the new sensor becomes the logical equivalent of sensor modules . The new sensor therefore can deliver level signals to Interface module in response to detecting a range over the new sensor s threshold. Processor module can be a controller that executes instructions against conditions received from inputs.

Linear voltage regulator can step down voltage from power module for output to sensor modules . In a first mode linear voltage regulator provides a relatively small electrical signal such as 6 micro amps while sleeping and 500 milliamps during a 1.3 second transmit. In one embodiment processor compares a received level signal to predetermined thresholds. Responsive to detecting a level signal above a wake threshold linear voltage regulator provides power to the associated sensor module. The sensor modules thus have enough power to produce the level signal at higher amplitudes as discussed above. Responsive to detecting a level signal above a threshold interface module generates the threshold signal. Additionally in one embodiment linear voltage regulator also provides power to communication module.

Communication module receives the threshold signal and outputs an alert signal. Communication module includes components such as transceivers e.g. RF transceivers encoders antennae and the like. Communication module can be for example a plug in module or a semiconductor chip that is integrated onto the same PCB as for example interface module . In one embodiment communication module uses a handshaking protocol to initiate communication with security server e.g. to present authentication credentials . Communication module provides the alert signal to indicate that a stimuli level has surpassed the predetermined threshold. Additional information can include location information a unique identifier stimuli type stimuli level and the like. In some embodiments communication module includes a GPS Global Positioning Satellite module to determine a location of sensor pack. For example when sensor pack is coupled to a moving platform such as ship cargo or train freight its location is constantly changing. The GPS module can determine the current location of moving platform and transmit the platform s location through Communication module to security server .

Power module outputs electrical power to various components such as interface module. Power module can comprise for example a DC battery a voltage source e.g. to provide 3.6V a current source and the like. In one embodiment power module provides the raw power used by linear voltage regulator to activate sensor modules .

A coverage area is modeled and analyzed by a software application. For example a grid of city streets can be input to the application which determines an approximate area or density for which sensor packs e.g. sensor packs should be placed for optimal coverage.

The sensor packs are deployed around the coverage area . Various mechanisms can be used to securely attach the sensor packs to stable bases. For example the sensor packs can be attached to buildings light poles and other municipal structures.

In response to detecting an environmental anomaly a sensor pack outputs an alert signal as discussed below in greater detail in association with . For example in response to a dirty bomb detonation a radiation sensor module e.g. radiation sensor module can detect small amounts of gamma radiation.

A response center associated with the alerting sensor pack is notified . The alert signal is passed to a security server e.g. security server through a communication medium such as a satellite. In some embodiments additional verification can be required before contacting the response center. For example a second alert signal from a separate sensor pack can be used for verification. At the response center the personnel can be alerted using for example a telephone call a bell and the like. Additionally a location of the anomaly can be presented with a graphical user interface showing a grid of city streets.

The sensor packs remain in a first mode during normal sleep operations. As such the sensor packs use a low amount of power and can have a battery life of multiple years. Once an environmental condition above a wake threshold is detected the sensor pack switches to a second mode. In the second mode a linear voltage regulator e.g. linear voltage regulator ramps up the power provided to an alerting sensor pack. In turn the alerting sensor pack is able to output a level signal indicative of the intensity of the environmental condition. The interface module monitors the level and if a threshold is surpassed an alert signal is output .

The order in which the steps of the methods of the present invention are performed is purely illustrative in nature. The steps can be performed in any order or in parallel unless otherwise indicated by the present disclosure. The methods of the present invention may be performed in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof operating on a single computer or multiple computers of any type. Software embodying the present invention may comprise computer instructions in any form e.g. source code object code interpreted code etc. stored in any computer readable storage medium e.g. a ROM a RAM a magnetic media a compact disc a DVD etc. . Such software may also be in the form of an electrical data signal embodied in a carrier wave propagating on a conductive medium or in the form of light pulses that propagate through an optical fiber.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention in its broader aspect and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as fall within the true spirit of this invention.

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purposes or it can comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program can be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and modules presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems can be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatuses to perform the method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages can be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Of course wherever a component of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific operating system or environment.

It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art that the above described implementations are merely exemplary and many changes can be made without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such changes and modifications that come within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

