---

title: Optimizing infrastructure support based on authenticated access, validation and context related information retrieval
abstract: fSystems and methods for infrastructure support optimization are described. The system includes an authorization module to verify a user, based on authorization rules, to provide access to the user to one or more infrastructure elements, and obtain ticket attribute data from a ticketing system, based on the verification, where the ticket attribute data comprises a plurality of attributes associated with a ticket to be resolved by the user. The authorization module also receives a support action, to be performed on the infrastructure element to resolve the ticket, where the support action includes at least one of an operation to resolve the ticket, and a standard support service. Further, the system includes a log generation module to append the support action to an operation log with corresponding ticket attribute data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531725&OS=09531725&RS=09531725
owner: TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
number: 09531725
owner_city: Mumbai
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140924
---
The present subject matter relates in general to infrastructure support and in particular to systems and methods for controlling infrastructure support services.

Information technology IT has grown from many years and today IT serves as a backbone for entire business structure. The execution of the business processes lie at the very heart of the day to day operations of an organization. Further many business processes rely on the IT to an extent that the business processes may cease to operate without a properly functioning IT system.

The functioning of the IT system may be based on infrastructure in the organization. The infrastructure of the IT system refers to basic support system that is shared among all users involved in the business process. Typically IT infrastructure of an organization includes basic set of components which are shared by all IT business applications. The IT infrastructure not only refers to hardware but also includes a combined set of elements such as software hardware networks facilities and information in order to develop test deliver monitor control and support IT services.

Generally organizations consider the IT infrastructure as an important and integral part for functioning of an organization. Accordingly the organizations set up IT infrastructure support to maintain the IT infrastructure elements. Further the IT infrastructure support may be optimized to offer better services which are focused on managing the IT infrastructure elements.

System s and method s for controlling of infrastructure support services are described herein where the controlling includes managing support services provided to infrastructure transparency in the provided services and optimization of the support services. The systems and methods described herein can be implemented on computing devices including but not limited to servers desktop computers hand held devices mobile devices notebooks and laptops.

Information technology IT infrastructure of an organization typically include infrastructure elements such as software hardware and other components which may be used to deliver IT services to its customers. Generally an efficient delivery of the IT services requires proper support from a set of infrastructure tools which perform operations on the infrastructure elements. Often times delivery of IT services may be interrupted due to various reasons for example due to malfunctioning of one of the infrastructure elements. Each such interruption may be resolved individually and may be done by way of a ticketing system that allots a ticket identification number or a code to each interruption or to say to each IT service related issue.

The allotted tickets may be allocated to a production support team. Further typically each production support team may share a common access credential such as user identification name and password to remotely connect to an infrastructure element to address the issue. The process of resolving the issue involves input of several codes and commands by one or more members in the support team. At times the members may inadvertently input few inappropriate commands which may lead to further issues in the infrastructure element. Furthermore such issues in the infrastructure element may disrupt organizational processes and may cause damages in terms of finance reputation etc.

Typically various operations being performed on infrastructure elements may be appended to a log that is maintained at individual infrastructure elements. Such logs may include information such as start time of operation end time of operation date and day of performing operation. The logs from each infrastructure element may be used for monitoring purposes. However such logs require monitoring process on individual infrastructure element which limits collective or coherent monitoring of operations. Further such logs may not provide precise and complete information about the operations. For example since all the members of the team share a common access credential identifying a member responsible for input of the inappropriate command on an infrastructure element remains as a challenge during the monitoring process. Due to lack in accountability ability to control the processes or operations performed by the team of users remains limited. Incorporation of any improvement or any attempt to reduce possibility of such situations becomes difficult as the issues may occur frequently from various users. In addition all the users of the production support team may be allowed to execute operation on all the infrastructure elements. In such conditions a user with less experience in handling certain issues may also try to resolve the issues in certain infrastructure elements by performing certain operations. Due to limitation of restriction in access to infrastructure elements certain operations may result in malfunctioning of the infrastructure element.

Further often times same issue may be resolved multiple times using similar operations however at each instance of the same issue a user from the support team may have to analyze the issue and provide the operation to resolving without benefitting from previous actions that are performed to resolve the issue. This in turn may affect the efficiency of the support services.

According to an implementation of the present subject matter systems and methods for infrastructure support optimization are described herein. On one hand the described systems and methods provides authenticated and controlled access to the users and on other hand the methods may also provide context related information to a user. In an implementation users of a production support team are verified based on authorization rules which include primary level authorization and secondary level authorization. The primary level authorization may be performed based on user identification user id and password to provide authorized access to users of a production support team to one or more infrastructure elements. The secondary level authorization may be performed based on role of the user in the production support team to provide a controlled access to the user for particular infrastructure elements from among the one or more infrastructure elements.

In an implementation the user may be provided with a single point access to various infrastructure elements to perform operations on various server platforms such as Windows Unix and Linux . Each server platform may be associated with one or more infrastructure elements. The server platforms and the infrastructure elements associated with the server platforms may be made available to the user for accessing based on the secondary level authorization. Subsequently a ticket is created for each issue in the infrastructure elements which needs to be resolved by the production support team. The tickets may be allotted to the users for resolving the issue associated with the tickets. In an example users may be notified regarding the issues associated with the infrastructure elements and the users may be allowed to create a ticket from a ticketing system for each issue. In one implementation the tickets may be allotted to each user of the production support team and the user may be notified regarding the allotted tickets after the primary level authorization. Further the user may be provided with ticket attribute data such as ticket id ticket category ticket type ticket summary and the like.

In order to resolve the issue associated with the allotted tickets the user may perform support action on the infrastructure elements. The support action may either be user driven knowledgebase driven or may be a standard support service. User driven support action may be understood as operations performed by the user himself and knowledgebase driven support action may be understood as operations performed by using available solutions as a reference. The user may search in the knowledgebase for available solutions such as knowledge articles or available steps for resolving the issue. Knowledgebase may be defined as a knowledge repository and may either be a static knowledgebase or a dynamic knowledgebase. The static knowledgebase may be understood as a repository of information which helps the user to refer to usual steps of resolving the issue. In an example the static knowledgebase may be a web based service used to fetch available information on the issue associated with the ticket. The available information may be fetched in the form of knowledge articles or standard operating procedures. The dynamic knowledgebase is a repository of all operations performed by all users of the production support team in resolving one or more issues associated with the infrastructure elements. When the user searches in the knowledgebase be it static knowledgebase or dynamic knowledgebase one or more ticket attributes of the ticket may be associated with the search. Based on the ticket attributes the knowledgebase may retrieve one or more available solutions for resolving the issue. The retrieved steps may be referred to as context related information as the retrieved information is pertaining to the issue.

Further apart from searching in knowledgebase the user may be allowed to execute standard services which are fetched from a service catalog. The service catalog provides to the user a categorized list of services that are included as standard services for the infrastructure elements. The standard services fetched from the service catalog may be based on ticket attributes of the ticket. In cases where there are no appropriate steps provided to the user either by the knowledgebase or by the service catalog the user may choose to resolve the issue himself. For example a service may be required to be performed such as performing compliance check on the server. Such service requests may also be generated as tickets and may be allotted to the users. In order to attend to such service requests the user may utilize the standard services from the service catalog.

In one implementation every step that the user performs in a process for resolving the issue may be subjected to validation rules. The validation rules may be understood as the rules that are defined for purpose of avoiding inadvertent human errors and to provide controlled execution of operations on the infrastructure elements. The validation rules may be specified for a specific user role of the user and an infrastructure element on which the operation is to be performed. In an implementation when the user tries to execute an operation the operation may be subjected to validation rule check to determine if there is any validation rules associated with the operation. In order to satisfy the validation rule check the user may be notified with a validation message. In an example the validation message may request the user to provide a password for execution of the operation. In case the validation rule check is satisfied the operation may be executed on the infrastructure element and otherwise the operation may be declined. Such precise validations enhance enforcement of control over the operations that each user performs on the infrastructure element.

Further every operation performed by the user may be captured and appended to an operation log which functions as the dynamic knowledgebase. In an example the operations performed by the user and corresponding validation rule checks may also be appended to the operations log. As mentioned earlier the dynamic knowledgebase functions as a repository of information pertaining to support actions performed on various infrastructure elements by various users and may help in retrieval of the context related information. The operation log includes the information in a manner so as to facilitate easy retrieval of the collected information based on the ticket attributes. In an example the knowledgebase may be realized with a relational database management system RDBMS to facilitate extraction of related information. Such retrieval and extractions help in better resolving of the issue and thus save time. Furthermore since the operation log includes operations performed by every user of the production support team monitoring the log become easier and enhances better auditing. Thus the method s described herein provides controlled transparent and optimized infrastructure support to the production support team of an organization.

While aspects of described system s and method s of infrastructure support optimization system can be implemented in any number of different computing systems environments and or configurations the implementations are described in the context of the following exemplary system s and method s .

In one implementation the system may be communicatively connected to user devices . . . N corresponding to users in one or more production support teams through a network . The user devices . . . N may be hereinafter individually and commonly referred to as user device s . The user device s may include multiple applications that may be running to perform several functions as needed by different users and individual organizations. The user device may be implemented as but are not limited to desktop computers hand held devices laptops or other portable computers tablet computers and the like. Similarly the system may be communicatively connected to one or more infrastructure elements . . . N hereinafter referred to as infrastructure element s through the network . In said implementation the user device is communicatively connected to the one or more infrastructure elements via the system .

The network and may be a wireless or a wired network or a combination thereof. The network can be implemented as one of the different types of networks such as intranet local area network LAN wide area network WAN the internet and such. The network may either be a dedicated network or a shared network which represents an association of the different types of networks that use a variety of protocols for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP HTTP Secure HTTPS Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP etc. to communicate with each other.

In an implementation one or more issues associated with the infrastructure elements may be determined and allotted to the users of the production support team for resolving the issues by communicating with the user devices . In one implementation tickets may be created in a ticketing system not shown in the figures for the determined issues. The generated tickets may be allotted to the users for resolving the issues associated with the tickets. In an example users may be notified regarding the issues associated with the infrastructure elements and the users may be allowed to create a ticket from a ticketing system for each issue. In one implementation the generated tickets may be allotted to each user of the production support team and the user may be notified regarding the allotted tickets.

Each ticket generated in the ticketing system may be associated with ticket attribute data which includes but not limited to ticket id ticket category ticket type and ticket summary. Further in order to resolve the issue each user of the production support team may be verified with unique login credentials which provides a controlled access to the infrastructure element via the system . The infrastructure element may include one or more server platforms such as Windows Unix and Linux . When the user device is connected to the infrastructure elements through the system the system functions as a proxy console for communication between the user device and the infrastructure element . In such a scenario user can access one or more infrastructure elements with one time login.

In one implementation a support action may be received to be executed on the infrastructure elements . The support action may either be an operation performed by the user himself or an operation performed by using search results from a knowledgebase. Further every operation performed by the user on the infrastructure elements may be appended to an operation log with corresponding ticket attribute data.

The functions of the various elements shown in the figure including any functional blocks labeled as processor s may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. Moreover explicit use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may implicitly include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware network processor Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Read Only Memory ROM for storing software Random Access Memory RAM non volatile storage. Other hardware conventional and or custom may also be included.

The interface may include a variety of software and hardware interfaces for example interface for peripheral device s such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone an external memory a speaker and a printer. Further the interface s may include one or more ports for connecting the system with other computing devices such as web servers and external databases. The interface s may facilitate multiple communications within a wide variety of protocols and networks such as a network including wired networks e.g. LAN cable etc. and wireless networks e.g. WLAN cellular satellite etc.

The memory may be coupled to the processor and may include any computer readable medium known in the art including for example volatile memory such as Static Random Access Memory SRAM and Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM and or non volatile memory such as Read Only Memory ROM Erasable Programmable ROMs EPROMs flash memories hard disks optical disks and magnetic tapes.

The system may also include module s and data . The modules and the data may be coupled to the processor s . The modules amongst other things include routines programs objects components data structures etc. which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The modules may also be implemented as signal processor s state machine s logic circuitries and or any other device or component that manipulate signals based on operational instructions.

In another aspect of the present subject matter the modules may be computer readable instructions which when executed by a processor processing unit perform any of the described functionalities. The machine readable instructions may be stored on an electronic memory device hard disk optical disk or other machine readable storage medium or non transitory medium. In one implementation the computer readable instructions can be also be downloaded to a storage medium via a network connection.

The module s includes for example an authorization module an integration module a support action assistance module a validation module a log generation module a service assistance module and other module s . The other module s include programs that supplement applications or functions performed by an infrastructure support optimization system such as system . The data serves amongst other things as a repository for storing data obtained and processed by one or more module s . The data includes for example authorization data rule data activity data and other data . The other data includes data generated as a result of the execution of one or more modules in the other module s .

According to an implementation a user from a production support team may be verified with login credentials by the authorization module to provide access to one or more infrastructure elements via the system . The verification may be based on certain authorization rules which include for example primary level authorization and secondary level authorization. The authorization rules may be stored in the authorization data . The primary level authorization may be performed based on the user id provided by the user and secondary level authorization is performed based on a user attribute such as role or designation of the user to provide controlled access to the infrastructure elements . For the purpose of verification the login credentials and role of all the users of the production support team may be stored in the authorization data . In an example the authorization module may authenticate the user with single sign on SSO . The SSO provides access to the infrastructure elements without asking the user to input login credentials at each stage of access.

In an implementation the integration module integrates the system with external tools not shown in figures through application programming interfaces APIs provided by each of the external tools. In cases where the external tools provide API libraries and web services for integration the integration module may interact with the external tools through the API libraries and the web services. Examples of the external tools include but are not limited to a configuration management database CMDB a ticketing system and a static knowledgebase. In order to facilitate efficient resolving of tickets the dependency tree access to the knowledgebase such as a button click or link and the list of server platforms may be provided in a unified screen layout in the user device .

The CMDB may be understood as a database that includes information pertaining to configuration and components of the infrastructure elements . The components of the infrastructure elements may be referred to as configurable items CI . Since the system is integrated with the CMDB the integration module may provide a dependency tree or dependency graph to the user which indicates various applications that are hosted by the server platform and various network devices that are connected to the server platform. Such information regarding the server platform may be used for troubleshooting purpose by the user. In an example the CMDB may also provide information regarding the various server platforms to which the user has access based on the secondary level authorization.

Further the ticketing system can be understood as a system that tracks issues relating to the infrastructure elements . Each issue tracked or identified may be logged by the ticketing system as a ticket and each ticket may be allotted a unique identification number which is referred to as ticket id. The user of the production support team may be allotted one or more tickets. Once the user is verified based on primary level authorization the user may be exposed to a list of allotted tickets on the user interface of the user device . For each ticket allotted to the user the integration module may fetch attributes of the ticket from the ticketing system and provide it to the user. The ticket attributes may be defined as one or more characteristics of the ticket which indicate the issue associated with the ticket. The ticket attributes may include but not limited to ticket category ticket summary ticket type and the like. It will be appreciated that the various examples listed here are only for the purpose of explanation and not as a limitation. Further names and types of ticket attributes may be changed based on configuration of the ticketing system.

Further the user may select a ticket from among the list of tickets for resolving the issue associated with the ticket. Subsequently the ticket attributes may be fetched by the integration module from the ticketing system and the user may be navigated through the system to the infrastructure element having the issue.

In order to resolve the issue associated with the ticket the user performs a support action on the infrastructure element corresponding to the allotted ticket. The support action may either be a user driven operations or knowledgebase KB driven operations. The user driven operations may be understood as those operations which the user performs himself through input of one or more commands based on his analysis and the KB driven operations may be understood as those operations which the user performs by using few available solutions. The available solutions retrieved from the knowledgebase are provided to the user as a reference for resolving the issue. The knowledgebase acts as a repository for context related information collection and helps in easy retrieval of the collected information.

The knowledgebase includes the static knowledgebase which is provided as an external tool and a dynamic knowledgebase which may be provided by way of an operation log. The static knowledgebase may be a web based service which helps the user to access available solutions with steps for resolving the issues. In an implementation the integration module may provide access to the static and dynamic knowledgebase through an interface such as a button or a key named as Search and Knowledgebase . In case where the user searches for available solution in the static knowledgebase the support action assistance module may obtain a request from the user for the search in form of a search query. For the purpose of searching one or more ticket attributes may be associated with the search query. Based on the ticket attributes the support action assistance module may retrieve available solution from the static knowledgebase.

Similarly the user may also choose to search for available solutions or available information in the dynamic knowledgebase. The dynamic knowledgebase may be provided by way of an operation log which functions as a repository of previously appended operations performed by the users of the production support team as will be explained in detail later. Every operation performed by the users on the infrastructure elements is appended to the operation log with corresponding ticket attributes.

When the support action assistance module obtains the search query for searching available steps in the dynamic knowledgebase one or more ticket attributes may be associated with the search query. Subsequently the support action assistance module may analyze the operation log to identify one or more operations based on the ticket attributes. For example the ticket attribute may be ticket category and the support action assistance module may analyze the operation log to identify operations which match with the ticket category. In addition to ticket attributes the search query may also include user id one or more attributes of infrastructure elements date range and session id. The identified operations may be indicative of a procedure steps or a set of commands for resolving the ticket. The retrieved available solutions from the knowledgebase may be provided to the user as a reference for resolving the issue.

The operational log may be defined as a log of operations history which includes steps of multiple operations performed by one or more users in resolving issues associated with the infrastructure elements . The operation log may include one or more operations which have been performed previously for resolving a same issue or a similar issue to that of the issue being resolved by the user. The previously appended operations for the same issue will also be appended with ticket attribute data for example ticket category or ticket type. Thus when the support action assistance module analyzes the operation log for available solutions for resolving the issue associated with the ticket one or more attributes of the ticket may be matched with one or more appended operations in the operation log. When a match for one or more attributes of the ticket is satisfied the steps or procedure associated with the operations may be fetched from the operation log and provided to the user on the user device . In an example one or more operations may be fetched and user may select appropriate operation as reference from among the fetched operations. Such operations fetched by the support action assistance module may be referred to as context related operations context related information may be considered relevant for resolving the issue associated with the ticket. Further the user may be allowed to view the steps and procedure associated with the selected operation and uses them as reference to resolve the issue. For instance the selected operation may guide the user in resolving the issue. In case where the issue is similar to the issue to be resolved the user will be able to perform similar steps associated with the selected operation.

Thus owing to provision of querying the knowledge base which in addition to including static information also includes dynamically updated information may reduce the time and efforts needed for resolving the ticket thereby providing an efficient infrastructure support system. This in turn may reflect better functioning of the underlying infrastructure elements. The context related operations help in better resolving of the issues.

In addition to referring the retrieved solutions and identified operations the user may also be allowed to execute standard services from a service catalog. The system may also be integrated to the service catalog which provides to the user a categorized list of services that are included as a support service for the infrastructure elements . The service catalog may also include description of the services categorization of the services and indicate steps to avail the services. In one example a set of services may be included as standard services in the service catalog by the production support team in offline mode. The inclusion of services as standard services may be subjected to one or more criteria based on which the production support team may determine to include the service in the service catalog. When the user searches for available standard services in the service catalog based on the ticket attributes one or more standard services corresponding to the same or similar issue may be provided to the user. Once the user selects a provided standard service the operation or commands associated with the standard service may be executed immediately to resolve the issue. In one example when a set of services are provided to the user the user may be allowed to select one or more services from the categorized list of standard services and execute the services on the infrastructure elements. Such standard services facilitate efficient resolving of issues.

In one implementation upon receiving the support action the validation module may perform a validation rule check on the received support action. Validation rules may be defined as a formula or expression that evaluates the received support action based on certain standards for execution of operation which may be specified by the production support team personnel or the organization itself. The validation rules may be defined for a specific user role of the user and an infrastructure element on which the support action is to be performed. In one example validation rules may be defined for sensitive or potentially dangerous operations and may be stored in the rule data . Based on the secondary level authorization the user may be provided access to few infrastructure elements or few server platforms. In addition to such controlled access the validation rules help in controlled execution of commands or operations on the infrastructure elements . Further such validation rules protect against inadvertent human errors which may lead to further issues in the infrastructure elements . For example if a major bank s server which is communicating with several ATMs is rebooted by mistake the ATMs and online bank services would cease to function. Further unintended execution of such sensitive operation leads to issues. In another example the user may input a command rmdif which when executed may remove a directory which is interfaced with the server platform. Furthermore before executing the operation on the infrastructure element based on validation rules defined for the infrastructure element the user may be provided a validation message and may be prompted to provide response. In one example the response may be a confirmation such as Proceed or Cancel or a password for further authorization. Accordingly the execution of the support action on the infrastructure element may be subject to the response.

In one implementation the validation message may request the user to enter password for execution of the operation. For example the validation message may simply recite Enter Password or Confirm to proceed followed with options Confirm and Cancel . The passwords needed for the execution of certain commands may be stored in the rule data by the production support team personnel. In such cases of validation rule check through validation message the validation module may validate the response with rule data and ascertain if the response to such messages such as the password is satisfied. In case the response from the user to such validation messages are not satisfied the validation module may decline the operation and notify the user regarding such declination of operation. For example when the execution of the operation is declined the validation module may notify the user with a validation message which may recite Not allowed to execute or Fail . Alternatively the validation module may execute the operation either when there are no validations rule associated with the operation or when the commands are ascertained to be non sensitive.

In one implementation the execution of few operations by certain users on certain infrastructure elements may be considered sensitive. For example an operation 1 by the user 1 on server 1 may be considered as sensitive. In such cases validation rules may be defined for combination of users and servers and may be stored in the rule data . Validation rules may be defined at role level as well. Thus the execution and restriction of the operation on various server platforms or infrastructure elements may be subjected to validation rules. In case the validation module determines a validation rule associated with execution of an operation the validation module may notify the user regarding the validation check with a validation message. In another example the operation may be directed towards deleting a file from a directory. The validation rule check may also be directed towards size of the file to be deleted. For example the system based on the validation rule may disallow the user to delete the file of size exceeding a predefined threshold. Although the validation rules are described herein with respect to specific examples it will be appreciated that the validation rules are not limited to the specific example and may be implemented in various other ways to provide a controlled access to the users.

In an implementation the log generation module may capture every operation performed by the user to resolve the issue and may append the captured operations in the operation log which may be stored in the activity data . Further the log generation module may associate every appended operation with the corresponding ticket attributes. The operation log with operations associated with the ticket attributes may function as the dynamic knowledgebase.

Apart from the appended operations the operation log may also include date and time user id session id support action performed by the user on the ticket server attribute data and other details. The other details may include comments such as Pass or Fail which indicates if the execution of operation on the infrastructure element was successful or otherwise. The details pertaining to various components of the operation log has been explained in detail with reference to . Further details regarding the user such as user name and user id may also be included in the operation log to create an efficient operation log. In one example the operation log may also indicate the validation rule check performed against each operation and corresponding validation message. Since the operation log includes details about the ticket the user and the operations performed on the server platform accounting as to which user has performed which operation on which server platform becomes easier. Accordingly a user who has input inappropriate commands may be identified and may be subjected to training In another example the operation log may be used to determine time duration involved for process of resolving a similar kind of ticket by each of the users and based on the determination a time efficient way of resolving the ticket may determined. Further the user when resolved the ticket may be requested to train other members.

In one implementation the service assistance module may analyze the operation log based on recurrence criteria to determine if there are any recurring operations performed by one or more users which are appended to the operation log. The recurrence criteria may be defined as a criteria based on which an operation which has been performed more than a threshold number of times in a predetermined time interval may be identified. The threshold number and the predetermined time interval may be defined by a user say production support team personnel. Accordingly the service assistance module may analyze the operation log on a periodic basis say after every predetermined time interval. For example the service assistance module may determine that an operation 1 has been appended more than a pre determined number of times over the pre determined interval in the operation log. In such case the operation 1 may be considered as recurring operation.

Further in an example the service assistance module may store such recurring operations in the activity data and notify the production support team personnel. The recurring operations stored in the activity data may be analyzed offline by the production support team personnel. Based on the offline analysis the production support team personnel may indicate to the system to provide one or more recurring operations from among the recurring operations stored in activity data as standard service. On receiving such indication the service assistance module may provide the recurring operations as a standard service in the service catalog.

Source depicted in the operation log indicates a point of initiation of the appended operation and the progress of the operation till the execution. For example one of the appended operations in the operation log illustrates the source as K Base against user 1. Such operation may indicate that the user has searched for available solutions in the knowledgebase. Similarly the operation log may also indicate the standard services executed from the service catalog as Catalog .

The last three columns of the operation log depict command CMD Rule and Details . The CMD indicates the command input by the corresponding user in the first column. As can be seen in the when the user 3 attempts to input a command reboot on a specific server the support action validation module may determine that the operation received from the user 3 on that specific server is associated with validation rules. The log generation module may capture the command and append it to the operation log under CMD . Further as depicted under the Rule the user 3 may be prompted to provide a password when the command reboot is provided. Based on the validation the command may be executed. The Details in the operation log depicts a status of execution such commands such as pass or fail . Since the operation log is appended with all information regarding the resolving of an issue of a ticket auditing the production support team may be easier. Further the Details may help a person who audits to identify the user whose execution of operation denotes a fail status and may investigate in case of repeated failure attempts. In an example the operation log may also include time duration of an operation performed by a user to resolve an issue. The audit person may identify an operation from the operation log which involves less time to resolve an issue and use the steps of the operation to train other users.

The method s and may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions etc. that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The method s and may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The order in which the method s is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the methods and or an alternative method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the methods and can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof. The methods and are explained with reference to the system however it will be understood that the methods can be implemented in other systems as well.

In an implementation one or more of the method s described herein may be implemented at least in part as instructions embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium and executable by one or more computing devices. In general a processor for example a microprocessor receives instructions from a non transitory computer readable medium for example a memory and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more method s including one or more of the method s described herein. Such instructions may be stored and or transmitted using any of a variety of known computer readable media.

At block based on verifying the user ticket attributes of a ticket which includes an issue associated with the infrastructure element may be obtained from a ticketing system by the system . The ticketing system may log the issues and each issue may be referred to as a ticket and may have a unique identification number. Once the user is verified the user may be notified regarding the tickets allotted to him based on which the user may obtain ticket attribute data from the ticketing system. In an example the ticket attribute data may include but not limited to ticket id ticket category ticket type ticket summary are provided to the user.

At block based on the ticket attribute data a support action to be performed on the infrastructure element is received. The support action may either be an operation performed by the user based on his analysis of the issue or operation performed by referring to available solutions from a knowledgebase. The operation may include one or more steps directed towards resolving the issue associated with the ticket.

In an implementation the user may search in a knowledgebase for available solutions to resolve the ticket. The knowledgebase functions as a repository to optimize information collection and helps in easy retrieval of the collected information. The knowledgebase may include a static knowledgebase and a dynamic knowledgebase. The static knowledgebase may be a web based external application or web based service which when queried retrieves available information from its repository to help the user resolve the issue. The dynamic knowledgebase functions as a repository of previously appended operations in an operation log which builds from time to time. In an example when the user searches in the knowledgebase for available solutions the ticket attributes may be associated with the search. The support action assistance module may receive request for search and search in the knowledgebase for available solution to be retrieved based on ticket attributes.

At block it may be ascertained if there are any validation rules associated with the received support action. In an example based on rule data it may be ascertained if any validation rules are associated with the received support action. The rule data indicates whether any rules have been described for a support action. The validation rules may be defined for a specific user role of the user and an infrastructure element which the user has accessed. The validation rules provide a controlled access to the user for execution of certain operations.

In such cases where a validation rule is associated with the received operation from the requested infrastructure element the system may prompt the user with a validation message. In an example the validation message may require the user to input a password. In an example the support action validation module may perform the validation rule check and provide corresponding validation message to the user.

At block if it is determined that there are any validation rule checks associated with the operation the method may branch to Yes branch to block .

At block it is ascertained whether the validation rule checks performed at block are satisfied. The system may ascertain if the passwords input by the users are valid. In case the validation rule check is not satisfied the method branches No Branch to block .

At block the received operation is declined. In other words the user may not able to execute the requested operation on the requested infrastructure element since the validation rule check is not satisfied. In an example the validation module may decline the execution of the operation if the validation rule check is not satisfied.

At block the user is notified regarding the declination of the operation. In an example the notification may be a message which simple recites Fail . Such declination of received operation is also appended to the operation log . In an example the validation module may notify the user regarding the declined operation.

Referring back to block if it is ascertained that the there are no validation rule checks associated with the operation the method proceeds to No branch block . Similarly if at block it is determined that the validation rule check is satisfied the method proceeds to Yes branch block .

At block the received operation may be executed on the infrastructure element to resolve the issue. In one example the support action assistance module may execute the operation on the infrastructure element .

At block the operations performed by the user including the execution of standard services from the service catalog may be appended to the operation log . In an implementation the operations performed by the user himself to resolve the ticket may also be captured and appended in the operation log. During appending the operations the ticket attributes of the resolved ticket is also appended with the operation. In addition to indicating the user the issue and the infrastructure element on which the operation was performed the operation log also includes ticket attribute data of the resolved tickets. Therefore the operation log provides context related information which may be used for further analysis such as auditing and automation of services. In an example the log generation module may append every operation performed by the user including the validation rule check and corresponding validation messages to the operation log .

At block the operation log such as the operation log is analyzed to identify at least one recurring operation based on recurrence criteria. The recurrence criteria may be indicative of recurrence of an operation over a pre determined number of times in a pre determined interval. The pre determined interval may be understood as a time period such as one week in which the recurrence of a particular appended operation may be determined. In an example the service assistance module may identify the recurring operations from the operation log .

At block the at least one recurring operation is provided as a standard service in a service catalog based on the determining. The service catalog provides to the user a categorized list of services that are included as support service for the infrastructure elements . The recurring operations may be provided as standard services in the service catalog which may be retrieved and executed by the user. The retrieval of the standard service from a service catalog may be based on ticket attribute data associated with the resolving ticket.

Although embodiments for methods and systems for infrastructure support optimization have been described in a language specific to structural features and or methods it is to be understood that the invention is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as exemplary embodiments for infrastructure support optimization.

