---

title: Presence verification within a wireless environment
abstract: A first device wirelessly transmits beacon frames having distinct identifying contents within each. The first device issues a request to a second device to report what beacon frame contents the second device may have received. The second device sends a response to the first device. The first device analyzes the response in view of the beacon frame contents actually sent, the respective radio-frequency broadcast power of the beacon frames, and so on. Based on the analysis, the first device may determine proximity or other information regarding the responsive other device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549319&OS=09549319&RS=09549319
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09549319
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140609
---
Many different types of devices use wireless resources to exchange data with each other or to perform various cooperative operations. Methods and apparatus for increasing the security of such wireless functions are continually sought after.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Many different computing devices or other apparatus include wireless resources for communicating data to other devices coordinating respective functions during cooperative operations and so on. Smart phones tablet computers wearable computers including those with eyewear or wristwatch like form factors media access or viewing devices e book readers mass data storage devices wireless access points and so on are just a few examples of computing devices which may be connected using a wireless network.

Often such devices are relatively near to each other during an exchange of files or data during cooperative operations such as game play and so forth. For example a user of a first device may wish to communicate contact information or credit card data to a second device such as a point of sale unit within a physical merchant retail setting. Thus the two respective devices are proximate to each other perhaps separated by just a few feet prior to the intended exchange. However the user of the first device may wish to ensure that data is sent securely to the second device and not inadvertently communicated to a potentially malicious actor.

Proximity may be expressed in terms of distance a common structure signal strength and so forth. For example two devices may be deemed proximate when they are within a distance threshold such within 10 feet. In another example the two devices may be deemed proximate to one another when they are located within a common room building floor vehicle and so forth. In yet another example the two devices may be deemed proximate when they are able to communicate wirelessly with one another using a lowest available power output during transmission of data.

One illustrative operation for determination of proximity is as follows the user of the first device provides input requesting verification that the second device is close by. The first device assumes an access point mode and transmits a set of beacon frames. In the set different beacon frames may be transmitted at respectively different radio frequency RF power output levels. The beacon frames may include different identifying data such as different service set identifiers SSIDs a randomly or pseudo randomly generated code an arbitrarily selected word or other string a nonce or other content that distinguishes one or more of the beacon frames from the other beacon frames.

In another case a particular beacon frame may be sent two or more times either consecutively or in a pattern with other distinct beacon frames. That is a beacon frame having the same SSID nonce or other identifying data may be transmitted more than once within a set. Any suitable number of beacon frames may be transmitted such as 3 6 10 and so forth over a period of time using one or more respective RF channels or carrier frequencies in accordance with a particular wireless protocol or standard. A beacon frame contains information that advertises or otherwise discloses availability of a device or a wireless network. Beacon frames may be formatted in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE standards 802.11 such as those applying to a wireless local area network WLAN . For instance signaling protocols such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth may be used. In one example beacon frames are transmitted by an access point AP within an infrastructure basic service set BSS . Other suitable frame or packet formats may also be used.

As used herein a nonce refers to an arbitrary number word code string or other data that is used on a limited basis within a beacon frame. In some implementations a particular nonce is used one time and never again. The nonce may be randomly or pseudorandomly generated or selected. The nonce may be used to ensure that previously sent beacon frames or other communications cannot be exploited in a replay attack. The variability afforded by the nonce increases the difficulty for a malicious party to form an illegitimate response.

The first device then issues a request to the second device requesting that the second device provide data or an RF fingerprint corresponding to one some or all of the beacon frames. For instance the request may instruct the second device to provide an RF fingerprint including at least a portion of the specific identifiers or nonces sent in each of the beacon frames and to provide received signal strength indications RSSIs for each of the beacon frames. The request may also specify other criteria for inclusion in the RF fingerprint such as SSIDs or other data transmitted by sources other than the first device. Other request criteria may include a specified time span request particular ones of the beacon frames for inclusion in the response and so forth.

A request may specify information regarding the content or particular portions of the content of one or more beacon frames sent by a device issuing the request. The information sent from a device in response to the request may be used to make a determination regarding the proximity of the respondent device whether or not the respondent device is part of a local network and so on.

The second device then sends a response or response data to the first device in accordance with the request. The response data may include the specified RF fingerprint or other data that the first device compares to content of the original beacon frames or corresponding portions thereof. For instance the first device may verify the SSIDs nonces or other identifying data of the RF fingerprint that match those sent in the beacon frames. Identifying data may be data codes numerical or textual strings or other suitable elements included within and used to identify respective beacon frames. Some identifying data may be included only once such as a nonce for purposes of providing a unique identifier within one corresponding beacon frame. Other identifying data may be used within plural beacon frames to identify those corresponding to a set those beacon frames sent on a particular date or in accordance with some other scheme.

The first device may also evaluate the RSSIs or other signal strength values of the response data in view of the actual RF powers used to send the respective beacon frames so as to estimate proximity of or distance to the second device. RF signal strength or amplitude decreases over distance in accordance with the inverse square law RF energy reflecting or absorbing objects located along the intervening path gain of the antennas or other RF components or other factors. Proximity of a second device to a first device may be determined in accordance with RF signal strength loss over distance. By comparing the RSSI reported by the second device with the actual RF broadcast power used by the first device the distance between the first and second devices may be estimated using one or more predetermined RF signal path loss functions or models RF signal decay functions or other techniques. Respective differentials of the reported and actual RF output powers or their respective arithmetic signs may also be used. Such a model or function may accept RF powers or RSSIs or both as inputs and estimate a distance as an output.

In one implementation operation of the following general form may be used a first differential may be calculated as a first RF output power minus a second RF output power. A second differential may be calculated as a first RSSI minus a second RSSI. The first differential and the second differential have first and second arithmetic signs signs that are positive or negative respectively. The second sign may match the first sign when the response data includes RSSIs that correctly correspond to the actual used RF output powers. That is the first sign may be used for testing the validity of the second sign.

For example first and second beacon frames may be sent at RF output powers of 20 units and 60 units respectively. The first differential is then 20 60 40 resulting in a negative first sign. The corresponding RSSIs in the response data may be 18 units and 55 units respectively. The second differential is then 18 55 37 for a negative second sign. The second sign is consistent with the first sign and thus consistent with a valid response.

The magnitudes of the RF output powers and the RSSIs may also be used to estimate distance such as difference value first scaling factor magnitude of RSSI magnitude of RF output power and then distance second scaling factor difference value . Scaling factors may be selected so as to normalize or calibrate RSSI values with respect to corresponding RF output power values. Other techniques or mathematical functions may also be used to determine a correspondence between the relative or absolute values of the RF output powers and the RSSIs.

In one regard proximity of the second device may be determined in terms of quantified distance steps or bins such as within zero to five feet within five to ten feet within ten to fifteen feet and so on. In another instance proximity may be determined in more general terms such as present or not present within a room or space of interest. In yet another instance proximity may be measured in terms of distance plus or minus some tolerance value such as seventeen feet plus or minus one foot. Other definitions or schema for designating proximity of a device relative to another device may also be used.

Using these and other verification techniques the first device may determine that the second device has reported all or a threshold amount of the beacon frame contents including those sent at relatively low RF power levels. The first device may also evaluate whether or not the sequence of magnitudes of the reported signal strength values correspond to the respective RF powers used during transmission. In particular the first device may estimate proximity of the second device in terms of units of distance based on the reported versus sent RF signal strengths. These and other techniques may be used to determine a confidence value or other indication of certainty that the first device has with respect to the proximity or other security related characteristics of the second device.

The first device may thus determine if the second device is deemed sufficiently secure to continue the present retail transaction. The first device may then communicate user contact information or credit card data to the second device or may withhold some or all data if the confidence value or estimated proximity casts doubt on the second device. Encryption or other security measures may also be employed in view of the confidence value or estimated proximity. Other operations may also be considered. For instance the second device may send its own sequence of beacon frames thereafter challenging the first device such that active two way verification has been performed.

In another illustration a first device may passively receive wireless or RF signals over a period of time as being transmitted over one or more bands or channels. The first device may store first RF data indicative of content or other characteristics of the received RF signals such as SSIDs RSSIs particular addresses or other identifying data or data elements and so forth. Timestamps for the respective RF signals may also be generated by the first device and stored with the RF data. Timestamps may include information indicative of one or more of date time of day processor tick and so forth.

The first device may then issue a request to one or more other devices to provide their own RF data for the time period of the reception or a portion thereof. Such a request may also specify that respondents need not provide RF data corresponding to their own wireless transmissions. For purposes of a present example a second device and a third device may respond to the request submitting second and third RF data respectively to the first device. The first device may then compare the first RF data to the second RF data and determine a confidence value for the second device accordingly. The first device may then compare the first RF data to the third RF data determining a confidence value for the third device as well.

In one instance the first device may receive a particular RF signal or a plurality of different RF signals during a particular period of time. Such received events may then serve to trigger the issuance of a request to the second and third devices. That is the first device may receive RF signals from one or more RF channels and then issue a request to one or more other devices in response to a particularly interesting or complex RF signal or an intensity of RF signal activity above a predetermined threshold. In this way requests to other devices may be triggered in accordance with received RF signals that provide an adequate basis for testing and validation while avoiding the issuance of requests corresponding to minimal or non existent received RF signal content.

The first device may determine that the second and third devices are likely proximate to the first device when RSSIs or similar signal strength values for all three RF data sets are comparable. In another instance the first device may determine that the second device is remote when the second RF data includes relatively weak RF signals sent from the first device RF signals that were not detected by the first device at all or a combination thereof.

In another instance the first device may determine an intersection of information expressed in the first RF data and the second RF data and an intersection of the first RF data and the third RF data. For example the first device may determine or count the number of data elements that are common to the first and second RF data. Data elements may be any particular data or portions of the RF data and may include SSIDs nonces identifiers RSSIs numerical values strings words graphical objects and so forth. The first device may then calculate or assign respective confidence values to the second device and the third device as functions of the respective intersections.

In yet another instance the first device may adjust the second or third RF data or both in accordance with a tolerance value prior to determining an intersection or performing some other comparative operation. For instance a tolerance value in time unit such as milliseconds may be added or subtracted from one or more timestamp values provided in one or more of the RF data. In this way clock drifts or timestamp differentials in the respective RF data sets may be compensated for or filtered out . Other analytical techniques calculations determinations or conclusive reasoning may also be used.

Thus a particular device having wireless capability may use RF signals actively or passively or both in order to evaluate the security risk of other devices within wireless range. The device may transmit wireless signals as a number of beacon frames having unique identifiers or other contents wherein the beacon frames are sent at respective RF power levels using one or more RF channels. Additionally or alternatively the device may receive RF signals issued from other sources for a period of time and record corresponding RF data regarding their contents measured signals strengths and so on.

The device may then request other devices to provide data or an RF fingerprint corresponding to some or all of the respective beacon frames content including identifier codes nonces and so on. Also such a request may call for RF data corresponding to other RF signals received by the other devices. Responses from one or more other devices may then be evaluated as to reported beacon frame contents signal strength values or RSSIs received RF data sequence or order of the reported contents time and date correspondences and so on.

The requesting device may determine respective confidence values proximities or other metrics regarding the responding devices. The requesting device may then determine the extent to which it will share respective kinds of data with the other devices participate in cooperative operations and so on according to the determined confidence values proximities a predefined security policy or policies or other criteria. The requesting device may further conclude or infer based on the determined proximities or other analysis that some or all of the respondent devices are part of a group located or present within a room space or area of concern that some or all of the respondent devices are likely members of the same wireless network and so on. Thus the requesting device seeks to verify the presence of one or more respondent devices within an area or space of interest.

A computing device is depicted as a laptop computer having a portable form factor and configured to perform various functions in accordance with a computer executable program code. Other computing device types or configurations such as e book readers wearable computers media devices digital cameras and so forth may also be used.

The computing device includes a communication module configured to send and receive data or information by way of radio frequency RF signals . The RF signals may be formatted or operate on respective channels in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE standards 802.11. For instance signaling protocols such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth may be used. Wi Fi is a registered trademark owned by Wi Fi Alliance Austin Tex. USA. Bluetooth is a registered trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG Inc. Kirkland Wash. USA. Other wireless signaling protocols may also be used. The communication module may include radio frequency RF circuitry a processor or other suitable constituency. Alternatively the communication module may access or control an RF circuit that performs other functions on behalf of the computing device .

A computing device is depicted as a tablet computer and is configured to perform various functions in accordance with computer executable program code. The computing device includes a communication module and is configured to communicate with other devices by way of RF signals . A computing device is depicted as a smart phone while a computing device is depicted as a desktop computer both of which are configured to communicate by way of RF signals .

Also depicted is a wireless access point that is configured to facilitate the exchange of data or information between the computing devices with one or more networks or a server or perform other communications related functions. The wireless access point defines a hub or centralized node for a wireless network of which the four computing devices are respective elements or nodes. Such a wireless network may be used within a home office setting retail store commercial space or other environment.

Thus the computing devices may communicate with each other access the one or more networks or the server and so on using RF signals communicated by way of the wireless access point . The wireless access point may operate on one or more RF channels or at respective signal strengths format or encrypt information in particular ways or perform other operations according to a particular wireless protocol such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth . The computing devices may also be configured to communicate directly with each other without directing their RF signals through the wireless access point .

However direct data sharing cooperative operations and the like between respective computing devices gives rise to security concerns regarding remote entities with malicious intent. Therefore a given computing device may seek assurance that another computing device is reasonably proximate and physically present in a space of interest and is not an imposter operating from a remote location.

One illustrative operation may be performed as follows a user is using the computing device within a waiting area of a doctor s office and the computing device is in communication with the computing device using the RF signal . The respective computing devices and have therefore exchanged and accepted identifiers names or other information as needed to address each other. The computing device appears from the perspective of the computing device as a patient records entry terminal for the doctor s office. The user has completed a patient information form using the computing device and wishes to communicate the completed form to the computing device by wireless transmission. However the user further wishes to verify that the computing device is proximate thereto and is thus present in or near to the doctor s office waiting area.

The user then actuates a soft switch within a user interface or provides other user input requesting that the physical presence and proximity of the computing device be tested and validated. The communication module then assumes an access point mode of operation in accordance with the Wi Fi protocol and transmits beacon frames of total count N using RF signals . As depicted a first beacon frame includes identifying data such as a media access control MAC address a service set identifier SSID or other data and a randomly or arbitrarily selected code. Identifying data may include various particular data elements such as MAC or other addresses nonces strings numerical values words encoded images or objects or other data. The first beacon frame may be sent on a particular RF channel or carrier frequency. The first beacon frame may include additional data elements which may be sent in place of or in addition to the illustrative content described above. The first beacon frame is also sent at a first RF power level such as a greatest RF power.

Beacon frames may be formatted in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE standards 802.11 such as those applying to a Wi Fi signaling protocol. In one example a beacon frame may include a MAC header a frame body and a frame check sequence FCS . The beacon frame may also include identifying data such as codes nonces and so on. Information included within a beacon frame may include a timestamp a beacon interval or timing between consecutive beacon frames and capability information regarding a corresponding apparatus or network . Other information may also be included. Additionally beacon frames may be characterized by the RF power at which they are broadcast the rate or interval at which beacon frames are sent and so forth.

Other suitable packets or data that are wirelessly communicated between computing devices may also be considered. Such a packet may include identifying data communicate RF power level at which it was sent data regarding the computing device or network over which it communicates and so forth. Various packet contents formatting protocols or characteristics may also be used.

The communication module then sends additional beacon frames which may have respective identifying data . The identifying data may include the MAC address nonces SSIDs and so forth. The beacon frames may be sent on one or more respective RF channels. The communication module then sends beacon frame N where N is an integer value greater than zero. Other content may also be included in the beacon frames . The respective beacon frames following the first beacon frame are transmitted at successively lesser RF powers ending with the beacon frame N which is sent at a lowest RF power level.

Thus a total of N beacon frames have been transmitted from the computing device at X different RF power levels and including D different identifying data where X and D are integer values greater than zero. In some implementations N X and D may be the same value. The timing or rate of sending the respective beacon frames may be regular irregular pseudo randomly varied or varied in accordance with a predetermined function or timing scheme. Non limiting examples of such functions include a logarithmic rise or decay a power curve a linear rise or decay a piece wise linear or non linear function and so forth. In another instance advertising frames in accordance with a Bluetooth protocol may be used in place of the beacon frames . For other protocols other frames which are functionally similar to beacon frames or advertising frames may also be used.

The communication module may then send a request to the computing device . The request queries the computing device to provide a response including data regarding the beacon frames previously sent. The request may be configured to omit information which may enable the computing device to reconstruct or guess as to the contents of the beacon frames .

A request may require information about the identifying data content or characteristics of one or more beacon frames sent by a computing device issuing the request . The information sent from a computing device in response to the request may be used to make a determination regarding the proximity of the respondent computing device whether or not the respondent computing device is part of a local network and so on. A request may specify particular data or elements included in one or more respective beacon frames to be reported back from the respondent computing device or devices . A request may specify a date or time RF band or channel or other parameters regarding RF signal content that may have been passively received by the respondent computing device or devices . The computing device issuing a request may then compare RF signal or beacon frame content received or issued by it against data or RF signal characteristics reported back by another computing device answering the request .

For instance the request may include a query to the effect of what RF signal content did you receive over the last 2 seconds or what access point identifiers or basic service set identifiers BSSIDs have you received in the previous 10 seconds Other suitable requests may also be used. The request may further specify that respective signal power levels or RSSIs be provided that date and timestamps are required that a sequential order of the received beacon frames be indicated that the respectively used RF channels be indicated that RF data regarding RF signals sent by other or background entities be provided and so forth.

The computing device then prepares a response to the request . The response data may include data corresponding to each of the beacon frames such as the identifying data included within each such as MAC addresses respective identifier values or SSIDs respective signal strengths or RSSIs RF channel numbers respective date and timestamps and so forth defining an RF fingerprint . The response may also include an identifier for the computing device . The response may include other data or information as well in accordance with that specified in the request or in accordance with the RF signal protocol that is being used.

The communication module receives the response by way of RF signals and analyzes the content thereof. The analysis may include the communication module comparing the respective identifying data or other content within the RF fingerprint with those sent in the beacon frames . The comparison may be used to verify that most or all identifying data or other content are present. The comparison may include comparing the timestamps of the RF fingerprint with the actual times and date s that the beacon frames were sent and so forth. The communication module may further compare the signal strengths or RSSIs of the response with the actual RF powers used to transmit the respective beacon frames to determine a correspondence between a transmit sequence and a reception sequence. In some implementations the comparing may include a regular expression match in which one or more symbols or characters or sequences thereof are determined to be identical. Additionally the communication module may use the signal strengths to estimate a distance to the computing device sending the response .

The communication module may use other analytics predetermined heuristics or other techniques for determining a confidence value for the sender of the response . For purposes of this example it is assumed that the response includes essentially all correct identifying data corresponding to the data elements of the beacon frames and that the estimated proximity to the sender is consistent with a location within or near to the doctor s office waiting area.

In another instance the communication module may determine a ratio of a count of the identifying data elements in the response to a count of the identifying data elements in the respective beacon frames . That is determine a ratio of reported versus actual identifying data . The communication module may then determine a confidence value for the computing device . The confidence value may comprise a ratio of the respective counts a function of an intersection of the reported and actual identifying data sets or may be generated in accordance with another technique.

For example if the respective beacon frames include a total of eight identifiers and the corresponding response accurately includes six of them then a reported versus actual ratio of 6 8 or 0.75 may be calculated and used as the confidence value. In another example the identifiers may be weighted in accordance with their respective complexities or other criteria. The weights of those identifiers that are accurately reported in the response may then be summed or processed by way of some other function to determine a confidence value. In yet another example text strings are included in respective beacon frames such as ABC YX and DEFG as identifiers within the identifying data . For instance the identifier YX may correspond to the beacon frame that was sent at the relatively lowest RF power as a threshold for proximity testing the respondent computing device . Those identifiers that are correctly provided in a response are counted and the count is used to determine a confidence value. If the identifier YX is not included in the response then a particular relatively lesser confidence value may be assigned to the respondent computing device . Combinations of these or other techniques may also be used to assign a confidence value to a particular response .

The communications module thus determines that the sender of the response is likely the computing device and the computing device is trustworthy with respect to completing the present data transaction. The computing device acting on the confidence value and proximity just determined transmits the completed patient information form to the computing device .

In the illustrative example just described the computing device transmits identifying data which may include unique or randomly selected identifiers codes objects or other information by way of respective beacon frames directed to another computing device . The beacon frames are also sent at respectively different RF power levels. The computing device then tests the relative security and proximity of the intended recipient computing device by issuing a request thereto.

The computing device sends a response including an RF fingerprint comprised of some or all of the identifying data or other contents of the beacon frames their respective RF signal strengths and so on responsive to the request . The computing device then compares the RF fingerprint with the contents of the beacon frames compares reported signal strengths or RSSIs or their relative magnitudes with the actual RF powers used and their order of use and so on. The computing device then determines or quantifies a confidence value and proximity for the computing device . The computing device may then identify particular data to share or withhold identify cooperative efforts to participate in or avoid and so on in accordance with the confidence value and proximity determined as described above.

Additionally the confidence value proximity or both may be used in accordance with a policy or policies or predefined security hierarchies to identify particular data that may or may not be shared the cooperative operations that may or may not be performed and so on. As a non limiting example certain data may not be shared if a confidence value of less than 95 for the computing device is determined additional data may be added to the protected data set if a confidence value of less than 90 is determined and so on. Moreover particular data may not be shared or certain cooperative operations may not be performed if the estimated proximity of the computing device is greater than fifty feet and so on. Other security policies or strategies that are put into effect in accordance with respective confidence value or proximity values may also be used.

In another instance a user may access one or more RF fingerprints acquired at some time in the past such as three days ago while at a certain location like a coffee shop physical merchant retail location an airport or other place of interest. The respective identifiers SSIDs RF channels date and timestamps RSSIs or other identifying data or content within the RF fingerprints may be used to verify the presence of the corresponding computing device at that place and time. Thus RF fingerprint or other data acquired in response to a request may also serve to prove whereabouts of the computing device for a particular date and time that the user purchased a certain item at a particular location and so on.

In one or more examples respective beacon frames and responses may be communicated by direct RF signals that are not routed through a wireless access point . In one or more other examples beacon frames and responses may be communicated through a wireless access point as a wireless network operation. In still other examples beacon frames responses or any combination of these may be communicated to the server where they may be stored as security related data compared with prior responses or verifications and so forth. As such the server may play a passive or active role in the security process. Other operations may also be performed.

A computing device seeks to determine a confidence value for and estimate proximity of another computing device . The computing device may seek to perform this operation in response to a user command before sharing sensitive data with the computing device in accordance with other concerns. The communication module of the computing device may then assume an access point mode so as to perform respective functions of a wireless access point to a wireless network .

The computing device then sends a beacon frame at a first power level by way of RF signals to the computing device . The beacon frame may include any suitable content such as an identifier a nonce a randomly generated code or selected object other identifying data and so forth. A nonce may be an arbitrary number a word code a string an encoded image or sound or another object that is used on a limited basis within a beacon frame . In some cases a specific nonce is used only once within a single beacon frame and then never used again. In other cases a particular nonce is used a limited number of times and either never used again or used only for a period of time such as 6 months or a year. Nonces may be used as identifying data in other ways as well. The computing device thereafter sends a beacon frame at a second power level different than the first power level. In turn the beacon frame includes an identifier a nonce a random or pseudo random code or other identifying data that is unique or at least different than that sent in the beacon frame .

The computing device may send additional beacon frames to the computing device at respectively different power levels ending with an Nth beacon frame N . Each of the beacon frames N includes unique or distinct identifying data content such that no two beacon frames N are the same. The respective beacon frames may be sent at consistent or irregular intervals and so on. Thus respective timing intervals or interval differentials between the beacon frames may provide another characteristic that is subject to verification. One some or all of the beacon frames N are received by the computing device in accordance with the respective RF power levels used during transmission the distance or signal attenuating factors between the computing device and the computing device and so on.

The computing device then sends a request to the computing device including a query regarding the beacon frames N . The query may be formulated in various ways but the query may be structured such that the computing device cannot reconstruct any significant portion of the required response therefrom. That is the request is formatted to solicit a response from the computing device without providing any aid in that regard. In one instance the request may request that computing device provide data or information indicative of changes in identifying data or other content between beacon frames sent at some time in the past and those beacon frames N just transmitted. Other techniques that test a respondent computing device in accordance with content changes over time or differentials may also be used.

The computing device then generates a response that includes data or information regarding the beacon frames N or any respective portions or content of those beacon frames as received by the computing device . For purposes of a present example it is assumed that the computing device sent a total of three i.e. N 3 beacon frames and that the computing device successfully received the first and last of these and . Beacon frame which was transmitted at the relatively lowest used RF power was not received by the computing device .

Accordingly the response includes identifying data such as SSIDs or other identifiers random code or object data nonces signals strengths or RSSIs received date and timestamps and so on for the two received beacon frames . Therefore the response includes an RF fingerprint corresponding to the beacon frames and . The computing device then sends the response to the computing device by way of RF signals .

At block the computing device verifies the response and determines a confidence value for and proximity of the computing device . The communication module may process the response so that the reported data related to the beacon frames and is compared with the actual contents of those two beacon frames as transmitted. The communication module may also note that information corresponding to the beacon frame is totally lacking presumably due to remoteness of the computing device . Other analytical or heuristic techniques may also be used.

In the present example the communication module notes that the SSIDs codes nonces or other identifying data contents as reported for the beacon frames and are accurate and complete and that reported RSSIs are consistent with the actual RF powers used when accounting for attenuation and distance. The communication module then uses the reported RSSIs to estimate that the computing device is likely a moderate distance away perhaps within one hundred feet and thus is a moderate security risk. In other words the computing device is not likely located across a street or in an adjacent building. For instance the communication module may determine two respective differentials between the actual RF powers used to send the beacon frames and and the corresponding RSSI values included in the response . The communication module may then apply a predetermined RF signal loss model or function access a lookup table that correlates RF signal differentials with respective distances or use another technique to determine or estimate a distance between the computing device and the computing device . Other processes may also be used.

As depicted the communication module may then determine or quantify a confidence value of 75 estimated distance of 100 feet and presence verified thus defining confidence metrics for the computing device . For example proximity may be deemed as when the computing devices and are at an estimated distance of less than or equal to 100 feet. The confidence metrics are illustrative and non limiting as to types conclusions or quantifications of certainty or degrees of confidence that the computing device has in regard to the computing device . Other suitable quantitative scales or ranges units of measure degrees of confidence and so on may also be used.

At block the computing device uses the confidence metrics to identify various data or operations to be excluded from the computing device . In the present example the communication module identifies general contact information such as a user name or mailing address an e mail address and so on as data that may be shared with the computing device . In contrast the communication module identifies certain personal or financial information such the user date of birth or social security number SSN credit card numbers and so forth as data that is not shared with the computing device at least under the present circumstances. As depicted these respective pieces of information collectively define classified data .

The process and respective operations described above outline one of several ways in which a first computing device illustrated by a laptop computer may readily generate and transmit data packets such as beacon frames advertising frames or other distinct data sending events having unique or randomly generated contents within each. The packets may be transmitted at respectively different RF power levels using one or more channels and so on. Thus the first computing device transmits a number of beacon frames advertising frames or other data packets indicative of the presence of the first computing device and characterized by respective codes identifiers RF power levels RF channels or other aspects that provide a basis for verifying the presence of one or more receiving computing devices .

The first computing device then issues a request to a specific other computing device or generally to other computing devices within receiving range and evaluates any response or responses with respect to reported versus sent contents of the data packets signal strength levels and so forth. In this way the first computing device may determine confidence metrics for the responding computing device s and use these to identify what data to share or not share what cooperative operations to join or avoid and so forth.

The respective computing devices and include respective communication modules and . Each of the computing devices is configured to communicate with each other and the wireless access point by way of RF signals . In one instance the RF signals correspond to a Wi Fi protocol. In another instance the RF signals correspond to a Bluetooth protocol or a cellular communications protocol. Other RF signal formats or protocols may also be used. The computing devices define respective members or nodes of a wireless local area network WLAN wherein the wireless access point functions to couple the computing devices together maintain WLAN security using encrypted communications or other techniques and so on.

In some instances a user of a particular computing device may wish to validate with a quantified measure of certainty that the other computing devices coupled to the WLAN are actually located nearby and that one or more are not imposters that are remotely located. For example a user of the computing device may wish to verify that the computing devices and which appear to be local by virtue of their connection to the wireless access point are in fact physically nearby. In this way the user may be assured that data is not shared with or cooperative operations do not involve a computing device that is remote and possibly connected to the WLAN for malicious purposes. An illustrative verification operation including elements of the views is described hereinafter with references to and .

At block the computing device sends a first plurality of beacon frames at plural RF powers. For purposes of a present example the communication module assumes an access point mode and transmits four respective beacon frames using RF signals . Each of the beacon frames may include identifying data such as a MAC address a unique or arbitrarily selected identifier or SSID a nonce or other suitable identifiers or content. Each of the four beacon frames is also sent according to a distinct RF power level for instance 55 70 15 and 90 respectively of full RF broadcast power. Notably the beacon frames are transmitted directly and are not communicated through the wireless access point .

At block the computing device issues a first request . In the present example the computing device transmits a first request by RF signals without communicating through the wireless access point . The first request may call for each respondent to provide a response that includes identifying data regarding those beacon frames sent by the computing device . The first request may specify that RSSIs or analogous signal strength values are also required that date and timestamps should be included that the received sequence of the beacon frames should be indicated and so on. The first request may ask for other content or information within a response as well.

At block the computing device accesses RF data . In the present example the computing device reacts to the first request and accesses RF data . The RF data describes identifying data content or characteristics of one or more of the beacon frames in accordance with those that were received by the computing device . For instance the RF data may include the MAC addresses respective identifiers or SSIDs nonces codes or other content. The accessed RF data may also include respective RSSIs or other signal strength values date and timestamps and so forth.

At block the computing device accesses RF data . In the present example the computing device reacts to the first request by accessing RF data . The RF data describes identifying data content or characteristics of one or more of the beacon frames in accordance with those that were received by the computing device . Thus the RF data may include the MAC addresses respective identifiers or SSIDs nonces and so on. The accessed RF data may also include respective RSSIs or other signal strengths timestamps include one or more of clock time date and so forth and so on.

At block the computing device sends a response A to the first request . In the present example the computing device uses the accessed RF data to generate an RF fingerprint in accordance with the requirements of the first request . Thus the response A may include SSIDs nonces random codes or objects or other identifying data or contents of one or more of the beacon frames . The response A may also include date and timestamps corresponding to reception of one or more of the beacon frames RSSIs or other data in accordance with the first request . The response A is then sent from the computing device to the computing device by direct RF signals .

At block the computing device sends a response B to the first request . In the present example the computing device uses the accessed RF data to generate an RF fingerprint in accordance with the requirements of the first request . The response B may therefore include identifying data such as identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes or object and so on of one or more of the beacon frames as received by the computing device . The response B may also include date and timestamps RSSIs or other data in accordance with the first request . The response B is then sent from the computing device to the computing device by direct RF signals .

At block the computing device receives the responses A and B . In the present example the communication module receives the response A from the computing device and the response B from the computing device . The computing device thus has respective RF fingerprints RSSIs date and timestamps and so on as sent in answer to the first request .

At block the computing device verifies the responses A and B . In the present example the communication module processes the respective responses A and B comparing the reported versus sent identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes other identifying data and so on so as to determine if the respective respondent computing device has reported back regarding all some or none of the beacon frames .

For instance the response A may include accurate data for all but beacon frame which was transmitted at the lowest RF power of 15 . Accordingly the computing device may assign a confidence value of 80 to the computing device . In turn the computing device may estimate the proximity of the computing device at about forty feet. Thus confidence metrics have been determined for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device .

In another instance the response B may include accurate identifying data or other information for all of the beacon frames . The computing device may therefore determine a confidence value of 95 for the computing device and estimate the proximity of the computing device as within twenty feet. Thus confidence metrics have been determined for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device . Other operations analytics or heuristics may be used or other confidence metrics determined as well.

At block the computing device sends a second plurality of beacon frames at plural RF powers. For purposes of a present example the communication module assumes an access point mode and transmits three respective beacon frames and using RF signals . Each of the beacon frames may include identifying data such as a MAC address a unique or randomly selected identifier or SSID a nonce a random code or other distinguishing content. Each of the three beacon frames is also sent according to a distinct RF power level for instance 10 75 and 95 respectively. The beacon frames are transmitted directly and are not communicated through the wireless access point .

At block the computing device issues a second request . In the present example the computing device transmits a second request by RF signals that are not sent through the wireless access point . The second request may require each respondent computing device to provide a response that includes data regarding those beacon frames sent by the computing device . The second request may specify RSSIs or analogous signal strength values timestamps and so forth are required.

At block the computing device accesses RF data . In the present example the computing device reacts to the second request and accesses RF data which describes the identifying data content or characteristics of one or more of the beacon frames as respectively received. For instance the RF data may include the MAC addresses respective identifiers or SSIDs nonces and so on of one or more of the beacon frames . The accessed RF data may also include respective RSSIs or other signal strength values timestamps and so forth.

At block the computing device accesses RF data . In the present example the computing device reacts to the second request by accessing RF data . The RF data describes content or characteristics of one or more of the beacon frames . The RF data may include the MAC addresses respective SSIDs other identifying data and so on as included in the beacon frames and as respectively received by the computing device . The accessed RF data may also include respective RSSIs or other signal strengths timestamps and so forth.

At block the computing device sends a response C to the second request . In the present example the computing device uses the accessed RF data to generate an RF fingerprint per the requirements of the second request . Thus the response C may include identifying data such as identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes or objects or other content of one or more of the beacon frames as received by the computing device . The response C may also include date and timestamps RSSIs and so on in accordance with the second request . The response C is then sent from the computing device to the computing device by direct RF signals .

At block the computing device sends a response D to the second request . In the present example the computing device uses the accessed RF data to generate an RF fingerprint in accordance with the requirements of the second request . The response D may include identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes other identifying data and so on of one or more of the beacon frames . The response D may also include date and timestamps RSSIs and so on in accordance with the second request . The response D is then sent from the computing device to the computing device by direct RF signals .

At block the computing device receives the responses C and D . In the present example the communication module receives the response C from the computing device and the response D from the computing device . The computing device thus has the respective RF fingerprints RSSIs date and timestamps and so on as sent in answer to the second request .

At block the computing device verifies the responses C and D . In the present example the communication module processes the respective responses C and D comparing the reported versus sent identifying data such as identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes and so on so as to determine if the respective respondents reported back all or most of beacon frames contents.

In one instance the response C may include complete and accurate data regarding the beacon frames and but provides no data corresponding to the beacon frame that was sent at an RF power level of 10 . Accordingly the computing device may assign a confidence value of 83 to the computing device . The computing device may estimate the proximity of the computing device at about thirty eight feet. Thus confidence metrics have been determined for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device .

In another instance the response D may include full and accurate data for the beacon frames . The computing device may therefore determine a confidence value of 94 for the computing device and estimate the proximity of the computing device as within nineteen feet. Thus confidence metrics have been determined for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device . Other operations analytics or heuristics may be used or other confidence metrics determined as well.

At block the computing device sends a third plurality of beacon frames at plural RF powers. For purposes of a present example the communication module assumes an access point mode and transmits four respective beacon frames and using RF signals . Each of the beacon frames may include identifying data such as a MAC address a unique or randomly selected identifier or SSID a nonce and so forth. Each of the four beacon frames is also sent according to a distinct RF power level for instance 25 75 95 and 30 respectively. The beacon frames are transmitted directly and are not communicated through the wireless access point .

At block the computing device issues a third request . In the present example the computing device transmits the third request by RF signals which are not sent through the wireless access point . The third request may require each respondent to provide a response including identifying data or other information regarding those beacon frames sent by the computing device . The third request may specify RSSIs or analogous signal strength values timestamps and so forth as required.

At block the computing device accesses RF data . In the present example the computing device reacts to the third request and accesses RF data which describes the identifying data content or characteristics of one or more of the beacon frames as they were respectively received. For instance the RF data may include the MAC addresses respective SSIDs nonces and so on of one or more of the beacon frames . The accessed RF data may also include respective RSSIs or other signal strength values timestamps and so forth.

At block the computing device accesses RF data . In the present example the computing device reacts to the third request by accessing RF data . The RF data describes content or characteristics of one or more of the beacon frames . The RF data may include the MAC addresses respective identifiers or SSIDs nonces or other identifying data and so on as included in the beacon frames and as respectively received by the computing device . The accessed RF data may also include respective RSSIs or other signal strengths timestamps and so on.

At block the computing device sends a response E to the third request . In the present example the computing device uses the accessed RF data to generate an RF fingerprint according to the requirements of the third request . Thus the response E may include identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes or objects or other content or identifying data of one or more of the beacon frames as received by the computing device . The response E may also include date and timestamps RSSIs and so on in accordance with the third request . The response E is then sent from the computing device to the computing device by direct RF signals .

At block the computing device sends a response F to the third request . In the present example the computing device uses the accessed RF data to generate an RF fingerprint in accordance with the requirements of the third request . The response F may include identifying data such as identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes and so on of one or more of the beacon frames . The response F may also include date and timestamps RSSIs and so on in accordance with the third request . The response F is then sent from the computing device to the computing device by direct RF signals .

At block the computing device receives the responses E and F . In the present example the communication module receives the response E from the computing device and the response F from the computing device . The computing device thus has the respective RF fingerprints RSSIs date and timestamps and so on as sent in answer to the third request .

At block the computing device verifies the responses E and F . In the present example the communication module processes the respective responses E and F comparing the reported versus sent identifying data such as respective identifiers or SSIDs nonces random codes and so on so as to determine if the respective respondent reported back on all some or none of the beacon frames .

For instance the response E may include complete and accurate data regarding all of the beacon frames . Accordingly the computing device may assign a confidence value of 95 to the computing device . The computing device may estimate the proximity of the computing device at about twenty one feet. Thus confidence metrics have been determined for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device .

In another instance the response F may include full and accurate data for the beacon frames . The computing device may therefore determine a confidence value of 97 for the computing device and estimate the proximity of the computing device as within eighteen feet. Thus confidence metrics have been determined for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device . Other operations analytics or heuristics may be used or other confidence metrics determined as well.

To summarize the foregoing illustration a 3 way verification process was performed using a total of eleven respective beacon frames and the issuance of three respective requests . The computing devices and each received two corresponding responses for a total of six responses . These responses were analyzed accordingly and confidence metrics for the other two computing devices were determined by each computing device .

Specifically the computing device determined respective confidence metrics of 80 and forty feet for the computing device and 95 and 20 feet for the computing device . In turn the computing device determined confidence metrics of 83 and thirty eight feet for the computing device and 94 and nineteen feet for the computing device . Finally the computing device determined confidence metrics of 95 and twenty one feet for the computing device and 97 and eighteen feet for the computing device .

Each of the computing devices may now use their respectively determined confidence metrics to identify classified data that may be shared or may not be shared with the other computing devices identify one or more cooperative operations that they may or may not perform involving the other computing devices and so forth. Additionally each of the computing devices may determine that the other two computing devices T and U are likely present within the same office room home commercial floor space or other area of significance. Thus each of the computing devices may independently conclude or infer that all three computing devices are members of the same group or network. Other conclusions or inferences may also be made.

In the illustrative process described above the computing devices perform respective operations in a sequential order in the interest of clarity. However other processes may be used wherein each computing device performs one or more functions simultaneously or concurrently with those of the other computing devices . For instance the computing devices and may access their respective RF data and and generate their responses A and B as independent operations that are performed in a simultaneous or partially simultaneous manner. Other simultaneous or contemporaneous operations may also be considered.

As depicted the computing device sends a beacon frame to the computing device . The beacon frame may include various identifying data information or other content. Illustrative beacon frame content may include one or more MAC addresses SSIDs other identifiers random codes or objects a nonce or nonces and so on. The beacon frame may include other suitable data or contents as well.

For instance each beacon frame sent by the computing device may include a randomly generated object in the form of a pixelated image. For example graphical objects may be generated at random or arbitrarily selected from a data structure of predefined graphical objects for inclusion in respective beacon frames . Each beacon frame may include a respective or unique identifier that is other than a numeric alphanumeric or symbolic string. Nonetheless identifiers in the form of words strings numerical or symbolic sequences and so on may also be used.

As also depicted the computing device sends a response to the computing device . The response may be sent in answer to a request . In some implementations the request may be omitted. For example the computing device may be configured to generate the response after receiving a previously specified beacon frame at a particular time upon detection of a particular SSID and so forth.

The response may include various data information an RF fingerprint or other content in accordance with the requirements or specifications of the corresponding request . Illustrative response content may include identifying data such as one or more MAC addresses SSIDs or other identifiers random codes or objects a nonce or nonces and so on in accordance with content of one or more beacon frames received by the computing device .

In one implementation the response may include the RSSI or other signal strength data timestamps and so forth. For example a set of the beacon frames may include the same identifying data but may be transmitted in a particular sequence during which particular beacon frames are transmitted at different power levels. Information indicative of these changes in output power level with respect to the RF signals transmitted comprises a transmission sequence. For example the transmission sequence may indicate particular beacon frames times intervals and so forth along with the RF output power levels used during transmission. In this implementation the response may include a reception sequence. The reception sequence is indicative of an order in which the beacon frames were received over time. In some implementations the reception sequence may include RSSI information or other signal strength data. The particular transmission sequence of different RF power outputs transmitted by the computing device may thus produce different received signal strengths at the receiving computing device which is expressed as the reception sequence in the response . The reception sequence may be used as the identifying data or may be used in conjunction with the identifying data .

The illustrative response content may also include background entity signal content corresponding for example to RF signals transmitted by a wireless access point such as a BSSID RF signals transmitted by a background entity and so on. As used in the present example background signals refer to RF signals that are not transmitted by the computing device and may be recent historical and so on.

Such background RF signals or may be of interest if the computing device passively monitors one or more wireless channels and then sends a request to the computing device regarding content signal strengths SSIDs BSSIDs timing or other characteristics of RF signals that were detected during a specific time period. Thus respective RF fingerprints may include data or values corresponding to background signal sources as well. Such background RF signal or data may also serve to demonstrate that a certain computing device was present at a particular place and time.

For instance the computing device may receive RF signals from one or more wireless channels or bands as used for Wi Fi or Bluetooth communication. The computing device may then store RF data indicative of content received in the RF signals or corresponding RSSIs or other signal strength values timestamps and so on. The computing device may then include such RF data or portions thereof in the response in accordance with the specifications of the request .

In another instance respective requests may correspond to or call for data or information regarding beacon frames sent at some time in the past as a way of detecting and excluding more recent eavesdroppers or other remote potentially malicious respondents. For example a request may be issued calling for respondents to report on beacon frames that were transmitted two days ago. In another example a request may require data corresponding to background RF signals or received one hour prior to the present time and those detected in the last one minute. Other historical request strategies may also be used.

In yet another instance the response may also include a digital signature or other identification corresponding to the computing device . Additionally some or all of the response may be encrypted in accordance with a scheme specified in the request or as previously established between the respective computing devices and . Moreover the beacon frames the corresponding response or both may be formatted or constructed using a hash based message authentication code HMAC based on the nonce as a further measure of security between the respective computing devices and . Other cryptographic or security related techniques may also be used. In some implementations the nonce values included in the beacon frames may be used during operation of these cryptographic or security related techniques.

The computing device may include one or more input output I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the computing device to communicate with various other computing devices the wireless access point the server web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may include protocols such as inter integrated circuit I2C serial peripheral interface bus SPI Universal Serial Bus USB as promulgated by the USB Implementers Forum RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so on. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the computing device or the I O devices may be externally placed.

The computing device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other computing devices web based resources servers routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including personal area networks PANs local area networks LANs wireless local area networks WLANs wide area networks WANs and so forth.

The communication interfaces may also include a radio frequency RF circuit such as a wireless communication interface configured to communicate RF signals in accordance with Wi Fi Bluetooth a proprietary or military battlefield protocol or in accordance with other protocols. The RF circuit may also be configured to receive or listen for wireless signal traffic on various bands or channels measure sensed wireless signal strength values or perform other functions.

The computing device may also include one or more batteries for providing electrical power during normal operations. The battery or batteries may be rechargeable or disposable in nature. The computing device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing device .

The computing device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the computing device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces application programming interfaces textual graphic or audible instructions or assistance to the user and so forth. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may also include the communication module as described elsewhere herein. The memory may further store one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular or satellite communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet receiver ports or resources for wired communications and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other computing devices or other devices including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store respective confidence metrics corresponding to one or more other computing devices . Such confidence metrics are described and illustrated elsewhere herein. The datastore may also store classified data as identified in accordance with the respective confidence metrics . Thus computing device may have numerous data tables or structures defining what data or operations to share or not share with other respective computing devices . The classified data is as described and illustrated elsewhere herein. The datastore may also store RF data including respective beacon frame contents measured values such as RSSIs date and timestamps identifiers or SSIDs contents or data that are acquired during passive monitoring of RF signals on one or more wireless channels and so forth.

The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include computing device identification data such as a serial number or manufacturer an associated user name or identity and so forth. The other data may also include predefined SSIDs nonces or other objects for use in generating and sending respective beacon frames . The other data may further include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Accordingly any particular computing device may be resourced and configured to act in accordance with a configuration mode an access point mode a station mode or two or more of these modes contemporaneously. The computing device may also be configured to send beacon frames in accordance with various regular or irregular rates so as to request another computing device with respect to its transmission timing or in accordance with other goals or objectives.

The server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the server to communicate with various computing devices other servers computing apparatus or systems web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more displays audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the server or I O devices may be externally placed.

The server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other servers various computing devices web based resources routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including LANs WLANs WANs and so forth. The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

The server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more non transitory CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces. The user interface module may also provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a data encrypting or decrypting application a data structure generation or management application a web browsing application a portable document generating or viewing application an application for generating one or more web pages and so on.

The memory may also store the communication module or suitable variant thereof as described elsewhere herein. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet receiver secured data handling or encryption decryption resources resources supporting Bluetooth or Wi Fi wireless signaling protocols and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code one or more data tables or another data structure or structures to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other servers or computing devices network attached storage apparatuses and so forth.

The datastore may store respective confidence metrics as received from one or more computing devices . For instance the server may function as backup storage for such confidence metrics or may solicit confidence metrics from various computing devices for analytical or security purposes. The datastore may also store wireless network data including data identifying or describing one or more wireless local area networks . The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include identification data such as serial numbers or identifications for various computing devices a name or identity for a user or other data or encoded values. The other data may also include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Block sends plural beacon frames from a first device to a second device. For purposes of a present example the communication module of the computing device composes and sends three beacon frames each having some data content such as illustrative content that is different from the others. The respective beacon frame contents may include identifying data such as distinct SSIDs words numerical values nonces randomly generated or selected codes or data and so forth. The beacon frames may also include some data or content in common such as a MAC address or other information. Each of the three beacon frames is sent at a respective RF power level for instance 20 70 and 50 of full power respectively forming a transmission sequence. In some situations the combination of contents and RF power levels may be unique. For example SSID ABCD may be used with the RF power level of 20 while SSID EFGH is used with the RF power level of 70 and so forth. The three beacon frames or some fraction thereof are received by a computing device .

Beacon frames may include information that identifies a network or its operating parameters identifying data such as codes nonces and so on. Information included within a beacon frame may include a timestamp a beacon interval or timing between consecutive frames and capability information regarding a corresponding apparatus or network . Other information may also be included. Additionally beacon frames may be characterized by the RF power at which they are broadcast the rate or interval at which beacon frames are sent and so forth.

Block issues a request from the first device to a second device. In the present example the computing device sends a request to the second device . The request may request that a respondent device recite any or all identifying data such as SSIDs identifiers nonces and so forth that were received in the three previously sent beacon frames . The request may also request that particular timestamps regarding the beacon frames also be provided RSSIs or their analog and so forth. The request may request other data or information for use in validating the response .

In some implementations the request may be omitted. For example the second device may be configured to detect the beacon frames and respond such as described next with regard to block .

Block sends a response including received portions of the beacon frames from the second device to the first device. In the present example the computing device accesses data or information regarding the three beacon frames as well as any other data requested in the request and prepares a response . The response may include an RF fingerprint including identifying data date and timestamp values RSSIs or other signal strength values and so forth.

For instance the computing device may have most of the identifying data or other content for the three beacon frames having missed only a nonce and an SSID that were part of the beacon frame that was sent at 20 RF power. Thus the two beacon frames that were sent at 70 and 50 RF power respectively were completely received by the computing device . The corresponding response is then sent at 100 RF power from the computing device to the computing device .

Block verifies the response at the first device. In the present example the communication module of the computing device processes the response received from the computing device . For instance the identifiers SSIDs nonces and other identifying data content of the response are compared with those actually sent in the respective beacon frames noting that the SSID and the nonce of the lowest power beacon frame were not included. The respective RSSIs date and timestamps and other content of the response are also compared with the actual beacon frame RF power levels the actual transmit times and so on. The computing device may use other comparisons analyses heuristics or other procedures during the verification of the response . For example the transmission sequence may be compared with the reception sequence.

Block determines a confidence value for the second device. In the present example the communication module of the computing device uses the results of the verification at block above to determine a confidence value of 85 for the computing device . As such the computing device may identify particular data for sharing or withholding from the computing device specific cooperative operations that it is willing to perform or avoid regarding the computing device and so on based on the determined confidence value of 85 . Other future decisions or operations may also depend upon the confidence value of the computing device . A threshold value may be used to specify a minimum confidence value suitable for the use in determining proximity. For example the threshold value may indicate that the confidence value must be greater than or equal to 80 to determine proximity.

Block determines proximity of the second device. In the present example the communication module uses the results of the verification at block to determine proximity of the computing device relative to the computing device . In particular the communication module may evaluate the RSSIs reported in the response in view of the RF power levels of 20 70 and 50 used to send the respective beacon frames . The communication module may use various analytical techniques heuristics models tolerance values estimates of RF signal attenuation for various operating conditions and so forth to evaluate the RSSIs. Thus the communication module may be configured to adjust for RF signal attenuation reflections or other factors using respective compensation values or tolerances while determining a proximity to another computing device . Here the communication module determines an estimated proximity of sixty feet for the computing device . The confidence value of 85 which exceeds the threshold value of 80 and the estimated proximity of sixty feet collectively define confidence metrics for the computing device from the perspective of the computing device .

Block sends beacon frames from a first device to a second device and a third device. For purposes of a present example a computing device transmits four respective beacon frames at respectively different RF power levels. Each of the four beacon frames also includes at least one identifier SSID nonce random code or other identifying data or other content that is different than that sent in the other three beacon frames . Thus the four beacon frames have mutually distinct contents. The four beacon frames are sent to a computing device and a computing device wherein the three respective computing devices are members of a wireless LAN .

In another instance two or more beacon frames may be sent that have identical identifying contents. In yet another instance two or more beacon frames may be sent at the same RF power level. Other combinations of content identifiers transmission power levels or other parameters may be used in the interest of comprehensively testing the veracity of another computing device .

Block issues a first request from the first device to the second and third devices. In the present example the computing device transmits a first request to the computing device and computing device calling for respective responses that describe the four beacon frames just sent. The first request may specify some or all of the content types to be reported request date and timestamps corresponding to reception of the beacon frames request respective signal strength indicators and so forth. The first request may specify request or require other data or information as well.

Block sends respective responses from the second and third devices to the first device. In the present example the computing device may prepare a response A in accordance with the beacon frames content received thereby from computing device . In turn the computing device may prepare a response B as well. The two respective responses may include identifying data such as respective SSIDs nonces random codes RSSIs date and timestamps and other information in accordance with the specifications of the first request . The responses A and B are then sent to and received by the computing device where corresponding data is stored for later analysis.

Block sends beacon frames from the second device to the first and third devices. In the present example the computing device transmits four respective beacon frames at respectively different RF power levels. Each of the four beacon frames includes distinct identifying data such as an SSID a nonce and so forth that is different than the content sent in the other three beacon frames . Thus the four beacon frames are mutually distinct. The four beacon frames are sent to the computing device and computing device .

Block issues a second request from the second device to the first and third devices. In the present example the computing device transmits a second request to the computing device and computing device calling for respective responses that describe the beacon frames just sent. The second request may specify particular content types to be reported request date and timestamps request signal strength indicators and so forth. The second request may call for other data or information as well.

Block sends respective responses from the first and third devices to the second device. In the present example the computing device may prepare a response C in accordance with the beacon frames content received thereby from computing device . Similarly the computing device may prepare a response D as well. The two respective responses may include SSIDs nonces random codes RSSIs date and timestamps and other identifying data or information in accordance with the requirements of the second request . The responses C and D are then sent to and received by the computing device where corresponding data is stored for later analysis.

Block sends beacon frames from the third device to the first and second devices. In the present example the computing device transmits five respective beacon frames at five mutually different RF power levels. Each of the five beacon frames includes distinct identifying data such as an SSID or other identifier a random code or nonce and so forth which is different than the content sent in the other four beacon frames . Thus the five beacon frames are mutually distinct. The five beacon frames are transmitted to the computing device and a computing device .

Block issues a third request from the third device to the first and second devices. In the present example the computing device transmits a third request to the computing device and computing device calling for respective responses that describe the five beacon frames just sent. The third request may specify content types to be reported request date and timestamps request RSSIs or other signal strength indicators and so forth. The third request may also call for other data or information.

Block sends respective responses from the first and second devices to the third device. In the present example the computing device may prepare a response E in accordance with the beacon frames content received thereby from the computing device . Similarly the computing device may prepare a response F . The two respective responses may include respective SSIDs nonces random codes other identifying data RSSIs date and timestamps and other information in accordance with the requirements of the third request . The responses E and F are then sent to and received by the computing device where corresponding data is stored for later analysis.

Block verifies the responses at the respective devices. In the present example the computing device analyzes the respective responses A and B in view of the actual contents of the four beacon frames sent at block above. Reported versus actual data comparisons heuristics or other analytical techniques may be used. For illustration purposes the computing device determines a confidence value of 91 and proximity of twenty four feet for the computing device and a confidence value of 86 and proximity of thirty seven feet for the computing device . These confidence values and proximities define two respective sets of confidence metrics from the perspective of the computing device .

In turn the computing device analyzes the respective responses C and D in view of the actual contents of the four beacon frames sent at block above. For illustration purposes the computing device determines a confidence value of 93 and proximity of twenty four feet for the computing device and a confidence value of 95 and proximity of eighteen feet for the computing device . These confidence values and proximities define two respective sets of confidence metrics from the perspective of the computing device .

Finally the computing device analyzes the respective responses E and F in view of the actual contents of the five beacon frames sent at block above. For illustration purposes the computing device determines a confidence value of 80 and proximity of thirty nine feet for the computing device and a confidence value of 93 and proximity of eighteen feet for the computing device . These confidence values and proximities define two respective sets of confidence metrics from the perspective of the computing device . Thus the three way request issued among the computing devices results in the determination of six respective sets of confidence metrics .

Block communicates results of the respective verifications between the first second and third devices. In the present example respective computing devices may exchange information or data regarding the verifications that each has performed above. For instance each computing device may share the confidence metrics it just determined with the corresponding two other computing devices . In another instance each computing device may communicate specific data types or operations that will or will not be shared or performed with the other computing devices.

Block verifies the presence of the first second or third devices within an area of interest. In the present example the respective computing devices and may independently verify that the other two computing devices are present within the same room home office area or other area or interest. Such presence verification information may be shared between the computing devices and as well. Other presence verification related operations may also be performed.

In yet another instance one or more of the computing devices will not communicate any information regarding the verifications performed by it and will simply share or decline data or cooperation on a case by case base without advance notice. Other communications between the computing devices may also be performed.

Block monitors RF signals at first and second devices. For purposes of a present example the computing devices and may respectively receive RF signals on a particular wireless channel such as being sent by a wireless access point one or more other computing devices or one or more various background entities . The contents data RSSIs any beacon frame contents date and timestamps channel designation and so forth as respectively received may be stored as RF data at the computing devices . Thus the computing device and may maintain a respective data structure or log of data or information corresponding to RF signals detected by but not sent from the respective computing device . . . P .

Block issues a request to the second device for RF data for a specified date and time. In the present example the computing device sends a request calling for information or data regarding any RF signals that the computing device has received on a specific wireless channel during the past five seconds. For illustration purposes the computing device received three distinct RF signals or packets at measured signals strengths of 12 45 and 77 respectively during the specified time span and has stored the corresponding RF data . Thus the request is triggered by the three RF signals and is intended to determine what if any of those RF signals were also received by the computing device .

Alternatively RF signals in a local environment or of other interest may include a common prefix or identifier. For instance the request may call for information or data regarding the four most recent RF signals that the computing device has received on a specified channel or which include the particular prefix or identifier. In another example the request may also require data regarding RF signals that were received by the computing device during a time span of two seconds extending back from the time that the request is received. In yet another example the request may call for data regarding RF signals received by the computing device during a time span in accordance with a predetermined time standard or designated time zone. Other requests having other specifications or requirements may also be used.

Block accesses the RF data at the second device and generates a response . In the present example the computing device responds to the request and accesses RF data stored therein. For illustration purposes the computing device received two of the three RF signals corresponding to the specified time span and wireless channel. Specifically the two RF signals having signal strengths of 12 and 77 as measured by the computing device were also detected by the computing device . Thus the computing device generates a response including data SSIDs RSSIs codes or data or other content accordingly.

Block sends the response from the second device to the first device. In the present example the computing device sends the response as prepared at block to the computing device by way of RF signals . Thus the computing device has sent information and data corresponding to two received RF signals .

Block compares the RF data stored at the first device with the response from the second device. In the present example the computing device accesses RF data stored therein corresponding to the three RF signals received during the time span and on the wireless channel specified in request . The computing device then compares this RF data including SSIDs RSSIs codes or data or other received content with corresponding portions of the response from the computing device . For illustration purposes the computing device notes that the response includes data and information regarding two of the three received RF signals but also notes that the RF signal having the relatively lowest measured signal strength of 12 is among the reported data. The computing device may use various analytical techniques compensate or adjust for RF signal attenuation or reflections apply respective heuristics and so forth during the comparison.

Block determines using the comparison a confidence value and proximity of the second device. In the present example the computing device may then use the results of the comparison to generate confidence metrics corresponding to the computing device . For instance a confidence value of 84 and an estimated proximity of thirty two feet may be determined. The computing device may also make other inferences or determinations according to the response data or information missing therefrom.

For instance the computing device may also estimate a direction or location of the computing device in accordance with the lack of information corresponding to the RF signal measured at 45 signal strength. The computing device may be located in the same general direction as the respective background entities emitting the 12 and 77 signal strength RF signals but may be located in the opposite direction or behind an attenuating object with respect to the background entity emitting the 45 signal strength RF signal . Other analytical reasoning or inferences may also be used.

Block performs one or more actions at the first device according to the confidence value or proximity and one or more policies. In the present example the computing device may use the confidence value of 84 and estimated proximity of thirty two feet in accordance with one or more security policies so as to identify particular data that it is willing to share or will withhold from the computing device . Such data collectively defines classified data . The computing device may also identify one or more shared or cooperative operations that it is willing to perform or will avoid with respect to the computing device in accordance with respective security policies. Data or information corresponding to these or other security related determinations or the underlying security policies may be communicated to the computing device . Other operations may also be performed.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

