---

title: Real-time, customized embedding of specific content into local webserver pages
abstract: In a particular embodiment, a method includes receiving, at a server from a computing device coupled to a first network, a request to access a first web page via a second network. The method includes redirecting the computing device to a second web page in response to a determination that the computing device is not permitted access to the second network. The method further includes providing, to the computing device, baseline content and additional content associated with the second web page. The additional content is retrieved from a content management server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344479&OS=09344479&RS=09344479
owner: Wayport, Inc.
number: 09344479
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140421
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 587 filed Aug. 8 2007 and entitled REAL TIME CUSTOMIZED EMBEDDING OF SPECIFIC CONTENT INTO LOCAL WEBSERVER PAGES which claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 821 791 filed on Aug. 8 2006 and entitled AUTOMATED ACQUISITION AND MAINTENANCE OF FILES COMPRISING HANDLER OF 404 NOT FOUND ERROR CONDITIONS ENCOUNTERED BY A WEBSERVER each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to the subject matter of commonly assigned patent application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 579 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 078 673 filed Aug. 8 2007 and entitled AUTOMATED ACQUISITION AND MAINTENANCE OF WEB SERVABLE CONTENT VIA ENHANCED 404 NOT FOUND HANDLER which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The illustrative embodiment of the present invention relates generally to data communication networks and in particular to web servers within data communications networks. Still more particularly the present invention relates to providing web servable content within data communications networks.

With the exponential growth in the use of the Internet an increasing number of businesses now advertise and or provide business over the Internet. These businesses typically provide web pages with content hosted on servers that are accessible once a connection the Internet is made. Also as Internet users become more and more mobile with the proliferation of mobile computers and web access over portable personal devices such as cell phones PDAs and the like one area of growth has been the demand for remote access to the Internet via access points made available in public and or private locations.

One area of development has been the implementation of server networks accessible via access points in the form of either wireless access points implementing the 802.11 Wireless Ethernet protocol WiFi or hardwired Ethernet connection ports in public and or private locations i.e. away from a home or office base . These access points enable a mobile user with a personal computing device PCD to sign in and access information that may be located on a server of the server network or on the Internet. Each such access via the server network is routed through one of the web servers which is often connected to the Internet. Also the web servers are frequently connected to a centralized administrative and or content CAC server that operates as a control and or monitoring point for the server network.

Companies that provide these access points such as Wayport Inc. a Texas corporation have provided thousands of such access points through the United States and Canada. Each of these access points are linked to a specific one or more of many hundreds and potentially thousands of content servers web servers interconnected in a server network. The web servers are typically loaded with web servable content by service provider technical personnel or business partners or customers who desire specific content on specific ones of the web servers. This content is stored in a storage facility such as a filesystem associated with the particular web server. When a user initiates a sign on procedure at the web server the user is provided with an initial set of one or more login pages e.g. Welcome or information pages .

As more people utilize local access points to access the greater Internet the ability of the access point provider or owner or developer to target potential customers clients with information at specific access points has become a valuable business development expansion tool.

Businesses utilizing these access points to provide their customers with access to the greater Internet typically desire the ability to customize the access pages through which a user of a publicly accessible Internet Access Service must navigate before being allowed access to the greater Internet. The user s status is that of a captive audience until the user has completed the connection process. The presence of this captive audience makes the available space on these access pages a comparatively valuable piece of screen estate. And many content providers have an interest in sub letting this screen estate in order to place thereon the content provider s own advertisement or other informational content.

Thus many businesses turn to the providers of these access points seeking to exploit the use of these network access points by providing advertising content of the business for display on the login sign in pages of the access points Welcome pages . This business model of displaying business specific information on the Welcome pages provided at the access points enables the business es to capitalize on the captive audience of users who connect to or attempt to access the access points perhaps to gain access to the Internet.

Additionally the owners and or operators of venues where these public access points are traditionally installed have increasingly endeavored to exert control over the content presented on these web pages. Among the desired control is control of the overall look feel and or branding of the access page. Also these owners and operators desire the level of control to provide granular customization along the lines of providing a specific messages to b specific users in for example c a specific meeting room for d a specific block of time.

A major impediment to providing such a customized service offering has always been the difficulty involved with installing the various files that a web page sources from its hosting server on individual localized web servers given the several thousand servers in a large sever network. This network may be controlled by a single equipment service provider manufacturer such as Wayport which provides administrative content and technical support. Conventional methods of distributing such content files involve the secure copying of followed by remote installation of a number of software packages to each server in the equipment service provider s server network. This individualized installation proves a daunting prospect particularly when any particular content item may only have been intended for display on perhaps a dozen of these several thousand servers and only for a limited time before the content desired to be provided at that location changes.

With all web servable content stored in packages that must undergo rigorous testing by both a the manufacturer distributor and b the many service partners and clients of the manufacturer distributor before the packages may be generally released the amount of managerial overhead required for any such deployment ultimately made such one off customizations a practical impossibility with conventional methods.

Disclosed is a method system and computer program product by which a web server dynamically provides an extensively customizable web interface on an access web page. The web server includes a processing device and a utility executing on the processing device which provides the following functions determining when a web page that has been programmed to display a standard baseline content has been assigned within a web page content profile one or more additional content dynamically retrieving the one or more additional content and generating the web page with the one or more additional content provided in place of or integrated within one or more sections of the baseline content.

The additional content is one of static content and dynamic content. When the utility detects an assignment of the additional content within the web page profile the utility checks a specific location within the filesystem for the additional content. When the additional content is not found at the specific location and the additional content is static content the utility automatically checks the temporary directory then checks the centralized administrative and or content CAC server for the additional static content. When the CAC server has a current copy of the content the CAC server transmits the copy to the web server assuming the CAC server copy is more recent than any existing copies at the web server . Once the CAC server returns valid static content in response to the requesting web server the utility generates the web page with the static content inserted in place of sections of the standard baseline content. Un supported content provided from the CAC server is discarded or ignored when generating the web page.

When the additional content is dynamic content and is not found within the filesystem the utility automatically requests the additional content from the CAC server. The CAC server retrieves and executes a dynamic file to generate usable dynamic content for insertion within the pre identified sections of the standard baseline content. When the dynamic content has been generated the CAC server forwards the content to the web server. If the dynamic content is an embedded content the content is inserted in or augmented to relevant portions sections of the standard baseline content either appending to prepending to or wholly replacing particular baseline items. If the dynamic content is one of a pre processing override content and a post processing override content the content is utilized in place of i.e. as a replacement to the entire baseline content.

All objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

This invention is described in a preferred embodiment in the following description with reference to the figures in which like numbers represent the same or similar elements.

Generally the illustrative and described embodiments provide a method system and computer program product for implementing Fully Customizable Welcome Pages FCWP for web servers in a distributed server network such as is illustrated in . The specific functional features are provided by one or more utilities that are executed by the example web server such as is illustrated by .

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. It should be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical architectural programmatic mechanical electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Within the descriptions of the figures similar elements are provided similar names and reference numerals as those of the previous figure s . Where a later figure utilizes the element in a different context or with different functionality the element is provided a different leading numeral representative of the figure number e.g. xx for for . The specific numerals assigned to the elements are provided solely to aid in the description and not meant to imply any limitations structural or functional on the invention.

It is understood that the use of specific component device and or parameter names are for example only and not meant to imply any limitations on the invention. The invention may thus be implemented with different nomenclature terminology utilized to describe the components devices parameters herein without limitation. Each term utilized herein is to be given its broadest interpretation given the context in which that term is utilized.

With reference now to the figures illustrates one embodiment of a distributed server network . Network comprises a network backbone or infrastructure to which is coupled centralized administrative and content CAC server referred to hereinafter as CAC server and a plurality of distributed web servers .

Network represents a distributed server system. The network infrastructure may comprise a wired network a wireless network or a combination of wired and wireless networks. For example the network infrastructure may be a standard wired Ethernet network which connects each of the webservers and by extension each of the wireless and wired access points together. Network infrastructure may also be a wireless network based on IEEE 802.11 or other wireless protocol. Network infrastructure is illustrated connected to Internet . It is appreciated that network infrastructure may form part of the Internet or may couple to other networks e.g. other local or wide area networks such as the Internet .

The network communication system may be geographic based. In other words the network communication system may provide information and or services to the user based at least partly on the known geographic location of the user e.g. as indicated by the access points or as indicated by geographic information e.g. GPS information provided from the PCD . Notably while the access points may be specifically located in particular businesses and specific locations the web servers are not necessarily local to that business and or locations and may be remote from the location of the access point.

As provided below CAC server is centralized in that CAC server is a single primary source of content data e.g. files graphics web pages and the like that may be pushed to or pulled or accessed by any one of web servers across network system . Administrative input and content is provided at CAC server and a record of which content are assigned to which sections on which pages via the welcome page profile may be stored on CAC server database .

CAC server receives administrative and content input and stores the various input within local or associated storage CAC server database of CAC server. As illustrated by the figure CAC server host two file types namely dynamic files and static files . More specific to the invention and as described in greater detail below three types of dynamic files are provided embedded content pre processing content and post processing content all separately utilized to provide dynamic content for a welcome page. Static files may also be welcome page content as described herein and certain static content may be embedded content which is stored at the webserver as described below with reference to .

As utilized herein embedded content refers to content that is provided inline within the standard output of the baseline page while override content refers to content which completely replaces the standard output of the baseline page. As will also be described in greater detail below embodiments of the present invention enables a single location input of content that may then be distributed in real time to specific webservers within network system when the content is required at that specific webserver .

Specific content may be provided within specific ones of the web server s file system in a somewhat customizable nature such that specific servable content at a first web server is different from servable content at a second web server. The below described embodiments provide methods by which customizable web servers are efficiently generated using CAC server with program functionality for customization on a granular level. As will be described in greater detail below embodiments of the present invention enables a single point of input for content that may then be distributed in real time to specific webservers within network system when the content is required at that specific webserver .

Webservers represent a distributed server system by which content is accessible within specific location via one or more access points . These locations may be geographic locations or business locations for example that may provide or require different content at the respective webservers . Three different locations are identified for example differentiated as locations A through C each of which has one or more web servers and one or more access points associated therewith.

Network system includes one or more access points and preferably a plurality of access points . At least a subset of the access points maybe wireless access points APs which communicate with a portable computing device PCD in a wireless fashion. Each wireless access point AP may have a wireless connector or transceiver e.g. an antenna and may operate according to various wireless standards such as wireless Ethernet IEEE 802.11 . One or more of the access points may also be wired access points which communicate with a portable computing device in a wired fashion. The access points APs may be widely distributed in various facilities such as airports mass transit stations shopping malls restaurants and other businesses such as business offices law firm offices retail stores hotels and the like.

Notably while the access points may be specifically located in particular businesses and specific locations the webservers are not necessarily local to that business and or locations and may be remote from that location of the access point. Each access point may comprise information used to identify or select a network provider for a particular user as well as related access information to enable the network provider to provide access. When in sufficiently close range to an access point or when the PCD is directly coupled to an access point in a wired fashion the PCD may access the network utilizing a particular network provider as discussed further below.

The portable computing device may be any one of various types of devices including a computer system such as a portable computer a personal digital assistant PDA an Internet appliance a communications device or other wired or wireless device. The PCD may include one or more wireless or wired communication devices utilized for communicating with a wired access point . Examples of these devices include a wireless Ethernet card paging logic RF communication logic a wired Ethernet card a modem a DSL device an ISDN device an ATM device a parallel or serial port bus interface or other type of communication device.

According to the described embodiments of the invention a user operating a portable computing device PCD may communicate with one of the access points to gain access to network services such as Internet access or to web servable content hosted at the web server .

One or more network providers or general content providers may each have an associated network server coupled directly to the network infrastructure and or a network server coupled via the Internet . These example servers host general content of that service provider which content is also available to PCDs connected to the servers via an AP . As used herein the term service provider or network provider is intended to include various types of service and information providers which may be connected directly or indirectly to the network infrastructure . Each service provider may include one or more servers configured programmed to provide various goods information and or services as appropriate for the service provider.

A user operating a portable computing device will typically connect to network system via subscription to one or more network providers. Examples of network providers include Wayport iBahn and AT T among others. When the PCD of a user communicates with an AP the respective network provider to which the user is subscribed is determined and the appropriate web server is connected to provide content to that PCD .

Also coupled to system bus are network interface controller NIC and access point controller APC . NIC enables server to connect to other devices e.g. CAC server of via a network e.g. network or Internet . Depending on implementation NIC may be a wireless device or wired connection device. APC provides the point of connectivity between server and one or more access points such as APs of via one of a wireless or wired connection.

Server also comprises other storage which is illustrated coupled to system bus . According to the described embodiments storage includes thereon a file system FS which hosts a plurality of files including Whole page baseline content or standard welcome page content and page layout styles that are utilized by web server to generate the standard welcome page to a PCD connected to server via access point . Storage and by illustration file system may be located remotely from server perhaps accessible via a network in other embodiments However the described embodiments provides for a local file system to simplify the description of the relevant functional features associated with the embodiments. According to the described embodiments page layout styles includes therein certain hooks that enable retrieval of content from another source other than the standard whole page baseline content . Notably in one alternate embodiment copies of the dynamic content may be housed within storage along with static content and temporary content. This embodiment assumes that the central administrator or local web server administrator has loaded the dynamic content on the particular web server allowing the welcome page application to locally retrieve dynamic content for execution on the local web server. Also with this embodiment the web server utility only accesses the CAC server for dynamic content when the dynamic content cannot be located within the web server s own filesystem.

As further illustrated storage also includes temporary storage which is a pseudo hardware construct. Temporary storage includes a directory and static web servable content. Specifically as illustrated temporary storage provides static content which is static content that may be included within the displayed welcome page when the page is generated.

Notably in one embodiment certain embedded content may be static content . As utilized herein static content refers to only those content elements HTML files binary graphics textual CSS documents etc that contain no programmatic logic and are allowed to be stored on the local webserver s filesystem via modified Handler s caching mechanism. Further embedded content refers to content that is included added within the standard content of the baseline page. Embedded content may be static in nature as in the case of an HTML file. Embedded content may result in the presentation and or caching of other static content by referencing graphics for example within the output. As primarily utilized herein embedded content is described as dynamic in nature in that the described embedded content uses programmatic logic to determine what if anything to return as includable content to the baseline page.

Included within memory is a page output buffer in which static and dynamic content that is to be provided within the generated welcome page is placed before processing by CPU . As illustrated page output buffer includes embedded content pre processing content and post processing content as example content that may be provided. As will become clear with the description of below these three content files may provided actual usable content in which case the specific content provided is utilized in generating the Welcome page. Other implementations may allow for use of one or more of the above content. Preferably use of pre processing content is exclusive of the use of post processing content.

In one embodiment the various content elements are retrieved downloaded from CAC server during a first access to the web server by a PCD at an access point. In another embodiment the contents are pushed to or pulled by the web server triggered by administrative personnel at the CAC server.

The specific content that is to be utilized to generate the Welcome page is retrieved and stored within list of valid content during processing of the initial PCD connection to the access point. During operation content from appropriate welcome page files and embedded content is automatically provided within page layout styles to provide a Welcome Page when access to the web server is initiated from one of access points and the welcome page is displayed on the PCD initiating the connection at the access point .

According to the described embodiments static content loaded onto server from CAC server is stored in temporary storage which enables the Welcome page s static content to be dynamically updated via a pull by the web server or a push by the CAC server to specific web servers serving pre identified access points using an identification ID associated with the access points and or web server. Dynamic content is provided to server from CAC server only when specified e.g. during pre programmed dates times or for use with specific access points from which the user connects and is placed within the page output buffer for generation of a customized welcome page in lieu of the standard default welcome page. The particular content is tagged with the ID access point and or web server and downloaded to the specified location for use only at that location. These features are described further below.

In addition to the above described hardware components of server several of the functional features of the invention are provided via software components i.e. functional program code or utility executing on CPU of server . Thus as illustrated located within memory are a number of other software components or utilities including a operating system which provides the Internet Protocol IP parameters for network connection and communication b web server protocols which enables data processing system to operate as a web server and communicate with CAC server over network c Welcome Page Content Customizing WPCC utility also referred to herein as Fully Customizable Welcome Page FCWP utility and which enables features described herein and d server content retrieval SCR utility which enables automatic content updates following receipt of a request for the servable content by implementing a Modified Not Found error response Handler to retrieve a requested file or content from CAC server rather than providing a Not Found or similar response. The latter utility and associated functional features are described in greater detail in the related application.

WPCC utility is a modified version of the standard welcome page application which enables redirection through the use of hooks etc. within the application processing to enable retrieval of customized content for display as a total replacement for the standard welcome page e.g. pre processing or post processing content or as an integrated but additional part of the standard welcome page e.g. embedded content .

As introduced above OS provides the various operational parameters to enable general operation of server as well as the IP and HTTP functionality required for network access and transfer of information over the various supported networks. OS in conjunction with web server protocols and WPCC utility enable the various processes by which a connection is established by a PCD to server via an AP and b authentication login and other functional features of the web server s welcome page generation processes and other general web server processing are enabled provided.

In implementation many of the novel processes supported by the above four software components are provided as a seamless operation via a single execution of code. Also some overlap may exist in the functionality of WPCC utility and SCR utility . For simplicity in describing the invention and as an alternate embodiment the collective body of code that performs the various functions described herein and or the described features of the illustrative embodiments is referred to hereinafter as WPCC utility. References to WPCC utility or execution thereof thus cover the entire range of functions provided by the illustrative embodiments which occur at the web server . As described herein WPCC utility is downloaded to all web servers as an upgrade to server functionality and WPCC utility enables standard welcome page processing to be modified such that a redirection process occurs to select the appropriate welcome page content.

The WPCC utility executes on CPU and provides a series of functional processes which are illustrated and described below within the description of the flowcharts. Generally WPCC utility provides the method functions of 1 force redirection of the welcome page generation process via hooks within the welcome page layout code for example to check for other content to include in the welcome page 2 retrieving one or more of embedded content and or pre processing or post processing content for use within or as the welcome page and 3 automatically requesting updates or retrieval of content from the CAC server which provides a pre determined specific content and layout for that particular web server which may be unique to that server relative to other servers in the server network. Other functions are also supported as described within the flow chart.

Generally the illustrative embodiments provide a method system and computer program product by which a web server dynamically provides an extensively customizable web interface on an access page. Specific content is distributed from the CAC server to only a desired web server. In one embodiment content distribution occurs in response to a trigger from the web server. A utility is provided at each web server via global downloaded from the content server which utility executes to enable a pull from the web server of specific content that is identifiable via a location identifier LID tagged to the content. The utility thus provides the ability to customize web page content on remote servers without having to individually and manually update each server in the large server network. Further the utility enables this customization to be completed at the time the content is formally incorporated into the server equipment manufacturer s core software libraries.

According to the one embodiment the CAC server is modified to provide CAC server level support for WPCC utility functions or requests of the web servers. Thus in one embodiment CAC server includes FCWP master utility which executes on the CAC server s processor to provide certain functions and responses to certain requests received from connected web servers . Among these functions are 1 granularly assigning welcome page content and page layout styles e.g. embedded content pre processing content and post processing content for each set of web servers requiring different welcome pages 2 tagging the various welcome page content with a unique identifier associating the content to its respective set of web servers or access points 3 enabling a push of welcome page content to each set of web servers identified to receive a specific content at a specific time where the received content is automatically stored within the temporary directory of the respective web servers and 4 automatically forwarding assigned updated versions of welcome page content to specific requesting web servers in response to a pre defined request from the web server.

In one embodiment the FCWP master utility may also directly service a welcome page to the PCD initiating access to the web server when the web server does not have a copy of the welcome page in either the file system or temporary storage. In one implementation of this embodiment an automatic download of the welcome page to the web server is initiated while the CAC server continues to service the PCD connection until download is completed. CAC server may also provide additional functionality as described herein and or within the related patent application.

The FC welcome pages are capable of rendering arbitrary content on any page throughout the application up to and including total override of design and program function without requiring package distribution to field web servers or any machine other than one central home server i.e. CAC server .

In one embodiment implementation of the invention utilizes only the legacy Page Ad Map architecture established at the time of the initial conversion of the Welcome Page application from PERL based CGIs to TCL based dynamic web pages. No modifications to any database object central server process or web server based functionality other than the Welcome Page application itself is required before these capabilities may be utilized.

The process for developing these FC welcome pages involve the following a re architecture of underlying code to unify all layout routines and separate content from presentation page layout styles and b extension of legacy content management capabilities to remove restrictions and allow automated distribution of related files. In completing the re architecture all layout routines are conformed to one application programming interface API e.g. button is a button regardless of how or when or where or why rendered. Also static files are separated from dynamic and or compiled and or interpreted content to minimize the risk inherent to field upgrades upgrades occurring at the devices themselves and allow automated distribution. Finally Cascading Style Sheets are applied to all output allowing the same underlying HTML to be presented in any number of different styles e.g. in either a Wayport or a McDonald s look feel branding and theme .

In completing the extension of the legacy content management capabilities the following considerations are made 

 1 Content may be tied via database records for each welcome page profile to both universal hooks embedded into every page automatically and keyed on unique page identifiers as well as manually established hooks specified by the programmer in any given web page that is dynamically generated by a web server. This process is illustrated by the flowchart of described below and

 2 Every page has a PRE Processing Override and a POST Processing Override hook available for assignment of content that will terminate processing immediately after rendering allowing any page to be fully replaced at any time also illustrated by and

 3 A modified enhanced 404 Not Found handler is established inside the AolServer that upon invocation will automatically check the local filesystem temporary directories and or remote web servers i.e. CAC server for any missing content or file saving local copies of the content file when found and where applicable. This final process is described in the related application which has been incorporated herein by reference.

Notably while the customization capability described herein focuses that description on providing customizable welcome pages this customization capability is not limited to only the welcome pages and may be applied to any page hosted by the service provider or web server with which a user or PCD interacts prior to completing a connection process and being given access on to the open Internet.

Thus the functionality described herein is applicable to other pages other than the first page that the user sees or interacts with as a result of the initial redirection process. Specifically any page that the user encounters can be structured to enable custom content presented inline with or a replacement page presented in place of the standard page. For example the features may be applied to pages such as the input your credit card page the input your username and password page the help page the thank you you are now connected page and others.

Turning now to the flow charts illustrated as is a flowchart illustrating the method by which the processes of the invention are implemented according to one embodiment. Specifically while the invention may be implemented without an explicit new utility controlling the processes the processes illustrated by are assumed to be completed by WPCC utility executing on the web server and providing the functionality of the welcome page application in response to detection of a connection by a PCD at an access point according to the illustrated embodiments. Although the method illustrated in may be described with reference to components shown in it should be understood that this is merely for convenience and alternative components and or configurations thereof can be employed when implementing the method.

The method begins with at block at which the user device PCD connected to the access point is redirected to the welcome page application functions of WPCC utility. Prior to the redirection the utility implements a forced first page process to check whether there is an existing connection event with the user device PCD accessing the web server via the access point. As with standard operation if the user s PCD already has an existing connection the PCD is connected to the background network without having to interact with the welcome page. When the user s PCD does not have an existing connection or the previously existing connection has expired the user s PCD is redirected to the welcome page application. The WPCC utility which provides a welcome page content profile initially accesses a known location to load the default dynamic welcome page file e.g. index.html or index.adp . The dynamic welcome page file is a baseline file which renders the standard baseline welcome page when loaded into the PCD s browser. However as provided by the described embodiments the welcome page content profile may also assign embedded and or override content to the welcome page which content enhances modifies or replaces the baseline welcome page provided by the dynamic welcome page file.

WPCC utility by analyzing welcome page content profile determines at block whether pre processing override content is assigned for the welcome page. If the pre processing override content is not assigned the utility initializes the whole page baseline content as shown at block . When the pre processing override content is assigned the utility acquires the pre processing override content at block . This content may be acquired directly from the CAC server in one embodiment. Then at decision block the utility determines whether the pre processing override content was successfully generated. If the pre processing override content was not successfully generated the process proceeds to block at which the utility initializes the whole page baseline content of the standard welcome page as stated above.

With the whole page baseline content initialized a next decision is made at block whether there is embedded content assigned to the current page. If there is no embedded content assigned to the current page the WPCC utility generates the whole page output without any embedded content as shown at block . However if there is embedded content assigned to the current page then the utility acquires the embedded content for inclusion in the welcome page as shown at block . Then another decision is made at block whether the embedded content was successfully generated. If the embedded content was not successfully generated as determined at block the embedded content is ignored and not utilized as shown at block and the standard whole page output is generated without embedded content.

Continuing with if as determined at block the embedded content was successfully generated the WPCC utility adds the embedded content to the list of valid content items or page output buffer for inclusion in the welcome page as shown at block . The utility also adds all items from the list of valid content to the Whole Page content at block . Finally the utility generates the whole page output at block including all embedded content from the list of valid content.

Returning to block when the pre processing override content is successfully generated the pre processing override content is set as the pre processing whole page output at block . The process then proceeds to block at which the pre processing whole page output is sent to the client browser for display thereon before the process ends at termination block .

Following generation of the whole page output at block or a decision is made at block whether there is post processing override content assigned for that page as opposed to pre processing assignment described above . When there is no post processing override content assigned the whole page output from block is sent to the client browser for display thereon as shown at block . Then the process ends at termination block .

Returning to decision block if there is post processing override content assigned then the utility acquires the post processing override content as shown at block . This post processing content may be acquired from CAC server in one embodiment. A decision is then made at block whether the post processing override content was successfully generated and if not the presence of the override content is ignored at block . However when the post processing override content is successfully generated the utility sets the post processing override content as the whole page output at block . Then the process proceeds to block at which the post processing whole page output is sent to the client browser before the process ends at termination block .

In the flow charts above one or more of the methods are embodied in a computer readable medium containing computer readable code such that a series of steps are performed when the computer readable code is executed on a computing device. In some implementations certain steps of the methods are combined performed simultaneously or in a different order or perhaps omitted without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. Thus while the methods steps are described and illustrated in a particular sequence use of a specific sequence of steps is not meant to imply any limitations on the invention. Changes may be made with regards to the sequence of steps without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Use of a particular sequence is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the appended claims.

According to the described embodiments the content included within the welcome page represents the actual HTML hypertext markup language source code generated by the individual content elements which is either included within the standard baseline content embedded or utilized to replace the entirety of the baseline content override . The dynamic content is automatically found and executed with any HTML that is generated when executing the dynamic content being either included within the overall baseline page embedded or used to replace the standard baseline HTML page entirely override . Thus the dynamic content enables the overall architecture to determine at runtime what to display to any given PCD connected to a particular access point or web server .

Also according to the described embodiments certain files e.g. embedded pre processing and post processing files responsible for generating any pertinent dynamic content as a result of any programmatic logic as these may apply reside on the CAC server and not on the local webserver. Unlike static files e.g. .html files .txt files .css files and or binary graphic or rich media files which may be acquired from the CAC server via application of the modified handler described below these dynamic files are not copied and cached in the local webserver s temporary directory. However it is contemplated that these dynamic files may also be made to be cacheable on the local web server s temporary directory in an alternate embodiment.

As described herein the default dynamic content that provides the baseline page e.g. index.adp continues to be considered the baseline page whose content would be rendered exactly as programmed if no embedded or override content was assigned within the welcome page profile. Within the described embodiments content that is assigned to that baseline page via the profile is also a dynamic file .adp which is capable of making individual decisions with regards to what HTML should be rendered and displayed within the PCD s browser whether as embedded or override content. While a static HTML may be included as either embedded or override content in an alternate embodiment the primary embodiments are described from the perspective of assigning dynamic content to the baseline page.

Any such dynamic file assigned as content via the welcome page profile may reside either exactly where specified on the local filesystem e.g. add ins wayport ficcim meeting.adp . In this case that file is sourced and executed directly by the local webserver from the webserver s own filesystem and any HTML generated by the dynamic file would be rendered appropriately within the PCD s browser.

Alternately if the dynamic file assigned as content to the welcome page profile does not reside where specified within the web server s filesystem the modified 404 handler functionality described below and within the related application is invoked and the utility checks the CAC server for a file of the same name residing in the same directory hierarchy as defined by the database record in the welcome page profile e.g. . . . wayport.net add ins wayport flccim meeting.adp . If that dynamic file does reside on the central server and returns HTML when called by the local webserver the returned HTML is rendered appropriately within the PCD s browser either as embedded content or an override of baseline content.

When the baseline page is executed any assigned content elements are simply found wherever they might be and these assigned content are either included or not included based on 1 a determination made by the content elements themselves for dynamic content and 2 whether the content is either cached locally for static content or not cached locally for dynamic content. The following represents an example illustration in which embedded content either static or dynamic is sourced from one of the available sources i.e. local filesystem temporary directory or CAC server depending on characteristics of the content and or the functional implementation features of the invention.

With this exemplary embodiment the baseline file e.g. index.adp is first sourced and executed when the user is to be presented with the Welcome Page. Then the utility finds a first item assigned as embedded content via the welcome page profile. The first item is indicated as being located at a specified location within the file system e.g. add ins wayport maintenance notice.html . The utility locates this first embedded item at that specified location and sources and includes the output of the first item within the whole page HTML of the baseline page .

The utility then finds a second item that is also assigned as embedded content via the Welcome page profile which second file is indicated as being located at a second addressable location e.g. add ins wayport florida notice.html . When the utility does not does not find the second file at the location specified within the file system the utility checks the web server s temporary directory e.g. temporary directory add ins wayport florida notice.html . If the utility locates the file in the web server s temporary directory the utility sources the file and includes the file s output in the whole page HTML of the baseline page .

However if the utility does not locate the second file within the temporary directory the utility initiates a check for the second file with the CAC server e.g. . . . wayport.net add ins wayport florida notice.html . If the second file is found on the CAC server and the server version of the file is newer than the version if any in the web server s temporary directory the utility copies the CAC version of the second file from the central server places the CAC version in the web server s temporary directory. When a previous version of the file exists within the temporary directory the utility replaces the previous version with the CAC version downloaded from the CAC server. If the second file does not exist at any of the three locations the search for the second file terminates and the utility overlooks the file when generating the whole page HTML. Otherwise the resulting HTML sourced from any variation of this implementation is incorporated into the whole page HTML of the baseline page .

Following the utility finds a third item assigned as embedded content which is indicated specified as located at a specific location within the web server s filesystem e.g. add ins wayport flccim greeting.adp . The utility locates the third file at this location and sources and executes that file. This third file unlike the previous two static files .html is a dynamic file .adp . While executing the dynamic file checks whether a the current date perhaps by accessing the web server s calendar and time feature is a pre specified date during which the content should be included within the welcome page e.g. August 21 28 and b the PCD is connected to a specific access point. If the executing dynamic file programmatically determines that the above two necessary criteria are met specific HTML is returned to the calling baseline page. Otherwise when one or both of the criteria is not met no HTML is returned. Thus when the executing dynamic file returns HTML the HTML is incorporated into the whole page output of the baseline page index.adp . Otherwise processing of the welcome page profile continues as if this dynamic file third item had not been assigned.

With this ability to granularly assign content based on external criteria such as date and time access point location and others the invention enables any dynamic content element to execute any and all functionality available to any other web page or application operating within the web server environment on either the web server or the CAC server. For example database queries may include determining whether the end user has already seen and or interacted with a particular block of content such as a rich media advertisement. Thus with the features provided herein CAC server is able to accommodate very specific content requests such as a request to display a message under the following strict set of criteria 1 all users connecting on a Wireless port 2 at hotels with more than 100 rooms 3 in Florida 4 between 2 00 and 4 00 p.m 5 on the first and third Tuesdays of the month 6 on the credit card input page 7 if the PCD is running Windows XP 8 and have connected more than three times in the past six weeks and 9 and one of those connections was in Boston.

Finally the utility locates a fourth item that is assigned as embedded content and which is indicated to be located at a next specific location within the web server s filesystem e.g. add ins wayport flccim registration.adp . The utility checks the specific location and when the file is not found at that location the utility initiates a check of the CAC server for the same file e.g. . . . wayportnet add ins wayport flccim registration.adp . When the file resides where specified on the CAC server the utility invokes the file remotely or the CAC server responds to the request by invoking the file remotely .

On the CAC server the dynamic content file determines whether any content should be returned via one or more programmatic checks. If there is content to be returned to the requesting web server the content is generated and returned to the requesting baseline page. Otherwise no content is returned. If the remotely sourced content that is returned is HTML the HTML is incorporated into the whole page output of the default baseline page index.adp . Otherwise if the returned content is not HTML the utility continues or completes processing the welcome page profile as if the fourth item had not been assigned.

Implementation of the illustrative embodiment provides several benefits including the following non exhaustive list 

Embodiments of the invention may be applied to a series of different applications including but not limited to the following implementations which are presented with examples. The first implementation provides simple messaging and or promotions and or advertisements and or notifications deployable universally within the normal config download timeframe. One example of this application is when providing advanced notice of an expected network outage during routine maintenance.

Another implementation provides customized content deployable at a particular venue for a particular event or purpose either venue wide or by specified criteria. illustrates this feature. As shown Welcome page includes network provider content connection options content with location logo and customized content . The content is sourced from CAC server with graphics and styles cached locally on the web server s filesystem. The content and particularly customized content is determined via page identifiers and program logic contained within the included files themselves. Thus as an example at Venue X Wyndham Buena Vista Palace between August 29 and September 2 pre programmed dates all suites numbered between 701 and 799 specially assigned rooms with specific known access points Access ID receive a special Welcome screen providing links to on line conference registration agenda details etc. customized content .

Yet another implementation involves system wide overrides deployable under any arbitrary criteria allowing the entire connection process to be sub let. illustrates this feature. As shown the entire connection welcome page process is overridden replacing the entire welcome page with a custom one off Welcome screen in which various different content are provided arranged according to that business partner s desires. In one implementation the complete page design layout is provided to the network provider by the business partner client. That page is then hooked in as an override to the Welcome Page profile. As the initial welcome page application executes this override is automatically acquired and executed generating a wholly customized user experience whereby the end user may acquire a connection to the Internet by submitting login credentials to an authentication server operated by the business partner client. In one embodiment RADIUS is utilized to enable two way communication between the parties. As an example at venue X between August 29 and September 2 instead of the usual meeting room connection screen users connecting in meeting rooms 1 9 receive a customized page prompting them to login via login area using their organization s Username Password credentials.

Finally as illustrated by the entire Welcome Page application may be rebranded by performing a single package installation on a central server and creating a single database record. illustrates a fully re branded Welcome Page under the Omni Hotels branding with standard connection options . In this implementation all graphics and files are retrieved from the CAC server and stored locally while the page is rendered for the first user. All HypterText Markup Language HTML behind this page is identical to the network provider s e.g. Wayport and McDonald s Cascading Style Sheet layout with only the stylesheet itself being different.

As an example of the above implementation a business partner client with Brand A requests that Welcome pages for all venues under the business partner s client s control be re branded to the business partner s specification as a requirement for utilizing the network provider s web servers. With the implementation of the WPCC utility and the FCWP master utility such a request can be complied with relatively quickly using only a new stylesheet and automated distribution of static content.

With the above implementations distribution of rich media content and applications may be provided on demand. That is in some embodiments e.g. with the modified Handler described below and within the related application the files are not delivered until requested by a user at which point the files are automatically cached and kept current. For example games for PlayStation Portable or Nintendo music files or videos theatrical trailers etc. are made available for download exclusively between Time X and Time Y at venues of type Z. However in other embodiments supporting static files and or executable source files may be distributed to local field venue specific web servers ahead of time or not at all as in cases where the central servers will handle service and generation of all content without nullifying the ability to customize the actual content and presentation displayed to an end user using the mechanisms described herein.

Implementation of the illustrative embodiments enables customized web page content to be presented to a user interacting with any page that is presented to the user by any of the thousands of servers throughout a large access network. The invention provides a substantial advantage by allowing such content items as large rich media files e.g. video clips music Macromedia Flash applications and others to be stored on a web server to which the user is directly connected at network transport speeds of between 10 and 100 Megabits per second. This provides an enhancement over conventional methods by which the user s browser is forced to acquire such high bandwidth content from a distant server over the comparatively slow network link between the web server to which they are connected and the remote server where such files would be stored. Furthermore the invention greatly reduces the amount of managerial overhead required to rapidly distribute such content on an on demand basis. With conventional methods providing this content would otherwise require updating any number of software packages installed on the aforementioned thousands of servers deployed throughout the physical network.

In another embodiment all user interface components and content are moved off of thee many thousands of servers altogether and are hosted on highly scalable centralized server farms instead. By specifically updating the files at the CAC server a content provider for the web servers is able to efficiently provide updated content to the users of the numerous dispersed web servers without having to physically load that content on each web server. The web servers which do not have updated content or a copy of the content are automatically provided the content when user logs into or accesses the network via the local web server or access point . Of course as mentioned above other embodiments do provide that supporting static files and or executable source files are distributed to local field venue specific web servers ahead of time or not at all without nullifying the ability to customize the actual content and presentation displayed to an end user.

The above description provides exemplary embodiments for implementing the novel features of the invention. Alternate embodiments are also possible including variations of and modifications to the above described illustrative embodiments.

The illustrative embodiments of the invention address the need for availability of an extensively customizable web interface to substantially eliminate the difficulties with content distribution across a vast network of servers. One extension of the described embodiments involves the implementation of a second level file search and retrieval and or the file update replacement functionalities enabled by the invention by which the web server is now capable of controlling retrieval and or updates of content that is servable at the web server. Also the web server substantially reduces the situations in which a request for servable content receives a 404 HTTP error response even when the file is not in the web server s file system.

As described in detail in the related application the above feature provided by that invention includes responding to a conventional 404 Not Found error condition by implementing processes to seamlessly and automatically retrieve and display the requested content or file when the file is not initially located within the web server s own filesystem or in a temporary storage directory on that filesystem as the related application defines. These inventive features of the illustrative and described embodiments provide a method and system for actually locating acquiring and storing files that are intended to be served by the web server s own web pages and applications but which do not actually exist anywhere on that server s file system when initially requested. Another feature of that invention comprises automatically updating the files stored at a web server whenever the file is requested by retrieving a more current recent version of the file from the remote server.

As further described in the related application previously incorporated herein by reference one method for accomplishing this use of customized welcome pages in lieu of the stored copy of welcome page is by not providing the files within the temporary storage directory forcing them to be retrieved in real time from the CAC server. As described in that application when a user connects to the access point the web server s search for the Welcome page and frame layout is redirected from the file system to the temporary storage. When the replacement welcome pages pre processing or post processing content is not found at the temporary storage the web server via WPCC utility then sends a request to the CAC server for that content. Thus unlike conventional server systems which automatically defaults to the welcome page within the file system the default location for the welcome Page a second level check is implemented in which the content for the welcome page and or page layout are retrieved either from the temporary directory or from the CAC server .

With the above features also incorporated herein the above described and illustrative embodiments provide several advantages. Among these advantages are 1 the illustrative embodiments provide many of the benefits of a fully centralized web application while maintaining those of the current de centralized architecture. The invention enables content and functions to be changed at any time while the network overhead remains minimized by serving binary and static content from the local network web server filesystem 2 All temporary cached files are always and automatically kept current allowing continual modifications of any distributed content by simply updating the files that are stored on the centralized CAC servers 3 Managerial overhead is virtually eliminated because these is no need to develop qualify and deploy a large number of packages containing the files and or the program logic necessary to display any particular content to any number of field web servers where such content is intended to be displayed. Instead any such files only need to be placed upon the centralized CAC server and can then be pushed or retrieved on demand from a user PCD in the field that accesses the access point or whose browser requests that content and 4 There is no noticeable or measurable impact on the processing capabilities of the field web servers because the entire system is merely a modification to the same web server process that ordinarily serves pages to users connecting through the network controlled by any particular web server.

As will be further appreciated the processes in embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using any combination of software firmware or hardware. As a preparatory step to practicing the invention in software the programming code whether software or firmware will typically be stored in one or more machine readable storage mediums such as fixed hard drives diskettes optical disks magnetic tape semiconductor memories such as ROMs PROMs etc. thereby making an article of manufacture in accordance with the invention. The article of manufacture containing the programming code is used by either executing the code directly from the storage device by copying the code from the storage device into another storage device such as a hard disk RAM etc. or by transmitting the code for remote execution using transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links. The methods of the invention may be practiced by combining one or more machine readable storage devices containing the code according to the present invention with appropriate processing hardware to execute the code contained therein. An apparatus for practicing the invention could be one or more processing devices and storage systems containing or having network access to program s coded in accordance with the invention.

Thus it is important that while an illustrative embodiment of the present invention is described in the context of a fully functional computer server system with installed or executed software those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software aspects of an illustrative embodiment of the present invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of media used to actually carry out the distribution. By way of example a non exclusive list of types of media include recordable type tangible media such as floppy disks thumb drives hard disk drives CD ROMs and DVDs.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular system device or component thereof to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

