---

title: Multilevel resistive information storage and retrieval
abstract: The present invention relates to resistive random-access memory (RRAM or ReRAM) systems, as well as methods of employing multiple state variables to form degenerate states in such memory systems. The methods herein allow for precise write and read steps to form multiple state variables, and these steps can be performed electrically. Such an approach allows for multilevel, high density memory systems with enhanced information storage capacity and simplified information retrieval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09412446&OS=09412446&RS=09412446
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09412446
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140818
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 866 690 filed Aug. 16 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed generally to resistive random access memory RRAM or ReRAM systems as well as methods of employing multiple state variables to form degenerate states in such memory systems.

Moore s law the exponential increase in transistor density has been the driving force for the technological revolution that has occurred over the past decades. Due to increasing difficulties to continue this pace new approaches are being sought broadly.

Memristors also known as ReRAM5 have been proposed among the leading candidates to replace transistors in part due to their ability to store information within a range of resistances instead of a simple digital ON or OFF. Even so a memristor as conventionally used is at best one dimensional in information space. Great advances in information storage density may be achievable with devices capable of data storage in an information space of two or more dimensions.

The present invention relates to methods for achieving multilevel information storage in one or more resistive memory devices or memristors . A memristor is composed of an insulator and is configured to support a conductive filament within this insulator. Typically a memristor possesses an ON state and an OFF state and each state is described by one state variable i.e. a low resistance state corresponding to the ON state and a high resistance state corresponding to the OFF state .

Here we demonstrate that filament formation within a memristor can be controlled such that the filament can be characterized by one or more state variables. Exemplary state variables include filament geometry e.g. filament radius r filament conductivity resistance of the device R and or applied power P of the device required to change the resistance of the device. Each state can thus be described by two or more of these state variables as compared to devices capable of storing only one state variable either ON or OFF . Thus use of two or more state variables allows for more degenerate states and multiple states which in turn can be stored in a lower number of devices. Furthermore we describe methodologies to write and read stored information and such methodologies can be controlled electrically. Taken together the present invention allows for immense gains in information storage density and in simplified information retrieval.

Accordingly the present invention features a method for storing information in a first resistive memory device having a reactive electrode. The method includes with positive polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power in a first sweep until a first desired stopping point Pis reached and then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power in a second sweep until a first desired set point Pis reached.

In another embodiment the method includes with positive polarity on the reactive electrode applying electric power to the first device e.g. so as to decrease the resistance of the first device in a first sweep varying the applied power until a first desired stopping point Pis reached then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying electric power to the first device and in a second sweep varying the applied power until a first desired set point Pis reached.

In some embodiments the method provides a first filament within the first device. In further embodiments the first filament is characterized by a state having a plurality of state variables. In yet other embodiments at least one state variable is established by Pand or P.

In some embodiments Pestablishes a first filament radius ras one state variable and Pestablished a first conductivity as a second state variable.

In other embodiments a combination of state variables corresponds to a R P storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of the first device and Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the first device.

In some embodiments Pof the first sweep determines which R P storage coordinates will be accessible in the second sweep.

In yet other embodiments each of Pand P together establishes a first power resistance angle as a third state variable where denotes a slope of P R.

In further embodiments the method includes reading the state of the first filament. In some embodiments the reading step includes performing a sweep of applied power Pto the first device and monitoring a resistance of the device during the sweep where a change in resistance is indicated as the resistance setpoint R. In other embodiments Pcorresponds to Pand Rcorresponds to R.

In further embodiments the method includes storing information in a second resistive memory device having a reactive electrode. In some embodiments the storing step includes with positive polarity on the reactive electrode applying electric power to the second device in a third sweep until a second desired stopping point Pis reached and then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying electric power to the second device in a fourth sweep until a second desired set point Pis reached. In other embodiments the step provides a second filament within the second device where the second filament is characterized by a state having a plurality of state variables and where at least one state variable is established by Pand or P.

In other embodiments the storing step in includes with positive polarity on the reactive electrode applying electric power to the second device so as to decrease the resistance of the second device in a third sweep varying the applied power until a second desired stopping point Pis reached then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying electric power to the second device and in a fourth sweep varying the applied power until a second desired set point Pis reached.

In some embodiments Pestablishes a second filament radius ras one state variable Pestablishes a second conductivity as a second state variable and or the combination of Pand Pestablishes a second power resistance angle as the third state variable.

In other embodiments a combination of state variables corresponds to a R P P R storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of the second device Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the second device and P Rdenotes a slope of a change in applied power over a change in resistance.

In another aspect the invention features a resistive memory device made or formed by any useful method e.g. any described herein .

In yet another aspect the invention features a memory including a plurality of m resistive memory devices. In some embodiments each said device contains a respective stored data value embodied in a set of two or more state variables where the state variables include a combination of state variables for each nfilament in each mdevice rdenotes a filament radius for the nfilament and denotes a conductivity for the nfilament. In other embodiments each corresponds to a R P storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of the mdevice having the nfilament and Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the ndevice. In yet other embodiments the state variables include a combination of for each nfilament in each mdevice and denotes a power resistance angle for the nfilament where each corresponds to a R P P R storage coordinate and P Rdenotes a slope of a change in applied power over a change in resistance for the nfilament.

In yet another aspect the invention feature a system including at least one resistive memory device having a reactive electrode a monitoring device configured to measure and to indicate the electrical resistance of the device and a controllable power source configured in response to the inputting of data for storage to perform any method described herein.

In one aspect the invention features a method for storing writing and or reading information in a resistive memory device having a reactive electrode. The method can include with positive polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power in a first sweep until a first desired stopping point Pis reached and then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power in a second sweep until a first desired set point Pis reached thereby providing an nfilament in the device. For each device the first and second sweeps can be conducted any number of useful times to write information on the first device. In one embodiment the method can be performed for each nfilament which is written and rewritten for an n number of times in the same device with the same or different Pand P. In another embodiment the method can be performed for each nfilament that is written and rewritten in a plurality of m devices where each Pand Pcan be the same or different. As used herein m is an integer of more than 1.

In another aspect invention features a method of storing writing and or reading information in an array having a plurality of resistive memory devices e.g. where each device has a reactive electrode . The method can include with positive polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power to at least one device in a first sweep until a first desired stopping point Pis reached and then with negative polarity on the reactive electrode applying an electric power to the at least one device in a second sweep until a first desired set point Pis reached. For each device the first and second sweeps can be conducted any number of useful times to write information on the first device. In addition each device within the array can be written read rewritten and reread any useful number of times. In addition each stopping point Pand set point Pfor each filament in each device can be the same or different. In some embodiments each storage coordinate R P for each filament in each device can be the same or different.

In any embodiment herein the sweep establishing P e.g. the first sweep for P is current limited. In another embodiment the sweep establishing P e.g. the second sweep for P is voltage limited. In yet another embodiment one or more sweeps e.g. the first second and or other sweeps are power controlled.

In any embodiment herein Pestablishes a filament radius ras one state variable and Pestablishes a conductivity as a second state variable for the nfilament. In other embodiments the conductivity is a radial conductivity for an nfilament at a radial position e.g. where is any value between 0 i.e. at the center of the filament and r i.e. at the edge of the filament . In yet other embodiments each of Pand P together establishes a power resistance angle as a third state variable where denotes a slope of P R.

In any embodiment herein a combination of state variables or corresponds to a R P storage coordinate where Rdenotes a resistance of a device having the nfilament and Pdenotes an applied power needed to begin changing the resistance of the device having the nfilament. In other embodiments a combination of state variables or corresponds to a set of distinct R P coordinates i.e. a set of r p for each data curve a slope P R and or a fit f R P .

In any embodiment herein the method includes reading the state of the nfilament. In some embodiments the reading step includes performing a sweep of applied power Pto the first device and monitoring a resistance of the device during the sweep where a change in resistance is indicated as the resistance setpoint R. In any embodiment herein Pcorresponds to P and Rcorresponds to R.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

By employing the methods herein information can be written in a controlled manner. The present invention employs a memristor device to write and store information. Each storage coordinate e.g. a R P P R coordinate reflects two or more physical characteristics of a conductive filament within a memristor device. Generally conductive filaments are difficult to form in a controlled manner. Here we present methods to form and characterize conductive filaments in a precise way. Each component of the multiple variable storage coordinate e.g. R and P is influenced by one or more physical characteristics of the conductive filament e.g. physical characteristics such as filament radius r or filament conductivity . Using the methods herein filament radius r and filament conductivity can be independently set or written by applying power to the reactive electrode of the memristor device. Thus information can be written simply.

In addition we found that the conventional approach to multistate memory drastically understates the information storage capacity of ReRAM devices. Typically information is stored in zero dimension or in one dimension. The present invention relates to information storage in multiple dimensions i.e. two or more dimensions and each bit of information can be represented by a multiple variable storage coordinate e.g. a R P coordinate or a R P P R coordinate. These storage coordinates reflect resistance Rand applied power P and these resistance and power values can be measured electrically. Thus information can be read simply.

As these coordinates have multiple dimensions degenerate states can be present and yet still be resolved. For instance each resistance value Rcan store any y number of states so long as each power value Pis different. Thus information can be stored at high density.

Details on methods of writing reading and storing information with memristors are described herein. Using standard tantalum oxide memristor devices and a simple approach to read and write we have demonstrated multi state storage in multidimensional information space and we suggest approaches to expand into even more hidden dimensions. Based on the details herein this approach can be applied to a wide range of memristor devices formed from various materials.

A range of dimensionalities in information is possible but difficult to realize. For instance generally information space in digital systems is zero dimensional where a single state can exist or not exist. Resistive memory like several other device structures can be thought of as one dimensional in information space where information can be stored as a point along any of a range of possible resistance states.

Here we describe information storage in multiple dimensions i.e. in two or more dimensions. As shown in the present invention includes information storage in two dimensions such as geometry or composition. As an example two dimensional storage is realized by controlling the geometry and composition of a filament in a memristor device. i iii shows schematics of an exemplary memristor having a filament disposed within an insulator and between two electrodes. Geometry e.g. radius r and composition e.g. conductivity can be tuned and controlled separately by progressing through the current voltage hysteresis loop iv vi . This step of tuning or controlling filament formation is the writing or SET step and is further discussed below.

In fact memristors may even be capable of more possibly many more dimensions . For instance an additional dimension includes a power resistance angle which is the angle between a baseline and a P R slope which is a change in applied power P over a change in resistance R for a filament. Details on how to set are also described herein.

Thus multilevel space can be realized by employing two or more state variables. Exemplary state variables include filament geometry e.g. a filament radius rfor an nfilament or a filament shape such as a cylinder or a set of concentric nested cylinders filament composition e.g. a filament conductivity for an nfilament or a radial conductivity for an nfilament at a radial position e.g. where is any value between 0 i.e. at the center of the filament and r i.e. at the edge of the filament and dynamic feature e.g. power resistance angle for an nfilament.

Reading multiple state variables is simplified by using the equations herein to determine the applied power required to activate resistive switching e.g. P in Eq. 1 the voltage to read information e.g. Vin Eq. 2 or 14 and the predicted switching data e.g. constitutive Eqs. 7a 7b . Although it is physically intuitive to span information space using state variables such as filament radius it is more practical to consider the electrical power and resistance. Thus multilevel space can be characterized by storage coordinates including a combination of a resistance Rof the ndevice an applied power Pneeded to begin changing the resistance of the ndevice and a slope P Rof a change in applied power over a change in resistance for the nfilament. Resistance can be easily read electrically and since the thermal profile depends on both geometry and conductivity the power required to reach thermal activation can be used to read the second dimension in information space.

The present invention includes methods of writing information by employing a memristor device. In particular information is written by forming filaments having particular state variables such as r and or . Filament formation can be controlled by navigating the hysteresis curves obtained when switching a memristor between ON and OFF states.

In filament formation is shown schematically i iii as well as in corresponding current voltage I V curves iv vi and power resistance P R curves vii ix . Redrawing the I V hysteresis loop in terms of P R coordinates provides a more convenient basis than radius and conductivity. Starting from the high resistance state positive polarity on the reactive top electrode causes a filament to increase conductivity i iv vii until saturation. Further increasing power with positive polarity causes the radius to increase ii v viii and reversing polarity causes conductivity to decrease iii vi ix . In this way various geometry conductivity combinations can be achieved.

In a simple two dimensional information space radius and conductivity are the two separate state variables. By varying the positive power and negative power sequentially various rand combinations can be set . For the first configuration applying power with a positive polarity on the reactive electrode sets the filament radius r. In one embodiment this power is applied by using current sourced on switching. For instance increasing positive current inert electrode grounded is applied thereby decreasing resistance and injecting oxygen vacancies from the reactive electrode until the concentration saturates. After saturation further increases in positive current results in increasing the radius of the saturated region. When current is applied to a first desired stopping point P the filament radius ris set .

To set conductivity power with an opposite polarity is applied on the reactive electrode. In one embodiment this power is applied by using voltage sourced off switching. For instance increasing negative voltage is applied thereby increasing resistance and drawing oxygen vacancies back into the reactive electrode. Further increases in negative current result in decreasing conductivity. When voltage is applied to a first desired stopping point P the filament conductivity is set .

Generally sweeping power in the positive and negative directions alternately allows one to set the resistance and the electrical power required for thermal activation separately. Additionally operating in power and resistance gives specific set points that can be reproduced even if the filament properties change with cycling. In that way the storage locations are unaffected by issues such as device degradation that may affect geometry and conductivity. Degradation effects may limit the range of states but do not affect their location in information space. In some embodiments current sourced ON switching was used to set the filament radius P IR with R decreasing whereas voltage sourced OFF switching was used to control the filament conductivity P V R with R increasing . In some non limiting instances power limited sourcing can be used for precision control as negative feedback decreases the applied power and self limits thermal activation guaranteeing precise freezing of resistive switching at the desired state variable values.

In particular we found that the dominating physics in these devices is thermal activation which enables steady state analog operation when using power limited switching to control filament formation i.e. current control for resistance reduction and voltage control for resistance increases . The steady state method of operation simplifies selection of specific resistances and allows the same resistance value to be set to different radius conductivity combinations precisely.

Filaments with degenerate states can be formed. For instance by sweeping to a small positive current and small negative voltage a filament with a small radius and large average conductivity may be formed configuration 1 having state variables . Alternatively by sweeping to a large positive current and a large negative voltage a filament with a large radius and small conductivity may be formed configuration 2 having state variables where r rand 

As shown schematically in right alternate combinations of state variables affect the switching properties of the device and give rise to different storage coordinates R P . As seen the required resistance R as well as applied power P required to thermally activate ionic motion and initiate resistive switching is clearly identified. The small radius large conductivity filament configuration is observed to require substantially less applied power P

We have shown that since conductivity and radius of the conducting filament in a memristive device can be separately controlled and measured memristors should be viewed as multi dimensional in information space. We demonstrated a simple approach to writing and reading these variables with precision and reproducibility by spanning the space in resistance and thermal activation power instead of radius and conductivity. Spanning the space in this way increases the ease of interacting with the device and provides a reproducible method for storing and retrieving data even if the physical properties of the device change over time.

In view of the foregoing it will be understood that we have found a way to store and retrieve information embodied in multiple state variables in a single resistive memory device. As interpreted in our physical model multiple state variables are accessible because the filamentary radii and the conductivity of the filamentary structure can be set independently. In an exemplary procedure according to our present understanding power applied with the reactive electrode at positive polarity is used to increase the filamentary radius or more broadly the filamentary geometry as the filament should not generally be understood to be a uniform cylinder to a desired value. Then power applied with the opposite polarity is used to decrease the conductivity until a desired final resistance state is reached.

The combination of filamentary geometry and conductivity combine to give a particular resistance state that is distinguishable from other such states even from other states exhibiting the same resistance by first reading the resistance with appropriate monitoring equipment and then sweeping the power to the point where the resistance begins to change. The second step equivalently stated is to measure the activation power.

In an exemplary procedure for data storage the step that decreases the resistance is performed under current control i.e. in a current limited process and the step that increases the resistance is performed under voltage control. This limitation is advantageous because it inherently prevents positive feedback which could otherwise result in the applied power exceeding the activation power. Alternatively both steps may be performed under explicit power control.

An exemplary information storage procedure i.e. a write procedure includes the following steps. First switch the resistive device to the OFF state e.g. to point a as shown in . Second sweep the applied power along the OFF state curve e.g. along the gray solid line from point b to point c such as from about 2.5 mW to about 0 mW in . This process is reversible and does not produce a permanent change. Third continue to sweep a short distance along the ON switching curve e.g. along the dashed white line from point c to point d such as from 0.2 mW to about 1 mW in . Optionally this step is performed under current limited conditions. This step according to our physical model will fill the conductive filament to its minimum radius. Fourth continue to sweep along the P R curve such as toward point d . This will produce a drop in resistance while increasing power and according to our current understanding will increase the filamentary radius. Stop the sweep at a desired stopping point Pon the state diagram which we believe corresponds to a desired value of the filamentary radius r. This will determine which resistance power R P combinations will subsequently be accessible for data storage. Very roughly this step may be thought of as setting the activation power P. Finally switch to voltage limited operation reverse the applied polarity and sweep through increasingly negative voltages to pass through the various R P storage coordinates that are accessible. Stop at a first desired set point Pon the state diagram corresponding to the desired R P storage coordinate.

As noted above filaments in our physical model are not generally to be regarded as uniform cylinders. In fact we believe that the detailed filamentary geometry and concentration profile provide access to further dimensions useful for data storage beyond the two state variables described in detail above. For example according to our physical model if the filament assumes a cylindrical shape that is uniform in concentration the temperature profile across the filament will tend spontaneously toward a distribution that is centrally peaked. On the other hand if the concentration profile assumes a shape with a depressed center the temperature profile may tend toward uniformity. The temperature distribution within the filament affects the specific locations where further oxygen vacancies are accreted or depleted. Thus by manipulating the temperature profile it is possible to manipulate the distribution of oxygen vacancy doping in the filament. We believe this can be achieved by cycling or alternating applied power between positive and negative polarity. In that manner one may design a specific concentration profile within the filament.

This profile will result in a distinct trajectory through the R P state space during the read process which is readily recognized by monitoring resistance and subsequent activation powers in a sweep that is continued beyond the initial power induced resistance change.

The present invention also encompasses methods of reading information written and stored as state variables. As discussed above with respect to state variables give rise to measurable storage coordinates e.g. a storage coordinate R P . Values for Rand Pcan be determined by any equations herein e.g. Eqs. 1 7a 7b 9 15a 15b and or 16. As described herein in some embodiments each storage coordinate Rand Pcorresponds to a unique combination of state variables e.g. r or any described herein.

The present invention relates to methods and memristors including arrays thereof configured for high density multilevel storage. For instance information can be stored in multiple dimensions e.g. multiple state variables thereby expanding the number of storage coordinates capable of being stored in a single device. Assuming that each device can store z states one can employ an x y array of devices e.g. an array of memristor devices to allow x y z states to be stored in the array at one time where each of x y and z is independently an integer of 1 or more. In some embodiments z is an integer of 2 or more.

As an example describes information storage employing storage coordinates P and R. Information can be stored within any point in the gray bounds in illustrating the range of available states that can be achieved. As can be seen some states can be degenerate. For instance states i to iv are degenerate because two states possess the same storage coordinate. For example states i and iii possess the same power P and states i and ii possess the same resistance R. However as each storage coordinate is comprised of two state variables such degeneracy expands the number of allowable states but still allows each state to be uniquely addressed.

To experimentally demonstrate storage in two dimensional information space we used tantalum oxide memristors fabricated using a completely CMOS compatible process. Power was applied in long duration pulses and the devices were then allowed to cool between pulses. Thus each data point should be viewed as an independent read and write cycle. For the purpose of visual clarity in this simple proof of principle experiment we only include approximately 100 states. It is apparent from that much larger state densities are possible. Even at this low state density per dimension this single memristor displaces approximately seven 7 digital bits. With sensitive electronics operating in steady state it should be possible to extend the number of states per dimension greatly to achieve state densities well beyond what we show here.

The above discussion assumes cylindrical filaments with constant conductivity which is an approximation that agrees well with experiment but is not true in all cases. There will certainly be gradients in conductivity. When applying negative power to reduce conductivity of the filament the thermally activated region will begin near the center and proceed outward. The resulting conductivity distribution will be shaped like an annulus or depressed plateau.

Further methodologies can be used to provide high density storage. In one instance storage density is increased by increasing the range of states or state sensitivity left . For example the range of states depicted as arrows leading away from the bounded gray area can be increased by increasing the range of the storage coordinates P and R. For instance additional P and R values can be accessed by increasing or decreasing the power limit of the electric power applied to the device. By way of example only lowering the current limit when establishing the filament radius rwould provide a larger radius thereby increasing the P value. In yet another example state sensitivity depicted as arrows leading toward the center of the dark gray square representing a state can be increased by decreasing noise for the P and R values.

In another instance storage density is increased by adding additional dimensions to the information space such as rates of change during a read process e.g. P R or the path taken through the P R space right . For example paths can be characterized by the number of deflection points between straight lines slopes of lines a curve fit model such as a non linear regression curve model or a combination of tangent lines. provides exemplary simulated R P curves representing three states labeled 1 2 and 3 . These states can be characterized by any useful state variables. For instance state 1 can be represented by storage coordinates R P . In addition state 1 can also be represented by power resistance angle which is the angle between the slope of the activation power resistance curve and a baseline here shown as a dashed line at a power limit of about 0.6 mW .

State 3 shows an alternative storage coordinate i.e. f R P shown as a dashed arrow in . Here fis a curve that is fit to the R P data collected for state 3. This curve fit can be any useful curve model including a non linear regression model or a shell model as described herein employing any useful equation e.g. any herein as well as any using numerical simulations with multiple variable fits . As can be seen each state can be represented by one storage coordinate or a combination of a plurality of different storage coordinates such as an R P coordinate a set of distinct R P coordinates i.e. a set of r p for each data curve a slope P R a power resistance angle and or a fit f R P . One or more of these storage coordinates may be employed to characterize a single bit of information.

Data provided in show that various storage coordinates can be separately written and read. Power resistance switching curves are shown for multiple radial conductivity profiles curves labeled 1 2 and 3 resulting from multiple concatenations of additional filaments which lead to an approximately continuous variation in the radial conductivity profile. A finite difference thermal switching simulator was shown to reproduce the observed P R switching characteristics upper inset as a result of the shown radial concentration profiles lower inset .

To obtain a thermal profile having differing P Ror or f R P each bit can be represented by a conductive filament having a graded distribution of filament radii . For instance power can be cycled to intentionally create graded distributions or radii within radii see lower inset in . Additionally the thermal profile and therefore the shape of the thermally activated region can be controlled by changing the temperature surrounding the device. All of these effects can be mathematically modeled through a set of constitutive equations for filamentary memristors. These alternate geometry states can be differentiated by the manner in which their resistance changes with power once sufficient power for thermal activation is achieved. Use of varied concentration gradients in addition to radius and conductivity increases experimental complexity but may provide a third dimension for storage in information space.

These described dimensions are by no means the ultimate limit for information storage in resistive memory. It becomes more complicated to depict physically but the curvature or any other distinguishable effect observed in the power resistance path after activation could potentially be used as an independent dimension. One physically intuitive approach we have not yet mentioned involves the vertical dimension within the device. Varying conductivity vertically in addition to radially provides an independent axis of information storage that may detectably alter the path through the power resistance phase space. Alternatively information could be read by monitoring interface effects at either electrode or within the device itself.

The present invention employs memristors to write store and read information. In particular switching of the memristor to ON and OFF states provides a conductive filament. As shown in the different states and switching can be represented on an P R coordinate system or an I V coordinate system. Exemplary memristors are shown in which are further described below.

Memristor switching can be modeled as a thermally activated system. shows hysteresis curves having two different I V end points points B and C where the resistive switching was current limited for ON switching and voltage limited for OFF switching. Ideally memristors should display the canonical figure 8 switching curve as shown in the inset of . This canonical curve is rarely observed. Rather as seen in switching data usually display sharp end points suggesting a more dynamic process for filament switching. provides a thermal model which accurately describes the observed switching dynamics see fits shown as gray and white lines in . In brief the thermal model is a steady state model that compensates for Joule heat being generated and dispersed during filament formation. provides a physical depiction of the microscopic ionic flux in multiple switching regimes described by the constitutive also described herein including its ON switching ON state OFF switching and OFF state . Additional details for this model and its constitutive equations are provided herein.

Any useful memristors and arrays thereof may be employed. For instance the memristor can include a top electrode a bottom electrode and an insulator disposed between the top and bottom electrodes. In one embodiment the memristor includes a reactive electrode an inert electrode and an insulator disposed between the top and bottom electrodes . In another embodiment the memristor includes a reactive Ta electrode an inert Pt electrode and a TaOinsulator disposed between the top and bottom electrodes . The memristor can further include a third electrode disposed on top of the reactive electrode. Any useful architecture may be employed.

The methods herein can be employed for memristors formed from a broad range of materials. Exemplary memristors include bipolar switching memristors including those described in Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 January 8 13 24 Balatti S et al. 2013 25 1474 8 Burr G W 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 Chang T et al. 2011 5 9 7669 76 U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 395 926 and 8 450 711 as well as U.S. Pub. Nos. 2011 0169136 and 2014 0027705 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

Any useful insulator capable of transporting vacancies cations and or anions may be employed. Exemplary insulators include transition metal oxide TMO films containing mobile oxygen ions metal cations and or oxygen vacancies such as TiO TaO WO HfO ZrO SrTiO MoO NiO AlO AlNO and NbO. Other materials are described in Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 January 8 13 24 and Wong H S P et al. Metal oxide RRAM 2012 June 100 6 1951 70 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Other insulators include MO where M is a transition metal e.g. a metal present in the resistive switching element and each of a and b is independently an integer of from 1 to 5. In other embodiments M is a transition metal e.g. any in groups IV X such as Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Mo W Tc Re Co Rh Ir Ni Pd or Pt . In yet other embodiments the insulator includes MO where M is a transition metal e.g. any in groups IV X such as Ti Zr Hf V Nb Ta Mo W Tc Re Co Rh Ir Ni Pd or Pt .

Electrodes can be formed from any useful material. In particular a conductive element serves as an electrode and is typically made from electrically conductive metals e.g. tungsten W tungsten nitride WN gold Au silver Ag copper Cu chromium Cr platinum Pt iridium Ir nickel Ni silicon Si silicon carbide SiC molybdenum Mo cobalt Co ruthenium Ru titanium Ti titanium nitride TiN titanium aluminum nitride TiAlN aluminum Al hafnium Hf strontium Sr tantalum Ta and tantalum nitride TaN as well as doped forms alloy forms amorphous forms crystalline forms and laminated forms thereof . Exemplary electrode pairs include an active electrode formed from an electrochemically active or oxygen reactive material e.g. Ta and an inert electrode formed from an electrochemically inert material e.g. Pt . Other non limiting electrochemically active or oxygen reactive materials include Ag Cu Ni Ta Hf Ti Sr or alloys and combined forms thereof such as CuTe SrRuO or TiN and electrochemically inert materials include W Pt Au Mo Co Cr Ru Ir doped poly Si TiW TiN or TaN.

The components of the device can be formed by any useful process. Exemplary processes include reactive sputtering sputtering chemical vapor deposition CVD pulse laser deposition PLD atomic layer deposition ALD gas cluster ion beam e.g. as described in U.S. Pub. No. 2012 0104347 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety photolithography lift off etching electron beam lithography spin coating dip coating spraying roller coating electroplating etc. As those skilled in the art will appreciate various alternative deposition methods may be useful in this regard which collectively include sputtering CVD atomic layer deposition ALD and evaporation. Additional processes and materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 129 133 Lohn A J et al. Optimizing TaOmemristor performance and consistency within the reactive sputtering forbidden region 2013 103 063502 Lohn A J et al. A CMOS compatible forming free TaOReRAM 2013 58 5 59 65 and Lohn A J et al. Stages of switching in tantalum oxide memristor held 26 29 May 2013 in Monterey Calif. 4 pp. each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Memristors can be provided in any useful format and include any other useful components in any useful architecture e.g. serial and or parallel schemes . For instance an array e.g. a cross bar array can include a plurality of memristor devices where each device is electrically connected to a source and or a sourcemeter by a line. As shown in the array can include a plurality of devices connected electrically by one or more lines . In yet another embodiment as shown in the array can include a plurality of m devices and a plurality of m components each connected electrically by a word line a source line and a bit line . Exemplary components include a transistor e.g. a MOSFET an amplifier a decoder a capacitor a comparator a modulator a switch a diode or any other useful electrical component. Any useful number of components and lines may be present. For instance the array can include x y m devices including x bit lines y word lines and y source lines where each of x and y is an integer more than 1.

The state of the device is controlled by the presence of the conductive filament which is created upon switching the device. In turn state variables describe one or more characteristics of the filament and each bit of information includes a combination of one or more state variables. Storage coordinates are measurable data and the value of the storage coordinates correspond to particular state variables or particular combinations of state variables.

Any useful state variable s or combinations of such variables may be employed. Exemplary state variables include geometry of the filament e.g. a filament radius rfor an nfilament a graded distribution of radii for filament having a concentric set of q filaments each having a radius of r a cylindrical filament having a radius r or a cone shaped filament having a base radius r and or filament composition such as a filament conductivity for an nfilament or a radial conductivity for an nfilament at a radial position e.g. where is any value between 0 i.e. at the center of the filament and r i.e. at the edge of the filament and a dynamic feature e.g. a power resistance angle for an nfilament.

Each state can be represented by one storage coordinate or a combination of a plurality of different storage coordinates such as an R P coordinate a set of distinct R P coordinates i.e. a set of r p for each data curve a slope P R a power resistance angle and or a fit f R P . One or more of these storage coordinates may be employed to characterize a single bit of information.

The resistance changes by modulating the conductivity profile of a conducting filament. The conductivity profile of the filament determines the resistance but it also determines the temperature profile of the device. The temperature profile determines which regions of the conductivity profile are allowed to change. If the entire filament changes simultaneously then it is difficult to precisely control the resistance. However if only a small region of the filament is able to change at any given time then it is much easier to control the resistance. As discussed below we are able to control the conductivity profile which allows us to control the temperature profile and in turn allows us to control the regions of the filament that can change. Thus resistance can be controlled precisely.

In the conductivity profile for curve is generally flat which causes abrupt changes in resistance. Putting a step in the conductivity profiles puts a step in the electrical behavior providing enhanced resistance control. In some embodiments many steps can give a smooth conductivity profile as shown in curves and in which equates to smooth resistance control.

For a smooth conductivity profile the filament can be configured to have a radially changing conductivity. For instance the filament can include a radial profile r having a higher in the center of the filament i.e. at filament radius of 0 nm in the lower inset of and a lower at the edge of the filament i.e. at filament radius of 8 nm for filament in the lower inset of . Between the center and edge of the filament conductivity can vary in any useful manner either linearly exponentially curvilinearly etc.

A smooth conductivity profile can result from a filament composed of at least two concentric filaments. An exemplary process of creating such a filament is as follows. With the inert electrode grounded ON switching occurs by applying positive voltage on the reactive electrode and OFF switching occurs by applying negative voltage on the reactive electrode. A first filament with a large radius and low conductivity is formed. This is achieved in two steps first the device is turned ON resistance decrease to a desired stopping point Pcorresponding to a specific radius where more ON or lower resistance means larger radius. Second the device is turned partly OFF resistance increase until a first desired set point Pby decreasing the conductivity at the radius that was previously determined. This radius and conductivity combination is the bottom step of the conductivity profile.

Then a second filament is formed where this second filament is contained within the center of the first filament. The second filament is formed by performing the steps above but for smaller radius and larger conductivity. Namely the device is turned partly ON thereby starting to develop a new region of high conductivity within the previously made first element. Specifying the stopping resistance during ON switching to a desired stopping point Pspecifies the radius of the second step and specifying the stopping resistance during OFF switching to a desired set point Pspecifies the conductivity of the second step.

This process can be repeated to create many steps or an approximately smooth conductivity profile. The resistance during each ON switching half cycle must not get to a value as low as the previous ON switching half cycle or the new step will widen the previous one.

Similarly the resistance during each OFF switching half cycle must not get to a value as high as the previous OFF switching half cycle or the new step will start to decrease the conductivity level of the previous step.

Moore s law the exponential increase in transistor density has been the driving force for the technological revolution that has occurred over the past decades but it has become increasingly difficult to continue leading to a broad search for new approaches Dieny B et al. Emerging non volatile memories magnetic and resistive technologies 2013 46 7 070301 Ielmini D Reliability issues and modeling of Flash and post Flash memory 2009 September July 86 7 9 1870 5 and Burr G W Overview of candidate device technologies for storage class memory 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 .

Memristors also known as ReRAM see Chua L O Memristor The missing circuit element 1971 September 18 5 507 19 and Strukov D B et al. The missing memristor found 2008 May 453 80 3 have been proposed among the leading candidates to replace transistors in part due to their ability to store information within a range of resistances instead of a simple digital ON or OFF Kim H et al. Memristor based multilevel memory 2010 12 held on 3 5 Feb. 2010 in Berkeley Calif. pp. 1 6 and Manem H et al. A read monitored write circuit for 1T1M multi level memristor memories 2011 held on 15 18 May 2011 in Rio de Janeiro pp. 2938 41 .

We show that this approach to multi state memory drastically understates the information storage capacity of these devices. Each resistance state can in fact be decomposed into separate geometry and composition components which can be independently controlled and measured see Example 2 herein and Lohn A J et al. Degenerate resistive switching and ultrahigh density storage in resistive memory arXiv 1406.4033 cond mat.mtrl sci accessible from arxiv.org abs 1406.4033 . Further these states can be decoupled from their physical origin to be set and read using the resistance and the power required for thermal activation as state variables. This change greatly simplifies both the set and read operations. Using standard tantalum oxide devices and a simple approach to read and write we demonstrate multi state storage in multi dimensional information space and suggest approaches to expand into even more hidden dimensions.

Information space in digital systems is zero dimensional where a single state can exist or not exist. Resistive memory like several other device structures can be thought of as one dimensional in information space where information can be stored as a point along any of a range of possible resistance states Gao X M et al An innovative sensing architecture for multilevel Flash memory 2012 11 . held on 29 Oct. 2012 1 Nov. 2012 in Xi an pp. 1 3 Garcia V et al. Electronics Inside story of ferroelectric memories 2012 March 483 279 81 and Panagopoulos G et al. Exploring variability and reliability of multi level STT MRAM cells 2012 70 held on 18 20 Jun. 2012 at University Park Tex. p. 139 40 .

Example 2 herein shows that the resistance state in filamentary memristive systems can be set either by varying the radius or the conductivity of a cylindrical filament separately. In doing the individual resistance states are in fact two dimensional in information space. Although a single resistance is measured it is composed of two separately tunable dimensions namely geometry and conductivity. A range of dimensionalities in information space are depicted in where based on the above argument memristors should be viewed as an implementation in two dimensions though it may be possible to expand into more possibly many more dimensions.

It has also been shown that the dominating physics in these devices is thermal activation which enables steady state analog operation using power limited switching to control the device i.e. current control for resistance reduction and voltage control for resistance increases . The steady state method of operation makes stable and precise selection of specific resistances possible and allows the same resistance value to be set to various radius conductivity combinations.

In this simple two dimensional information space radius and conductivity are the two separate state variables. Increasing positive current inert electrode grounded to decrease resistance injects oxygen vacancies from the reactive electrode until the concentration saturates. After saturation further increases in positive current increase the radius of the saturated region. Applying a negative voltage to increase resistance draws oxygen vacancies back into the reactive electrode. By varying the positive power and negative power sequentially the resistance can be set as shown in to a range of radius conductivity combinations.

Although it is physically intuitive to span information space using radius and conductivity it is more practical to consider the electrical power and resistance. Resistance can be easily read electrically and since the thermal profile depends on both geometry and conductivity the power required to reach thermal activation can be used to read the second dimension in information space. Sweeping power in the positive and negative directions alternately allows one to set the resistance and the electrical power required for thermal activation separately. Additionally operating in power and resistance gives specific set points that can be reproduced even if the filament properties change with cycling. In that way the storage locations are unaffected by issues such as device degradation that may affect geometry and conductivity. Degradation effects may limit the range of states but do not affect their location in the power resistance information space.

To experimentally demonstrate storage in two dimensional information space we used tantalum oxide memristors fabricated using a completely CMOS compatible process Lohn A J et al. Optimizing TaOmemristor performance and consistency within the reactive sputtering forbidden region 2013 103 063502 and Lohn A J et al. A CMOS compatible forming free TaOReRAM 2013 58 5 59 65 . A simple Labview program controlled an Agilent 4156B for all tests. Power was applied in long duration pulses well in excess of the anticipated switching times Torrezan A C et al. Sub nanosecond switching of a tantalum oxide memristor 2011 22 48 485203 .

The devices were then allowed to cool between pulses so each data point should be viewed as an independent read and write cycle. For the purpose of visual clarity in this simple proof of principle experiment we only include approximately 100 states but it is apparent from that much larger state densities are possible. Even at such low state density per dimension this single memristor displaces approximately seven 7 digital bits. With sensitive electronics operating in steady state it should be possible to extend the number of states per dimension greatly to achieve state densities well beyond what we show here.

In the most general case the written state and the read state are not identical. Even in the standard approach which uses only resistance levels for one dimensional data storage increasing emphasis is being placed on use of resistance states that are non linear with voltage to avoid potential sneak path issues. This non linearity is desirable but implies that the measured resistance at the write voltage is different from the measured resistance of the same state at the read voltage. A similar effect is present in the write read relationship for activation power. The activation power can be read by increasing voltage current or power until thermal activation is achieved and the resistance state changes. For a perfectly cylindrical filament the temperature is highest in the center so with less power than is required to activate the entire filament a small segment of the cylinder near the center will become activated and allow for resistance changes. In terms of implementation the read powers can be stored in a lookup table or converted via the following equation which can be derived from the equations detailed in Example 2 for a cylindrical filament 

Increasing thermal resistance of the electrodes will simplify the read step for activation power as discussed above but has a number of additional benefits. Increasing electrode thermal resistance increases the maximum resistance and decreases the minimum resistance. A larger dynamic range is therefore created for storing additional states and the increased maximum resistance means the devices can be read at lower powers. Write powers are also reduced because the increased thermal resistance drives temperature up by holding in heat. Electrode thermal resistances should be increased for these reasons irrespective of the simplification it affords in reading multi dimensional devices.

Although not a necessity it is still possible to read and write at the same activation power even in the absence of the electrode modifications discussed above. If the temperature profile can be made flat then the entire filament will be activated at a single power which is equal to both the read and write power. Following the radius increase phase of ON switching partial OFF switching can be used to achieve that flat temperature profile. In the first stages of OFF switching the temperature is highest at the center so the electrical conductivity is reduced there first. Current density is then moved to the surrounding region where temperatures there rise and core temperature drops. This negative feedback process progresses until a conductivity profile exists that is self arranged to create a flat temperature profile. Therefore over a reduced range of states the write and read powers will be identical even without the modification for thermally resistive electrodes.

Of course maximizing storage in multi dimensional information space is a daunting and multi faceted engineering challenge. The number of states is determined by their density and the range from minimum to maximum values right . As discussed above the range of states can be increased by increasing electrode thermal resistance but many other approaches can be easily derived from the memristive constitutive relations. Over a defined range of states bit density in any one dimension will be limited by a variety of issues. Atoms will gradually diffuse causing the individual states to drift slightly. The activation temperature in tantalum oxide is greater than 1000 C. Strukov D B et al. Thermophoresis diffusion as a plausible mechanism for unipolar resistive switching in metal oxide metal memristors 2012 107 509 18 and Larentis S et al. Filament diffusion model for simulating reset and retention processes in RRAM 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 which implies that at standard operating temperatures this thermal drift should be relatively small.

Also the resolution in setting or reading the states may be limited by the steepness of the temperature profile which determines the regions in the device that are thermally activated. Increasing temperature profile steepness can be achieved by decreasing temperature surrounding the device which suggests a method to increase state density. Noise and sensitivity in both the read and write circuitry will also likely present limitations to be overcome but the use of steady state power limited control circuitry greatly enhances the sensitivity of both read and write enabling nearly immediate access to large state densities.

It is worth reiterating that these devices require no changes to the current processes that ReRAM manufacturers around the world already have in place. It is also worth reiterating the simplicity of the methods for reading and writing these large numbers of states. We require only that power and resistance be controlled and measured. The power can be limited by using current control when reducing resistance and by using voltage control when increasing resistance or by designing specialized power control circuitry. The ideas presented here can therefore be rapidly integrated into the current ReRAM technology.

We have shown that since conductivity and radius of the conducting filament in a memristive device can be separately controlled and measured memristors should be viewed as multi dimensional in information space. We demonstrated a simple approach to writing and reading these variables with precision and reproducibility by spanning the space in resistance and thermal activation power instead of radius and conductivity. Spanning the space in this way increases the ease of interacting with the device and provides a reproducible method for storing and retrieving data even if the physical properties of the device change over time. Although we only demonstrate multi dimensional storage in two dimensions we propose that many others should be possible. The search for new dimensions and our expansion into them ushers in a new era in information storage and a path forward beyond Moore s Law.

Memristors as fundamental passive circuit elements Chua L O 1971 September 18 5 507 19 and Strukov D B et al. 2008 May 453 80 3 are reshaping computing paradigms as the leading candidate for the future of computer memory as well as by enabling entirely new approaches to circuitry neural Burr G W 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 Waser R et al. Nanoionics based resistive switching memories 2007 6 11 833 40 and Yang J J et al. Memristive devices for computing 2013 8 1 13 24 .

The most prevalent class of memristors are those in which the formation and modification of a nano scale conducting filament controls the resistance state of the device and a world wide research effort has raced to provide detailed characterizations to aid design insight. However due to the similarity between the filament and its surroundings and the virtually inaccessible length scales characterizations have required prohibitive experimental effort Waser R et al. 2007 6 11 833 40 Yang J J et al. 2013 8 1 13 24 Waser R et al. Redox based resistive switching memories nanoionic mechanisms prospects and challenges 2009 21 25 26 2632 63 Larentis S et al. Resistive switching by voltage driven ion migration in bipolar RRAM Part II Modeling 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 and Kwon D H et al. Atomic structure of conducting nanofilaments in TiOresistive switching memory 2010 5 2 148 53 .

The challenge is increased by the importance of thermal behavior which is particularly difficult to measure at such small length and time scales Strukov D B et al. 2012 107 509 18 Mickel P R et al. A physical model of switching dynamics in tantalum oxide memristive devices 2013 102 223502 Strukov D B et al. Exponential ionic drift fast switching and low volatility of thin film memristors 2009 94 3 515 9 Lu Y M et al. Impact of Joule heating on the microstructure of nanoscale TiOresistive switching devices 2013 113 16 163703 and Larentis S et al. 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 . Here we derive from first principles and experimentally validate a set of constitutive equations which govern the steady state operation of filamentary memristive devices.

This simple and quantitatively powerful result provides the framework to understand these devices and to predictively tailor their operation. We show that by measuring a single hysteresis loop the constitutive equations analytically determine the four most important physical parameters of the conducting filament composition radius temperature and surrounding thermal resistance across a continuum of resistance states. This technique enables any researcher with a voltage current source meter to easily measure the internal structure and behavior of the device in response to experimentation. Furthermore these equations provide design rules and operational guidelines while describing limiting behavior for a broad range of relevant parameters and phenomena such as power requirements scaling limits number of bits per device and multiple filament detection.

Canonical memristive systems as predicted by Chua 1971 September 18 5 507 19 modify their resistance state according to the history of applied voltage flux resulting in a smoothly varying pinched I V hysteresis loop see inset of . However memristors based on nanoscale conducting filaments seldom display this canonical curvature suggesting they are governed by more sophisticated physics. Thermal activation is widely speculated to be central to the switching process where beyond a critical temperature T competing dynamics act to redefine the radius and or composition of the filament. Considering this the onset of switching in a hysteresis curve may be interpreted as the point where diffusion switching is thermally activated A in . Under this framework decreasing power would lower temperature below T thereby halting switching and producing the experimentally observed sharp I V end points which are observed experimentally but absent in classical memristors see points B and C in .

Perhaps even more interesting is that these sharp IV end points can exist at all points throughout the switching process. shows hysteresis curves where the resistive switching was current limited for ON switching and voltage limited for OFF switching. The different I V end points points B and C apply significantly different Joule heat doses however both hysteresis loops exhibit equally sharp transitions strongly implying that T Tat each point. This suggests the presence of rich thermal physics which provides a self limiting unidentified negative feedback mechanism that keeps the system on the edge of thermal activation regardless of the total power dissipation in the device.

To gain further insight into the governing thermal physics and explore this phenomenon we developed a first principles heat flow model. In steady state Joule heat is generated uniformly in a cylindrical conducting filament and flows out both vertically through the electrodes and radially through the surrounding oxide Q IV Q Q see .

In steady state Joule heat is generated uniformly in a cylindrical conducting filament and flows out both vertically through the electrodes and radially through the surrounding oxide Q IV Q Qr. Integrating vertical heat determines Q but requires knowledge of the temperature profile within the filament. Solving the heat equation in cylindrical coordinates as a function of radius r Incropera F P Fundamentals of Heat and Mass Transfer 6th ed. 2002 John Wiley Sons and with uniform heat generation gives the following 

With Qand Qknown Qcan be used to determine the radial surface temperature via a radial thermal resistance T T QR. Defining ras the radius where T T Rmay be calculated as R ln r r 2 dk where dand kare the thickness and thermal conductivity of the oxide respectively.

This simplification has important physical significance. In calculating Rwe have ignored vertical heat flow in the surrounding oxide and determining the value of ris difficult. However this simplification makes the functional form of Rand choice of rirrelevant as they fall out of the equation completely.

Thus by comparing the total Joule heat generation to the circumflex over z heat flow through the electrodes we determined the radial surface temperature Tof the conducting filament to be represented by Eq. 6 .

It is widely believed speculated that ON switching lowering resistance is mediated by filament radius increases see e.g. Yang J J et al. 2013 8 1 13 24 Waser R et al. 2009 21 25 26 2632 63 and Larentis S et al. 2012 September 59 9 2468 75 . Considering this the negative sign in Eq. 6 reveals the temperature limiting mechanism as the filament radius increases the temperature drops. The specific physical mechanism is surprisingly simple because core temperatures increase with filament radius and heat transfer is proportional to T vertical heat flow increases with radius faster than the uniform heat generation. As a result less heat flows radially and the surface temperature decreases. However ON switching is only half of the story.

Interrupting OFF switching increasing resistance at any point in the switching process produces similarly sharp non Chuan I V end points again suggesting that an unidentified negative feedback keeps the system s temperature balanced at the edge of thermal activation. Considering Eq. 6 this experimental observation rules out filament radius changes as an OFF switching mechanism. Decreasing rincreases temperature resulting in positive feedback which would cause the temperature to diverge rather than self limit as experimentally observed. It is highly unlikely that parameters such as the electrode or oxide thickness change during switching therefore Eq. 6 strongly suggests that changes in conductivity or equivalently vacancy concentration provide the self regulation of temperature and control OFF switching as lowering a directly lowers T.

To prove these hypotheses we must experimentally show that temperature decreases with increasing filament radius and decreasing filament conductivity a daunting task as few if any experimental methods capable of measuring the temperature of a nanoscale filament exist and current microscopy techniques provide only a single snapshot of filament geometry and composition. However rewriting Eq. 6 as a set of constitutive equations defining the system s response to power dissipation provides a direct test of these hypotheses 

Only a single hysteresis loop is shown however this technique has successfully described a diverse set of samples including a variety of device structures oxide thicknesses electrode materials growth chambers and targets and devices sizes. Importantly the physical fitting parameters were found to all have quite reasonable ranges over our set of test devices 8.5 nm

Both the simplicity and quantitative power of the constitutive equations merit further discussion. Eqs. 7a 7b analytically determine the arguably four most important physical memristive parameters filament composition radius using and R temperature T and effective surrounding thermal resistance k. As described above determining filament composition and radius are prohibitively difficult r Miao F et al. Anatomy of a nanoscale conduction channel reveals the mechanism of a high performance memristor 2011 December 23 47 5633 40 and Miao F et al. 2012 6 3 2312 8 and require inaccessible experimental instrumentation T k Strukov D B et al. 2012 107 509 18 and Larentis S et al. 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 .

Filament temperature and the thermal resistance of the environment outside of finite element methods such as COMSOL simulations are all but unknown experimentally. In contrast Eqs. 7a 7b achieve a complete characterization of the conducting filament algebraically using a single hysteresis curve. It is now possible for all researchers to rapidly and easily determine the effect of their experiments on the internal structure and behavior of the device.

Next the vacancies have no choice but to flow toward the outer edges of the filament where the concentration is sub saturation provided there is sufficient Joule heating that T T see . This process continues until the power requirements to reach Tdiverge as R R P . During OFF switching V on top electrode vacancy saturation no longer limits ion motion and because Pt has no reservoir of vacancies the filament is quasi uniformly depleted as vacancies leave vertically without replacement from the bottom electrode . This process continues until all vacancies have left and R R. However because OFF states are less resistive than virgin devices it is highly likely that some permanent vacancy locations remain .

Eqs. 7a 7b also determined fundamental operational limits of filamentary memristors and provides quantitative insight into the optimization of device design and operation. As described above the constitutive equations specify maximum and minimum therefore inspecting their analytical form we see that maximum OFF ON ratios may be engineered directly 

A simple demonstration of the design power of these equations is shown in where the influence of individual design parameters on the OFF ON ratio are calculated. It should be noted that the plotted values show the ratio of maximum and minimum resistances and infinite power is required to reach both Rand R however it also true that design parameters are varied individually here and that multidimensional design space could produce even larger OFF ON ratios.

Power requirements are also of salient interest to circuit designers and we note that the memristive constitutive equations presented here provide a framework to analytically calculate and design energy requirements for specific resistive switching ranges R

Additionally though not discussed in detail here Eqs. 7a 7b provide analytical and quantitative insight into multiple material properties and design factors including number of states per device switching voltage ranges read windows the scaling limit effects of fabrication tolerances on device variation and even multiple filament detection.

In conclusion we derived and experimentally verified a set of constitutive equations that govern filamentary memristive switching. These equations identified and explained the self limiting thermal physics which controls both ON and OFF switching. We demonstrated that applying these equations to a single hysteresis loop allows any researcher with a voltage current source meter to fully characterize the internal structure and behavior of the conducting filament including its composition radius surrounding thermal resistance and critical switching temperature. Most importantly these constitutive equations provide a powerful and simple analytical framework with which to easily and accurately characterize and design devices and with which to model their operation.

In this Example we show that in tantalum oxide resistive memories activation power provides a multi level variable for information storage that can be set and read separately from the resistance. These two state variables resistance and activation power can be precisely controlled in two steps 1 the possible activation power states are selected by partially reducing resistance then 2 a subsequent partial increase in resistance specifies the resistance state and the final activation power state. We show that these states can be precisely written and read electrically making this approach potentially amenable for ultra high density memories. We provide a theoretical explanation for information storage and retrieval from activation power and experimentally demonstrate information storage in a third dimension related to the change in activation power with resistance.

Moore s law the exponential increase in transistor density has been the driving force for an immense increase in memory density over the past decades Moore G E Cramming more components onto integrated circuits 1998 January 86 1 82 5 but it has become increasingly difficult to continue leading to a broad search for new approaches Dieny B et al. 2013 46 7 070301 Ielmini D 2009 September July 86 7 9 1870 5 and Burr G W 2008 July 52 4.5 449 64 .

Resistive memories RRAM are among the leading candidates to replace transistors for memory applications in part due to their ability to store information within a range of resistances instead of a digital ON or OFF Yang J J et al. 2013 January 8 13 24 Kim H et al. 2010 12 held on 3 5 Feb. 2010 in Berkeley Calif. pp. 1 6 and Manem H et al. 2011 held on 15 18 May 2011 in Rio de Janeiro pp. 2938 41 . The resistances are typically believed to change by varying either the radius or conductivity of a conducting filament Nardi F et al. Resistive switching by voltage driven ion migration in bipolar RRAM Part I Experimental study 2012 September 59 9 2461 7 Mickel P R et al. 2013 102 223502 and Miao F et al. 2012 6 3 2312 8 .

We show that by using partial SET followed by partial RESET operations degenerate resistances can be created such that information can be stored in multiple states corresponding to the same resistance. Previous observations of degeneracy in resistive switching are very few and have been limited to only a single level of degeneracy. Devices using two inert electrodes were able to create a vertical concentration gradient to provide a single level of degeneracy for storage Balatti S et al. Multiple memory states in resistive switching devices through controlled size and orientation of the conductive filament 2013 25 1474 8 . Additionally a second turn on voltage has been demonstrated for a single resistance value Nardi F et al. 2012 September 59 9 2461 7 but without a discussion of the potential for information storage.

Since RRAM requires Joule heating for thermal activation Strukov D B et al. 2012 107 509 18 and Larentis S et al. 2011 July 88 7 1119 23 the electrical power required to reach that activation threshold provides a separate state variable apart from resistance to store information. We experimentally demonstrate a simple electrical method for storing and extracting multiple activation power states at single resistance values. No changes are required to device design and in principle storing and extracting information in activation power states can be done simply. To compete with contemporary storage class memory however new analog circuits will need to be developed to ensure for example speed and small footprint. Here we focus on explaining information storage using multiple dimensions i.e. resistance and power and on demonstrating that in principle it can be used to store a very large number of states per device.

For experimental demonstration we used standard CMOS compatible tantalum oxide metal insulator metal devices Lohn A J et al. 2013 103 063502 and Lohn A J et al. 2013 58 5 59 65 with a reactive tantalum electrode an inert titanium nitride electrode and a 10 nm tantalum oxide layer deposited by feedback controlled reactive sputtering Stevens J E et al. Reactive sputtering of substoichiometric TaOfor resistive memory applications 2014 March April 32 2 021501 .

During the SET process the radius of the conducting filament increases once the oxygen vacancies reach a saturation concentration. Further increases occur once the outer edge of the filament reaches the activation temperature and vacancies there become mobile enough to enter. As a result the conductivity within the filament is approximately uniform throughout and the SET voltage is the voltage required to achieve the activation temperature at the edge of the filament where new vacancies can enter. In a subsequent negative polarity step vacancy motion is not limited by saturation so vacancies can leave from any portion of the filament that reaches the activation temperature. This will occur at the center of the filament first and at a lower voltage than is required to reach activation at the filament edge.

Equations given in Larentis S et al. 2011 88 1119 23 approximate the temperature profile within a cylindrical filament with uniform conductivity. Equations representing these temperature profiles are as follows 

Equating the temperature at the edge SET process and Eq. 11 to the temperature at the center READ process and Eqs. 12a 12b relates the SET and READ voltages. Equating Eq. 11 and Eq. 12b and then grouping terms gave the following equations 

Eq. 14 relates the voltage required to increase resistance to the voltage required to decrease the resistance for a cylindrical filament with uniform conductivity. For a filament that has already been partially depleted the two values will be more similar due to negative feedback during the initial stages of OFF switching. Additionally the temperature profile within the filament that was used in the preceding derivation ignores heat loss through the electrodes causing an overestimate of the peak temperature at the center. Therefore the difference between SET and READ voltages in Eq. 14 represents a maximum difference and should be thought of as limiting behavior that provides intuition in understanding the discrepancy between read and write.

From a physical point of view the activation power and resistance are controlled by the radius and conductivity of the conducting filament Mickel P R et al. Isothermal switching and detailed filament evolution in memristive systems 2014 26 4486 90 . The process is described in detail in three equivalent ways in . The subfigures in the left column i iii show the structure of the conducting filament illustrating its radius and vacancy concentration effectively conductivity . The subfigures in the middle column iv vi show the same changes on a current voltage hysteresis loop. The subfigures in the right column vii ix show the same current voltage data mapped into power resistance coordinates which are the two dimensions where information is stored.

The electrical data can be directly converted between current voltage and power resistance coordinates via the following equations Eq. 15a and Eq. 15b . The physical process occurring within the device during switching is described in Mickel P R et al. 2014 26 4486 90 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

ON switching resistance decrease proceeds in two stages as follows. First applying a positive current inert electrode grounded decreases resistance by injecting oxygen vacancies from the reactive electrode into a localized conducting filament i iv vii . Next once the injected vacancies reach a saturation concentration further increases in positive current cause the radius of the filament to increase ii v viii because injected vacancies cannot exist above saturation. To continue increasing the radius more power must be supplied. In this way a desired filament radius can be specified by choosing a power limit. In practice the power is typically limited by selecting a current limit for the electrical supply.

Once the radius is set the conductivity can be set by applying the opposite polarity negative on reactive electrode to draw oxygen vacancies back into the reactive electrode thereby increasing resistance iii vi ix . To continue decreasing conductivity more power must be supplied. In that way the final conductivity can be specified by selecting a power limit. In practice the power is typically limited by setting a voltage limit. The ability to limit power by specifying a maximum voltage when resistance is increasing and a maximum current when resistance is decreasing can be seen from the basic power relations and considering how the power supplied changes with changing resistance Power Eq. 16 .

This two step process positive current then negative voltage can be used to set a desired resistance in many different degenerate radius conductivity combinations. For example starting with a large current limit then reversing polarity and using a large voltage limit will create a conducting filament with a large radius but small conductivity. The device will therefore have an intermediate resistance value. But that same resistance could alternatively be achieved by a conducting filament with a small radius and large conductivity. To create the latter filament one would use a small positive current to set a small radius then use a small negative voltage to only reduce the conductivity by a small amount. These two configurations have the same resistance but are fundamentally different.

It is difficult to directly measure the composition of the nanoscale filaments embedded in electronic devices but fortunately the electrical behavior allows an immediate test for degenerate configurations. Using the physical description outlined above a filament with a larger radius allows more heat to escape through the electrodes than a smaller filament of the same resistance. This simplified description predicts that large radius devices will require more power to initiate switching. Since the electrical resistance and electrical power are trivial to measure they provide an electrical method to verify the existence of degenerate resistance states.

These power related effects can be seen in a current voltage hysteresis loop but they are much more clearly observed if that same data is transformed into power and resistance coordinates. Experimental data showing degenerate resistances is shown in in power resistance coordinates calculated using Eq. 16. For comparison to current voltage data the bottom left kink labeled Read 3 corresponds to 0.55V and 1.83 mA. Prior to each of the curves shown the device was set to a specified degenerate resistance value by applying a controlled positive current followed by a controlled negative voltage. The intersections of the dotted lines show the resistance and power at the end of the SET process. This is the location of the stored data in both power and resistance dimensions. It is clear from that these set points are degenerate in both resistance and power since there are two distinct power configurations for each resistance and there are two distinct resistances for each power.

In order to detect the configuration of the filament the electrical power delivered to the device was progressively incremented while monitoring the resistance moving upward along the solid curves . Once the activating power is reached the resistance starts to change the curve moves to the right . The kink in the curve is the READ location of the stored data. As seen in the locations of the kinks in the READ step are precise reproductions of the SET points intersections of the dotted lines . The exception is the top left point where the READ curve activates at too low a power and departs gradually instead of abruptly like the others. This effect will be discussed later.

In only four distinct states are shown but both the resistance and power states can be set to a continuum of values. A schematic illustration of the range of possible degenerate values is shown in and an experimental demonstration is shown in . In the experimental demonstration each point is set by pulses in the positive direction followed by pulses in the negative direction as described above. For the purpose of visual clarity in our experimental demonstration we only show approximately 100 states but it is apparent from that much larger state densities are possible. Even at this state density per dimension this single device addresses approximately seven 7 digital bits i.e. 2states .

As depicted in the READ points location of the kinks are very good reproductions of the SET points intersections of dotted lines indicating that high densities of information storage may be possible. The density of digital bits that can be stored will likely be limited by noise in both the reading and writing steps. The writing noise can be addressed through closed loop state setting at expense of speed if large densities are desired but the reading noise is more difficult to control Ambrogio S et al. Understanding switching variability and random telegraph noise in resistive RAM 9 11 Dec. 2013 in Washington D.C. pp. 31.5.1 31.5.4 Terai Metal. Memory state dependence of random telegraph noise of TaO Tistack ReRAM 2010 November 31 11 1302 4 and Puglisi F M et al. Random telegraph signal noise properties of HfOx RRAM in high resistive state . held on 17 21 September 2012 in Bordeaux France pp. 274 7 .

Aside from noise effects there can be a discrepancy between the SET and READ points in the high power low resistance regime top left in the . The early activation and more gradual resistance change is due to the shape of the thermal profile within the filament and can be described as follows. For a cylindrical filament the temperature is highest in the center so a small segment of the cylinder near the center will become activated prematurely allowing for early onset of resistance change. Since only a fraction of the filament is thermally activated the resistance changes gradually.

The following equation relating the SET and READ voltages required to reach thermal activation for a cylindrical filament with uniform conductivity provides qualitative insight 

Inspection of Eq. 14 shows that if the following inequality in Eq. 17 holds then the READ voltage reduces to the SET voltage.

In our devices this simplifying approximation is not justified for all rbut it may be possible to alter design to meet this criterion. The most convenient approach to do so involves increasing the thermal resistance of the electrode. It should be noted that the above relation and simplifying assumption were derived by modeling the thermal resistance with kand das continuum parameters to define electrode thermal resistance but the vertical thermal resistance itself is the parameter of interest and may be dominated by interface and geometric spreading effects.

Even without device redesign it is still possible to read and write at the same activation power over a wide range. The SET READ discrepancy is due to a temperature profile that peaks in the center but the temperature profile in the device spontaneously flattens during OFF switching due to the following negative feedback process. In the first stages of OFF switching the temperature is highest at the center so the electrical conductivity is reduced there first. Current density is then decreased in the central region causing core temperature to drop and surrounding temperature to rise. This negative feedback process continues with increased switching naturally producing a conductivity profile that gives a flattened temperature profile. For a device with a flattened temperature profile the entire filament activates simultaneously just as it does for a small radius filament see Eq. 14 .

Devices with low activation power points correspond to small radii which when considering the inequality expressed in Eq. 14 explains why the two low power points in activate abruptly at exactly the SET power. The two high power points correspond to large radii where Eq. 14 is not justified so the SET and READ powers are not necessarily identical but as can be seen in in the high resistance case top right they are the same despite the large radius. That is because during the previous two step SET process the high resistance case underwent the negative feedback process described above to give a flattened temperature profile. This is an example of using electrical control to flatten the temperature profile in order to achieve abrupt switching at exactly the SET voltage. Using this technique over a reduced range of states the SET and READ powers will be identical with abrupt transitions in the activation power resistance space even without the modification for increased vertical thermal resistance.

Interestingly the gradual resistance change in the high power low resistance top left case in hints at the existence of a third dimension for information storage. The slope that is traversed through power resistance space upon activation can be a tunable parameter apart from activation power and resistance themselves. For this third dimension the SET process requires an additional step.

Once the device has been set to a two dimensional state applying a small positive polarity power that is only sufficient to activate the filament locally in the center will increase the conductivity of the filament in the center leaving the surrounding regions unchanged. The conductivity of this inner filament can then be reduced with a small negative polarity power. By providing an oscillating signal of partial ON and OFF half cycles it is possible to create a gradient of conductivities instead of a uniform cylindrical geometry as discussed previously.

Various conductivity profiles can be created to have the same resistance and activation power states but with non cylindrical conductivity profiles. Once sufficient electrical power is supplied their resistance will change but so will their conductivity profile. As their conductivity profile changes so will their activation power. Changes in the activation power during switching cause these different configurations to follow different paths through resistance power space that can be detected separately from the resistance and activation power themselves.

An experimental example of degeneracy in both power and resistance is depicted schematically in and experimentally in where a device was configured to have the same activation power and resistance but different paths through power resistance space. Equivalently the state variables can be thought of as conductivity radius and slope of the filament s conductivity profile. Since the switching begins at the same resistance and power point the varied slopes represent a third dimension for information storage. It is easy to envision that controlling the curvature or other aspects of the path could present still additional dimensions that can all be SET and READ electrically.

For a quasi uniform conductivity the radial temperature profile of a filament may be approximated as follows 

The upper inset of shows simulated P R switching curves for the conductivity profiles shown in the lower inset of . The simulated switching curves are in strong qualitative agreement with the experimental switching curves with quantitatively similar resistances activation points and slopes. This provided compelling support that the experimental P R switching curves are the result of tunable radial conductivity profiles.

Finally it is important to discuss the implications of designing creating specific conductivity profiles in memristive devices. Multi bit information storage is one of the most intriguing applications for resistive switching Yu S et al. Investigating the switching dynamics and multilevel capability of bipolar metal oxide resistive switching memory 2011 98 103514 . However it requires fine tune control of resistive switching which can be challenging. Switching curve in shows strong sensitivity to negative polarity power where resistance values rise quickly once the activating power dose is applied. As seen a small noise signal in the applied power Presults in a very large change in resistance. In contrast by ensuring a sloped P R trajectory by designing radial conductivity profiles such as 2 and 3 in the lower inset of the noise fluctuations required to give the same spurious R are substantially increased see Pand Pin .

Control over conductivity profiles also allow power thresholds to be proactively set. This ability could lead to resilience to half select write errors where voltages currents of neighboring devices in crossbar arrays are exposed to signals which gradual change their state over time Lohn A J et al. 2014 115 234507 . Alternatively this functionality could also be used to intentionally set low or high power thresholds allowing different devices to emulate short term and long term memory for neuromorphic computation Chang T et al. Short term memory to long term memory transition in a nanoscale memristor 2011 5 9 7669 76 and Indiveri G et al. Integration of nanoscale memristor synapses in neuromorphic computing architectures 2013 24 38 384010 .

The ability to store and retrieve information in activation power as well as resistance was demonstrated experimentally and explained theoretically. The approach for writing and reading these variables requires only two steps to achieve the two dimensions. A positive polarity step was used to set the filament radius effectively determining the power state and a negative polarity step was used to set the filament conductivity effectively determining the resistance state . Storage in this multi dimensional information space drastically increases the available state density of these devices without changes in device design.

All publications patents and patent applications including U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 866 690 filed Aug. 16 2013 mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

