---

title: Context based group suggestion and creation
abstract: A system and method for providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user. A connection application receives first user and second user activity on the third-party website responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the third-party website. The connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third-party website and determines the context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the third-party website. The connection application identifies a group that the first user created on the social network based on the identified context and provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614920&OS=09614920&RS=09614920
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09614920
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 911 981 filed Dec. 4 2013 and entitled Context Based Group Suggestion and Creation which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The specification relates to generating a suggestion. In particular the specification relates to providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user.

Users frequently generate profiles on a variety of websites using different usernames. When the usernames are not intuitive variations of a user s legal name it can be difficult for friends to identify those users. In addition users can cultivate specific interests on certain websites that might be difficult to detect. Sometimes a user s profile page on a social network will list usernames on other websites. However this is not always the case and it presumes that other users are willing to go to the trouble of researching the user.

In some embodiments the specification describes a computer implemented method comprising registering a first user and a second user by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials responsive to the first party and the second user authenticating on a third party website using their login credentials receiving first user and second user activity on the third party website identifying an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website determining a context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website identifying a group that the first user created on the social network based on the context and providing a suggestion that the first user add the second user to the group.

In some embodiments the specification describes a system comprising one or more processors and a memory storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the system to register a first user and a second user by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials responsive to the first party and the second user authenticating on a third party website using their login credentials receive first user and second user activity on the third party website identify an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website determine a context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website identify a group that the first user created on the social network based on the context and provide a suggestion that the first user add the second user to the group.

In some embodiments the operations further include receiving acceptance of the suggestion that the first user add the second user to the group determining whether the second user has a second group with the context and responsive to the second user having a second group with the context adding the first user to the second group. In some embodiments the group is a second group and the operations further include identifying a first group that the first user added the second user to on the social network. The operations further include determining whether the first user and second user satisfied a threshold number of interactions on the third party website.

In some embodiments the features further include the social network including a first social network and the third party website including a second social network. In some embodiments the features further include the context for the interaction on the third party website being determined from a subject of the third party website. In some embodiments the features further include the suggestion being sent via the social network and the second user is automatically added to the group. In some embodiments the features further include the interaction on the third party website being at least one of an indication of approval of an action associated with the first user a comment from the second user on an action performed by the first user and a reciprocal electronic message between the first and second users.

The specification describes a connection application providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user which advantageously optimizes continued social interaction between the users of a social network and allows for optimized discovery of common interests. The connection application determines a context associated with an interaction between the two users and provides a suggestion to the first user to add the second user to a social group of the first user based on the context of that interaction.

The specification describes a connection application for providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user.

In some embodiments the connection application registers a first user and a second user on a third party website by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials. The connection application receives first user and second user activity on the third party website responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the third party website. The connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website and determines the context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website. The connection application identifies a group that the first user created on the social network based on the identified context. The connection application provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group.

In other embodiments the connection application registers a first user and a second user by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials from a first social network. The connection application identifies a first group that the first user added the second user to on the first social network. The connection application receives first user and second user activity on a second social network responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the second social network using the login credentials. The connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the second social network and determines the context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the second social network. The connection application identifies a second group that the first user created on the first social network based on the identified context. The connection application provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group.

The network may be a conventional type network wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations for example a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In some embodiments the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some other embodiments the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data for example via SMS MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail etc. While only one network is illustrated persons with ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any number of networks may be coupled to the above mentioned entities.

In some embodiments a connection application may be operable on the social network server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server can be a hardware server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. The social network server sends and receives data to and from one or more of the user devices and the third party server via the network . The social network server also includes a social network application not pictured that can be part of the connection application or a standalone application. A social network can be any type of social structure where the users are connected by a common feature. The common feature includes relationships connections e.g. friendship family work an interest etc. The common features are provided by one or more social networking systems such as those included in the architecture including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph. In some examples the social graph can reflect a mapping of these users and how they are related. Furthermore it should be understood that the social network server may be representative of one social network and that there may be multiple social networks coupled to the network each having its own server application and social graph. For example a first social network may be more directed to business networking a second may be more directed to or centered on academics a third may be more directed to local business a fourth is directed to dating and others are of general interest or a specific focus.

In some embodiments a snippet can be stored on a third party server which is communicatively connected to the network via signal line . The third party server includes an application for generating a third party website not shown . The snippet can be code or routines configured to enable the software included in the third party server to communicate with the connection application so that the software can use the service provided by the connection application . For example the snippet communicates with the connection application to generate an add this user icon or button for providing a suggestion to a first user to add a second user to a group of the first user. The third party website can be catering to specific services such as online multi player games fitness calorie counter reviews traveling etc. The users visiting the third party website or users authenticated through the social network server can send messages to their connections i.e. user recipients within their respective social networks about at least one aspect of the service offered by the third party website hosted by the third party website. For example an authenticated user sends messages such as invitations turn based notifications challenge notification etc. through a turn based multiplayer game website to recipients on the social network with whom the sender is connected. In some embodiments the snippet includes HyperText Markup Language code HTML code that can be configured to communicate with the connection application to exchange data information and or commands. In some other embodiments the snippet includes code from a group of C C Java CSS and PHP. Furthermore while only one snippet is shown in the third party server the third party server could include one or more snippets . Similarly while only one third party server is shown the system can include one or more third party servers .

The user devices in are used by way of example. Although only two user devices are illustrated persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any numbers of user devices are available to any number of users . The users interact with the user devices . In some embodiments the connection application may be stored on the user device which is connected to the network via signal line . In some other embodiments the connection application can be split into some components that are stored on the user device and some components that are stored on the social network server . For example the connection application on the social network can store user information and receive messages and the connection application on the user device is a thin client application for displaying the messages.

The user device can be any computing device that includes a memory and a processor. For example the user device can be a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto a device that is worn by the user e.g. a smart watch part of a clip or part of jewelry or any other electronic device capable of accessing the network etc.

The connection application can be software including routines for providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user. In some embodiments the connection application can be implemented using hardware including a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In other embodiments the connection application can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the connection application registers a first user and a second user on a third party website by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials. The connection application receives first user and second user activity on the third party website responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the third party website. The connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website and determines the context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website. The connection application identifies a group that the first user created on the social network based on the identified context. The connection application provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group.

In other embodiments the connection application registers a first user and a second user by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials from a first social network. The connection application identifies a first group that the first user added the second user to on the first social network. The connection application receives first user and second user activity on a second social network responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the second social network using the login credentials. The connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the second social network and determines the context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the second social network. The connection application identifies a second group that the first user created on the first social network based on the identified context. The connection application provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group. The connection application is described in further detail below with reference to .

Referring now to a block diagram of a computing device is illustrated that includes a processor a memory a communication unit and a storage device according to some examples. The components of the computing device are communicatively coupled by a bus . The computing device can be a social network server or a user device .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus via signal line for communication with the other components. Processor may process data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processing capability may be limited to supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images. The processing capability might be enough to perform more complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling. It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory is coupled to the bus via signal line for communication with the other components. The instructions and or data may include code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In one embodiment the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media for example a disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication unit transmits and receives data to and from at least one of the user device and the social network server depending upon where the connection application is stored. The communication unit is coupled to the bus via signal line . In some embodiments the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the network or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes a USB SD CAT 5 or similar port for wired communication with the user device . In some other embodiments the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver for exchanging data with the user device or any other communication channel using one or more wireless communication methods such as IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 BLUETOOTH or another suitable wireless communication method.

In some embodiments the communication unit includes a cellular communications transceiver for sending and receiving data over a cellular communications network such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail or another suitable type of electronic communication. In some other embodiments the communication unit includes a wired port and a wireless transceiver. The communication unit also provides other conventional connections to the network for distribution of files and or media objects using standard network protocols such as TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP as will be understood to those skilled in the art.

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that temporarily stores data used by the connection application for example a cache. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In some embodiments the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis. In the illustrated embodiment the storage device is communicatively coupled by the bus for communication with the other components of the computing device via signal line . Although only one storage device is shown in multiple storage devices may be included. In another embodiment the storage device may not be included in the computing device and can be communicatively coupled to the computing device via the network .

In some embodiments the storage device stores interactions of users of the social network. In some embodiments the storage device stores interactions of users of third party websites. In some embodiments the storage device stores the message sent by a sender to one or more user recipients on the social network. For example the request can be a game invitation a review a status update etc. In some embodiments the storage device stores data including daily habits routines and activities determined for the one or more users on the social network. In some embodiments the storage device stores the data including groups of context and real time context associated with the one or more users. The data stored in the storage device is described below in more detail. In some embodiments the storage device may store other data for providing the functionality described herein.

In some embodiments the connection application includes a controller a social network engine an interaction module a context engine a suggestion module and a user interface engine .

The controller can be software including routines for receiving data via the communication unit routing the data to the appropriate engine or module and transmitting responses from the engine or module to the communication unit for transmission to the user device or the social network server . In some embodiments the controller can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for handling communications between the connection application and other components of the computing device . In some other embodiments the controller can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either of the embodiments the controller may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In some embodiments the controller identifies the type of data being received and transmits the data to the appropriate engine or module of the connection application . For example the controller receives information from the social network server for rendering a user interface of the social network and transmits the information to the user interface engine . In some other embodiments the controller receives user inputs and user actions submitted by the user from the user device . The controller sends the user actions and the user inputs to the appropriate engine or module of the connection application .

In some embodiments the controller receives information from other components of the connection application and transmits the information to the appropriate component in the system via the communication unit . For example the controller receives graphical data for generating a user interface displaying a message from the user interface engine . The controller transmits the graphical data associated with displaying the message to a display device not shown that is part of the user device . In another example the controller receives information including context data associated with an interaction between users from the context engine . The controller transmits the information including context data to the suggestion module for providing a group suggestion to the user.

In some embodiments the controller receives data from components of the connection application and stores the data in the storage device . For example the controller receives a data including context associated interactions between users from the context engine and stores them in the storage device . In some other embodiments the controller retrieves data from the storage device and sends the data to other components of the connection application . For example the controller retrieves one or more messages from the storage device and transmits them to the suggestion module for providing group suggestions to users.

The social network engine can be software including routines for generating and managing a social network. In some embodiments the social network engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating and managing a social network. In some other embodiments the social network engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either of the embodiments the social network engine can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the controller the user interface engine and other components of the connection application via signal line .

A social network can be a type of social structure where the relationships between the users are included in a social graph. In some embodiments the social graph includes a social affinity between users. For example when a first user follows a second user they have a first degree relationship. When the second user follows a third user that the first user does not follow the first user has a second degree relationship with the third user. The lower the degree of separation between users the more they share social affinity. In some embodiments social affinity is also a measure of how many people are connected between users. For example two users that are associated with the same five people could have a higher affinity than two users that are both associated with only one person.

In some embodiments users are connected in the social network by being friends. For example users A and B can have reciprocal friendships with each other. In other embodiments the relationships can be single directional for example when user A chooses to followed updates posted by user B. If user B chooses to follow user A the relationship can be described as bi directional or multi directional. User B can choose to share updates with the public which results in user A being able to view the update or user B can share the updates with only people that user B follows. In some embodiments these relationships can be divided into groups on the social network based on context. Some areas of this disclosure refer to such groups as social groups. The groups can be used by the user to share information or send messages within the social network that is directed to that group. For example user A can create an acquaintance group of users that user A wants to view updates from but that user A does not know very well. In another example user A can create a group of students taking the same class e.g. a study group or people helpful for networking. In such examples user A can use the created group to share information within or send messages directly to the members of the group.

The social network engine manages the social network by handling registration of users publication of content e.g. posts comments photos links check ins etc. hosting multi user communication sessions managing of groups managing different sharing levels updating the social graph etc. The social network engine registers a user by receiving information such as a username and password and generates a user profile that is associated with the user and stored as part of the social graph. In one embodiment the user profile includes additional information about the user including interests e.g. soccer reading food subscriptions gaming etc. activities e.g. search history indications of approval posts comments multi player online gaming etc. work e.g. doctor engineer lawyer research scientist etc. education e.g. engineering medicine law business etc. and demographics e.g. age ethnicity location etc. etc. The social network engine stores the user profile in the storage device .

In some embodiments the social network engine receives a request including login information for authentication. For example the social network engine receives a login request including a username and password from a user for logging into a social network. The social network engine identifies the requesting user based on the login information associated with the login. In some other embodiments the social network engine communicates with the snippet stored in the third party server and authenticates the user logging into the third party website using the same credentials. In some embodiments the social network engine receives Application Programming Interface API requests generated by the snippet stored on the third party server . The API requests retrieve information about the user for e.g. profile photo and name and connect the user with his or her social connections on the social network. In some other embodiments the social network engine receives a message from the snippet on the third party server . The message is sent to specific recipients on the social network from a sender logged into the third party website. For example a sender is connected to the specific recipients on the social network and sends an in game message from a turn based multiplayer website. The social network engine transmits instructions to the user interface engine to generate a user interface that includes information associated with the message including a picture or a thumbnail a title and a body of the message.

In some embodiments the social network engine transmits messages received from a sender to the context engine . In some other embodiments the social network engine stores the messages in the storage device .

The interaction module can be software including routines for identifying interactions between one or more users of a social network. In some embodiments the interaction module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for identifying interactions between one or more users of a social network. In some other embodiments the interaction module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either of the embodiments the interaction module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the social network engine the channel suggestion module and other components of the connection application via signal line .

In some embodiments the interaction module identifies an interaction between two or more users of a social network. In some embodiments the interaction module identifies an interaction between two or more users on a third party website. In some embodiments the interaction module identifies an interaction between a first user and a second user on a third party website. In some embodiments the first user and the second user are registered on or belong to a third party website. The interaction module identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website. The interaction can be a message sent from one user to another. The interaction can also be exchange of information from one user to another. The interaction can also be a communication from one user to another. In some embodiments the interaction is a direct interaction. In other embodiments the interaction is an indirect interaction. In some embodiments the interaction is an online social interaction. For example user A may send user B a message through electronic communication such as e mail. The interaction module identifies that message exchange as an interaction between user A and user B. In some embodiments the interactions identified by the interaction module are stored in the storage device . In some embodiments the interactions identified by the interaction module are sent to the context engine for further processing.

In some embodiments the interaction module identifies an interaction between a first user of a first social network and a second user of the first social network on a second social network. For example user A and user B belongs to social network A. User A and user B perform an interaction with each other on a second social network. For example the second social network can be a website or social network for sharing commentary about various stores restaurants or services. In such example user A posts a comment about a particular restaurant and user B comments on user A s post. This exchange between user A and user B can be identified by the interaction module as an interaction between user A and user B. In some embodiments the interactions identified by the interaction module are stored in the storage device . In some embodiments the interactions identified by the interaction module are sent to the context engine for further processing.

The context engine can be software including routines for determining context of the interaction between the one or more users of the social network. In some embodiments the context engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining context of the interaction between the one or more users of the social network. In some other embodiments the context engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either of the embodiments the context engine can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the social network engine the suggestion module and other components of the connection application via signal line .

In some embodiments the context engine receives data including an identified interaction between two or more users and determines context relating to the identified interaction identified by the interaction module . In some embodiments the context engine receives data including an identified interaction between the first user and the second user and determines context relating to the identified interaction identified by the interaction module .

In some embodiments the context engine analyzes data and or content in the identified interaction and determines the context of the interaction based on the analysis. For example the context engine identifies from key words in the interaction that the interaction related to kids. One skilled in the art will recognize that many algorithms and methods can be used in determining user context.

In some instances the context engine communicates with the social network engine to identify a group created by a user in a social network that is associated with specific context. For example based on information e.g. content in the interaction received from the social network engine the context engine identifies a creativity for kids community in a social network created by Bill. In some instances the context engine identifies same context for interactions associated with a first user and a second user and identifies a group associated with the same context. The group is created by the first user in a social network. A suggestion may be made to the first user to add the second user to the identified group. Providing a suggestion based on a set of criteria will be described in detail below with reference to the suggestion module .

The suggestion module can be software including routines for providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user. In some embodiments the suggestion module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user. In some other embodiments the suggestion module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either of the embodiments the suggestion module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the social network engine interaction module the context engine and other components of the connection application via signal line .

In some embodiments the suggestion module communicates with the interaction module and context engine to prove group suggestions to users. In some embodiments suggestion module provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group. For example the suggestion module identifies that user A has created a modern art group and provides a suggestion to user A that user A add user B to the modern art group of user A. In some embodiments the suggestion module provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group. For example the context engine determines that user A has created a food lovers group and based on the determination that the context of the interaction was about food the suggestion module provides a suggestion to user A that user A add user B to user A s food lovers group.

The user interface engine can be software including routines for generating graphical data for generating group suggestions to users. In some embodiments the user interface engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating group suggestions to users. In some other embodiments the user interface engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either of the embodiments the user interface engine can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the connection application via signal line .

In some embodiments the user interface engine receives instructions from the social network engine to generate graphical data that depicts a user interface for displaying a suggestion to a first user. The suggestion includes the user identifier of another user a suggestion to add that user to a group of the first user and an option or link to enable to addition of the other user to the first user s group. In some other embodiments the user interface engine generates graphical data for social network content based at least in part on instructions from the social network engine . For example the user interface engine generates graphical data for displaying a user profile photo name text messages videos etc. The user interface engine sends the graphical data to an application e.g. a browser in the user device via the communication unit causing the application to display the data in a user interface. In some embodiments the user interface engine generates graphical data to display the suggestion within the social network content.

Turning now to one example of a graphical representation of a user interface for providing a suggestion to a first user about adding a second user to a social group of the first user based at least in part on the context of an interaction between the first user and the second user. The user interface displays a web page of a social network that the user Bill is a member. The user interface includes a suggestion and option or link to add user Sara to user a group that user Bill has created.

The connection application as described above includes a social network module an interaction module a context engine and a suggestion module . In some embodiments the social network engine of the connection application registers a first user and a second user by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials to a third party website. For example user A and user B can be members of website A and log in to website A using their login credentials. The interaction module of the connection application receives first user and second user activity on the third party website responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the third party website. For example user A and user B can send messages or upload or exchange pictures through website A. Specifically user A can log into website A and send a message or a picture to user B within the website A. The interaction module of the connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website. For example the interaction module identifies that user A has interacted with user B because user A sent a message to user B. The context engine determines the context of the interaction between the first user and the second user on the third party website. For example based on key words in the message the context engine determines that the message from user A is about modern art museums in the local area. The context engine of the connection application identifies a group that the first user created on the social network based on the identified context and provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group. For example the suggestion module identifies that user A has created a modern art group and provides a suggestion to user A that user A add user B to the modern art group of user A.

In other embodiments the social network engine of the connection application registers a first user and a second user on by providing the first user and the second user with login credentials from a first social network. For example user A and user B are members of social network A and are logged into social network A with their login credentials. In some embodiments the social network engine of the connection application identifies a first group that the first user added the second user to on the first social network. For example the social network engine identifies that user A and user B are connected to each other in social network A and user B belongs to user A s cycling group. The interaction module of the connection application receives first user and second user activity on a second social network responsive to authenticating the first user and the second user on the second social network using the login credentials. For example user A logs on to a another website for example a website that allows users to post comments about restaurants stores or other services and posts a comment about a new restaurant that just opened. The interaction module also determines that user B also posted a comment on the website. Specifically user B adds a comment to user A s post about the restaurant. The interaction module of the connection application identifies an interaction between the first user and the second user on the second social network. For example the interaction module identifies that user B commented on user A s post and determines that user B has had an interaction with user A. The context engine determines the context for the interaction between the first user and the second user on the second social network. For example based on the subject matter of the post the context engine determines that the interaction was related to food. The context engine of the connection application identifies a second group that the first user created on the first social network based on the identified context. The suggestion module provides a suggestion to the first user that the first user add the second user to the group. For example the suggestion module determines that user A has created a food lovers group and based on the determination that the context of the interaction was about food the suggestion module provides a suggestion to user A that user A add user B to user A s food lovers group.

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. For example the present embodiment is described in one embodiment below primarily with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present embodiment applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to some embodiments or an instance means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least some embodiment of the description. The appearances of the phrase in some embodiments in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present embodiment of the specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The specification can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the specification is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the specification as described herein.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the specification has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the specification may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

