---

title: System and method for optimizing utilization of inventory space for dispensable articles
abstract: A system and method for optimizing the utilization of inventory space for articles dispensable from an article dispensing machine is provided. A subset of articles in the article dispensing machine may be targeted for removal for various purposes. Based on a list of the subset of articles, the article dispensing machine may move the subset of articles from a storage unit to a predetermined area, such as a merchandising zone of the storage unit or a separate article removal bin. The subset of articles may be removed from the predetermined area, followed by loading of new articles to the predetermined area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390577&OS=09390577&RS=09390577
owner: REDBOX AUTOMATED RETAIL, LLC
number: 09390577
owner_city: Oakbrook Terrace
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 414 612 filed Mar. 7 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING UTILIZATION OF INVENTORY SPACE FOR DISPENSABLE ARTICLES and is incorporated by reference herein. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 414 612 filed Mar. 7 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING UTILIZATION OF INVENTORY SPACE FOR DISPENSABLE ARTICLES and is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates to a system and method for optimizing utilization of inventory space for articles dispensable from an article dispensing machine. More particularly the invention provides a system and method for managing the removal and loading of articles to a storage unit a merchandising zone and or an article removal bin of the article dispensing machine.

While the invention is often described herein with reference to a digital video disc Blu Ray disc and video game distribution system an application to which the invention is advantageously suited it will be readily apparent that the invention is not limited to that application and can be employed in article dispensing systems used to distribute a wide variety of dispensable articles.

The digital video disc DVD player has been one of the most successful consumer electronics product launches in history. The market for DVD movie video Blu Ray movie video and video game rentals is enormous and growing. Millions of households have acquired DVDs since they were introduced in 1997. In the first quarter of 2003 alone it was estimated that well over three million DVD players were shipped to U.S. retailers.

In 2003 brick and mortar stores dominated the movie video and video game rental landscape in the U.S. Statistics showed that two brick and mortar companies controlled nearly sixty five percent of the home video rental business. One element repeatedly cited for success of certain brick and mortar store video rental franchises was perceived high availability of new video releases. Consumers want entertainment on demand and through stocking multiple units of each new release successful brick and mortar companies meet this consumer demand.

The foregoing indicates that there is a significant market potential for aligning regular routines of consumers e.g. shopping getting coffee or gas or going to a convenience store with their DVD Blu Ray and video game rental activities.

One improved article dispensing machine is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The invention of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention can function as an article dispensing machine based distribution system that will typically have multiple units of each new release per article dispensing machine. The dispensing machines of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention can stock up to two thousand DVDs Blu Ray video games or other discs movies games or other entertainment content making the system competitive with existing brick and mortar video rental superstores.

The dispensing machine and system of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention distinguishes itself from such stores by offering major benefits not conventionally offered by such stores including additional cross marketing programs e.g. promotional rentals for a certain amount of dollars spent at the retail location and convenience e.g. open always .

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention yields a competitive advantage in the DVD Blu Ray disc and video game rental marketplace by offering consumers cross marketing promotional programs convenience of selection e.g. computer based searches for movies and recommendations based on consumer profiles and potentially extended hours e.g. 24 hours a day 7 days a week . The invention employs a more cost effective convenient platform than brick and mortar stores. In addition with the invention dispensing machines can be situated in retail locations having high foot traffic such as at a popular grocery store restaurant drug store and or other popular retail location.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention can be operated at a substantial savings over the costs associated with traditional brick and mortar video rental stores. For example the invention does not require hourly employees to continuously man the dispensing machines or restock them with inventories.

Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention does not require an on site store manager because all operational decisions can be made at a centralized location by a management team officed remote from the retail locations. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention does not require significant physical space. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention has low operating costs because heating or air conditioning is not necessarily required for the dispensing machines and they consume a relatively low level of electrical energy. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 has low maintenance costs and downtime.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention addresses the shortcomings of traditional brick and mortar stores in a convenient and cost effective delivery vehicle having the added bonus of serving as an effective promotional platform that drives incremental sales to retail locations. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention overcomes these disadvantages by at least offering more new releases and older selections for any given time period and lower cost per viewing with significantly more convenience than Internet based and pay per view services.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention is a fully automated integrated DVD Blu Ray and video game rental and or purchase systems. It preferably incorporates robust secure scalable software that provides a fully personalized user experience and real time feedback to retail locations and advertisers scalable hardware that leverages existing technologies such as touch screen focused audio speakers and video monitors technology utilizing the Internet through a system website or mobile consumer electronics device application. These technologies and others fill long felt needs in the art and give advantages over conventional video distribution options. The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the invention functions as much as a promotional platform as it does a rental kiosk.

By utilizing the dispensing machines and the fully interactive real time linked Internet website or mobile consumer electronics device applications consumers can rent one or more DVDs Blu Ray discs video games or other entertainment content directly from dispensing machines as well as indirectly by making a rental reservation through the website or application for later pickup at a conveniently located machine. These dispensing machines are preferably networked with each other with the inventory control and or supply office and with the system website or application by phone line DSL wireless network or other Internet connection at each retail location. Through this linked network the rental experience for each consumer can be customized based on a profile for each consumer such as via personalized home pages and rental screens.

The invention allows for optimizing the utilization of inventory space for articles dispensable from an article dispensing machine by improving the sorting removal and loading of the inventory of articles. A list identifying a subset of articles targeted for removal from the article dispensing machine may be received. The subset of articles may include at least thinned articles damaged articles fraudulent articles do not rent DNR articles rebalancing articles and or a combination of these subsets that are to be removed from the article dispensing machine. Further refined subsets of a subset of articles may also be defined. The subset of articles may be moved from a non removable storage unit in the article dispensing machine to a predetermined area. The predetermined area may include a merchandising zone of the storage unit and or a separate article removal bin. Inventory management may then be initiated through the receipt of a command from a field service representative. The field service representative may remove each subset of articles from the predetermined area s and confirm that the subset of articles was removed. New articles may be loaded into the predetermined area by the field service representative followed by confirmation that the new articles have been loaded. The article dispensing machine may move the new articles from the predetermined area to the storage unit. The status of each of the articles may be tracked in an inventory database.

The invention has the advantage of quicker and more efficient removal from and loading of articles to an article dispensing machine because the articles may be removed from and loaded to the same predetermined area. Moreover the wear and tear on mechanics of the article dispensing machine and downtime due to mechanical breakdowns may be reduced through use of the invention. Cost savings due to less downtime maintenance and time for removing and loading articles may also result. Other features and advantages are provided by the following description and drawings.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiments in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail preferred embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of the invention to the embodiments illustrated.

As shown in each article dispensing machine includes a dispensing machine processor also referred to herein as a vending controller which is connected to a first sensor and a second sensor a first motor and a second motor and a user interface control system collectively referred to as the peripheral devices. The processor is capable of executing various programs to provide input to and or receive outputs from the peripheral devices. Suitable processors for such use are known to those of skill in the art. In addition the processor is operably connected to at least one memory storage device such as a hard drive or flash drive or other suitable memory storage device.

Article dispensing machine memory storage device can include any one or a combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover article dispensing machine memory storage device may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Article dispensing machine memory storage device can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but are still accessed by processor. Article dispensing machine memory storage device includes an article dispensing machine database .

The article dispensing machines preferably comprise a network of machines in communication with one another. As shown in in the preferred configuration the article dispensing machines are networked with one another via a central server or central controller in a hub and spoke system. However optionally the article dispensing machines may be connected and communicate directly with one another and or subsets of article dispensing machines may communicate with one another directly as well as with the central server .

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the central server includes a central processor and or controller central memory and one or more input and or output I O devices or peripherals that are communicatively coupled via a local interface. The architecture of the central server is set forth in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Numerous variations of the architecture of the central server and the content provider backend would be understood by one of skill in the art and are encompassed within the scope of the invention.

The processor controller is a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the server a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80 86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc. or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation. The processor may also represent a distributed processing architecture such as but not limited to SQL Smalltalk APL KLisp Snobol Developer 200 MUMPS Magic.

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs. The separate programs comprise ordered listings of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in memory includes a suitable operating system O S . A non exhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers smartphones or personal digital assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. Windows CE or Windows Phone available from Microsoft Corporation iOS available from Apple Inc Android available from Google Inc. BlackBerry OS available from Research in Motion Limited Symbian available from Nokia Corp. . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

Steps and or elements and or portions thereof of the invention may be implemented using a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program the program needs to be translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system O S . Furthermore the software embodying the invention can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedural programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C Pascal Basic Fortran Cobol Perl Java Ada and Lua.

When article dispensing machine is in operation the article dispensing machine processor is configured to execute software stored within article dispensing machine memory to communicate data to and from the dispensing machine memory and to generally control operations of article dispensing machine pursuant to the software. The software aspects of the invention and the O S in whole or in part but typically the latter are read by processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the invention or aspects thereof are implemented in software it should be noted that the software can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. The invention can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

For communication with the central server article dispensing machine is equipped with network communication equipment and circuitry. In a preferred embodiment the network communication equipment includes a network card such as an Ethernet card. In a preferred network environment each of the plurality of article dispensing machines on the network is configured to use the TCP IP protocol to communicate via the network . It will be understood however that a variety of network protocols could also be employed such as IPX SPX Netware PPP and others. It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the invention is for article dispensing machine to have a broadband connection to the network the principles of the invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

The central controller communicates with the article dispensing machine controllers via the network . The central controller is preferably located at a central station or office that is remote from the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller can operate as the server for communicating over the network between the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller receives communications and information from the article dispensing machines and also transmits communications and information to the machines . For example when a rental transaction is performed at the article dispensing machine transaction data such as the rented title is then transmitted from the machine to the central controller via the network . It will be understood that central servers in general such as the central controller are often distributed. A plurality of central servers controllers may optionally be arranged in load balanced architecture to improve the speed and efficiency of the network. To accomplish the implementation of multiple controllers the controllers may be in communication with a router distributor .

The central controller is also in communication with a central database . The central database stores information regarding the transaction network. For example the central database stores data regarding the vending inventory at each of the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central database also stores sales information regarding the sales quantities of the vending merchandise stored in the machines . For example the central database stores information regarding the sales totals for each title and for each machine vending location. Central database also stores user information and rental transaction information such as user IDs the date on which discs are due to be returned the date on which discs were rented from the machines and a list of valid coupon codes and restrictions associated with those codes. In certain embodiments central database also may be configured to store user PINs. Some of this information is also preferably stored in article dispensing machine database .

Central database is preferably a relational database although other types of database architectures may be used without departing from the principles of the invention. For example the database may be a SQL database an Access database or an Oracle database and in any such embodiment have the functionality stored herein. Central database is also preferably capable of being shared as illustrated between a plurality of central controllers and its information is also preferably capable of being transmitted via network . It will be understood that a variety of methods exist for serving the information stored in central database . In one embodiment .net and Microsoft Reporting Services are employed however other technologies such as ODBC MySQL CFML and the like may be used.

The central controller and central database are also accessible by an electronic device which may include a personal computer mobile device e.g. smartphone personal digital assistant etc. tablet computer video game console television and Blu Ray player . The electronic device may be in direct or indirect communication with the central controller and or the central database through a wired and or wireless network connection such as Ethernet Wi Fi cellular 3G 4G etc. or other type of connection. As a personal computer the electronic device will be understood as comprising hardware and software consistent with marketable personal and laptop computers such as a display monitor a keyboard and a microprocessor. The electronic device may also comprise Internet browser software such as Firefox Internet Explorer Chrome or Safari. Using the browser software a user of the electronic device can access a web interface through the central controller . An application may also execute on the electronic device that accesses the central controller . To that end central controller preferably comprises web server software such as IIS or Apache. It will be understood that a variety of web server software and web browser software exists to implement the principles of the invention without departing therefrom. Through the web browser software or application the electronic device communicates with the central controller and allows the user to login to a central command functionality of the central controller and to view and modify data stored in the central database . The browser interface or application also allows the user to perform certain system functions which will affect the inventory and behavior of the article dispensing machines . The electronic device may communicate with the central controller and the central database using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

In a preferred embodiment a financial server is also in communication with the network . It will be understood that a variety of financial services exist for processing financial information via the Internet and other networks . Those services allow for the processing of credit card and debit card information so that users of the services do not have to interface directly with credit and debit card companies. In the financial server is illustrated as a single server although the financial server may comprise an entire sub network of financial servers responsible for processing financial information.

As shown in article dispensing machine includes a machine housing with front rear top bottom and side panels. The machine housing is preferably a combination molded fiberglass and sheet metal cabinet. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the housing can be constructed from a variety of other suitable materials and with a variety of other suitable manufacturing techniques.

As shown most clearly in a user interface portion of housing includes a card reader a keypad and or touch screen and an article transfer opening . The card reader is preferably designed in known fashion to read magnetically encoded membership and or credit debit cards for authorizing the distribution of articles of inventory through the article transfer opening . Keypad and or touch screen permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to communicate with the dispensing machine and or a central office linked in electrical communication with the dispensing machine. Keypad and or touch screen also permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to enter appropriate commands directed to carrying out specific machine tasks. It will be appreciated that the optional touch screen includes a monitor made with known technologies making it capable of being utilized as a user interface for entry of commands designed to carry out machine tasks. The touch screen may also be capable of displaying a QR Quick Response code to a customer. The customer may read the QR code with a camera on a mobile device or with a dedicated QR code reader. The QR code can represent a universal resource locator URL to access a digital media selection or can represent a reference number for use by the customer when contacting customer service for example.

Furthermore it will be appreciated that additional user interface portions having additional or even identical user interface components could be incorporated within article dispensing machine . For example these components could be incorporated on other panels of the housing of machine so that the machine can be used simultaneously by multiple consumers translating into more efficient distribution of articles in high traffic areas. Dispensing machine also preferably includes speaker units. Known audio technology may be incorporated within dispensing machine to broadcast focused audio directed to relatively small e.g. three square feet locations in front of the machines from speaker units and or in other designated locations at a retail site.

Referring now to which shows the components positioned in the interior of dispensing machine the article dispensing machine includes a non removable storage unit which may be a carousel style cylindrical storage facility having a plurality of compartmentalized rows defined by circular shaped storage racks sharing a common central axis. Each of the rows has a plurality of receiving slots or compartments . Each storage rack includes radially extending angularly separated compartment panels defining article storage compartments which are designed to receive and retain flat type pack articles such as DVD Blu Ray disc and video game disc cases as desired. The compartment panels are preferably axially aligned to retain the opposing sides of DVD Blu Ray disc and video game disc cases at the top and bottom ends thereof. In that regard the DVD Blu Ray disc and video game disc cases are preferably retained between successive vertical pairs of storage racks . The storage racks are vertically spaced by axially extending support members .

A first motor hereinafter referred to as the rotational motor rotates the storage unit about a vertical axis formed by the driven shaft . As shown in rotational motor drives a belt which in turn rotates wheels and shaft to which the storage racks are attached.

As shown in a selector arm is adjacent the storage unit . The selector arm is connected to a conveying belt carried by rollers which are preferably positioned proximate to the top and the bottom of the article dispensing machine housing. At least one of the rollers may be driven by a second motor hereinafter referred to as the selector arm motor to provide for vertical movement of selector arm along a vertical axis generally parallel to the vertical axis of the storage device. Alternatively the selector arm motor may be positioned on the selector arm . In a preferred embodiment the motors are stepper motors that are capable of accurately controlling the movement and position of the compartmentalized storage unit and the selector arm respectively.

Referring now to the vending apparatus is equipped with a first sensor for sensing objects stored in the inventory of the apparatus. The first sensor is preferably mounted on the selector arm . A variety of forms of sensors are practicable with the invention for use as the first sensor without departing from the principles thereof including proximity sensors proximity sensors an optical laser scanner a magnetic scanner an optical bar code reader an ultraviolet optical scanner a radio frequency sensor and an infrared optical scanner. The vending apparatus is further equipped with a second sensor capable of reading information attached to the objects stored in the inventory of the apparatus. The second sensor is preferably as illustrated mounted on the selector arm . A variety of forms of sensors are practicable with the invention for use as the second sensor without departing from the principles thereof including an optical laser scanner a magnetic scanner an optical bar code reader an ultraviolet optical scanner a radio frequency sensor and an infrared optical scanner.

The selector arm comprises a picker device which is capable of removing a DVD Blu Ray disc or video game disc from the compartments . The selector arm may further comprise a conveyor belt which contacts one of the media products in one of the compartments and conveys the product to the article transfer opening whereby it is delivered to a user on the exterior of the article dispensing machine . The conveyor is driven by a conveyor motor .

A system and method for calibrating the selector arm controller is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0254832 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Generally during the normal operation of the article dispensing machine each article of inventory dispensed from a dispensing machine is preferably scanned by the second sensor and an electronic record is created indicating the consumer who rented and or purchased the media. In addition articles of inventory returned to a dispensing machine by a customer and inserted into the article transfer opening thereof are preferably scanned by the second sensor and identified by the dispensing machine for example with a bar code reader or scanner in electronic communication with the dispensing machine controller positioned proximate the media dispensing return opening along with an identification of its later stored position on the storage device.

These electronic records can be shared among dispensing machines within a network thereof and can also be shared with a centralized office via the Internet or any other electronic data communication link. These electronic records can be used to ensure that the inventory process is carried out efficiently and accurately.

Part of the storage unit may be designated as a merchandising zone for implementing the invention related to optimizing utilization of inventory space of the article dispensing machine as described below. A predetermined number of article storage compartments in each of the storage racks that make up the storage unit may be part of the merchandising zone . Color coded rods in one embodiment may delineate the merchandising zone so that inventory stocking personnel and or field service representatives can quickly and easily identify the merchandising zone . Other locators and or indicators may be utilized to identify and define the merchandising zone . The merchandising zone may hold articles that have been targeted for removal prior to the physical removal of the articles from the article dispensing machine . New articles may also be loaded into the merchandising zone . In one embodiment the merchandising zone may consist of a quadrant of each of the storage racks . The merchandising zone may be included as any portion or all of the storage unit and or one or more storage racks . The number of compartments included in the merchandising zone may vary. In some embodiments some or all of one or more of the storage racks of the storage unit may be designated as the merchandising zone . If the entirety of one or more storage racks is designated as the merchandising zone these designated storage rack s may be located at an optimal height of the storage unit to facilitate easier access for field service representatives. For example the merchandising zone may be the top most storage rack so that the field service representative instead of a storage rack located lower in the storage unit so that the field service representative would not have to bend or crouch down to access the merchandising zone .

Furthermore an article removal bin may be located at the bottom of the article dispensing machine for collecting media articles for removal. Media articles moved into the article removal bin may include damaged articles fraudulent articles or DNR articles that are no longer eligible for rental or sale. In one embodiment thinned articles may be moved into the article removal bin . Damaged articles fraudulent articles DNR articles thinned articles and other statuses of media articles are detailed below. The inventory stocking personnel or field service representatives may physically remove the media articles from the article removal bin when inventory management of the article dispensing machine is performed as described below. In one embodiment the article removal bin may be an open bin that articles being removed may be dropped into. In other embodiments the article removal bin may include slots and or compartments for the articles being removed. The article removal bin may include an incline to improve and optimize the loading of articles into the article removal bin .

The article removal bin and or the use of additional storage racks of the storage unit can significantly increase the inventory capacity of the article dispensing machine . A previous version of an article dispensing machine may have an inventory capacity of 710 media articles of which 80 media articles are unavailable for rental or sale to a customer. Accordingly 630 media articles would be available for rental of sale to a customer in this previous version. The invention allows for installation and use of the article removal bin and or one or more additional storage racks in place of the inventory space previously used for the 80 media articles that are unavailable for rental or sale.

In one embodiment an additional storage rack of the storage unit may allow storage of 87 additional media articles that are available for rental or sale to a customer and an article removal bin may allow storage of 60 100 additional media articles that are not available for rental or sale to the customer. The overall inventory capacity of the article dispensing machine in this embodiment may therefore be increased from 710 to 777 817 media articles an increase of 9.4 15 . In this embodiment the number of media articles available for rental or sale may be increased from 630 to 717 media articles an increase of 13.8 .

In another embodiment an article removal bin may allow storage of up to 150 media articles that are not available for rental or sale to the customer. The overall inventory capacity of the article dispensing machine in this embodiment may be increased from 710 to 780 media articles an increase of nearly 9.9 with the 150 additional media articles not available for rental or sale.

The article dispensing machine may include an automated self healer job that optimizes and maximizes the availability of article inventory. For example if an article has an unknown identity due to errors or other reasons the self healer job may attempt to determine the identity of the unknown articles. Unknown articles may initially be unidentifiable if the article dispensing machine is unable to capture identifier information on the article due to problems with the sensor a missing identifier a misaligned identifier etc. These unknown articles may be placed in the article removal bin and or the merchandising zone if the unknown articles can be identified and if it is determined that the unknown articles are to be removed from the article dispensing machine .

The physical media article in an article dispensing machine may include at least a DVD Blu Ray disc video game disc or other media article. Each of the article dispensing machines may operate without requiring continuous connectivity and communication with the central controller . In one embodiment the central controller only transmits data in response to communication from an article dispensing machine . For example an article dispensing machine may attempt to communicate with the central controller following completion of one or more rental transactions or one or more media article return transactions. In another embodiment the article dispensing machine continues normal operations and transactions even if communication is interrupted or cannot be established with the central controller . Communication with the central controller may be interrupted if the load at the central controller is above a certain threshold. For example the central controller may direct the article dispensing machine to only transmit certain types of messages and or transactions e.g. financial authorizations until the load has decreased. In these cases transaction data can be stored locally in the article dispensing machine such as in the article dispensing machine memory storage device until a predetermined time interval elapses when a predetermined number of transactions is reached until communication with the central controller can be reestablished or the load at the central controller has decreased. Once communication is established with the central controller financial and inventory information can be uploaded and the appropriate servers and databases can be updated.

In one embodiment the article dispensing machine can display only media articles which are physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this way a customer may browse on the user interface only the media articles which are in stock and available to rent at that article dispensing machine . Typically the article dispensing machine possesses media information for the media articles that are currently located in the article dispensing machine . The media information for a media article includes title actor director studio publisher plot synopsis format description parental rating individualized ratings and reviews popularity article type running time genre cover artwork or other information. The article dispensing machine can also store in memory the media information for recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine . The article dispensing machine can communicate with the central controller when media information about a particular media article is needed. For example when a particular media article is returned to an article dispensing machine that does not have the corresponding media information for that particular media article the article dispensing machine can query the central controller and central database for the media information. Once the media information is obtained the article dispensing machine may display that particular media article on the user interface as in stock and available to rent.

In another embodiment the article dispensing machine can display media articles that are both physically located and not physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this embodiment media articles which are both available and unavailable to rent can be displayed. A media article may be unavailable to rent if it is not in stock or is in stock but has been reserved for rental. In one example the entire catalog of media articles stored in an inventory database can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . In another example a subset of the entire catalog of media articles can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . The subset of media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may be determined for example based on geographic location retailer agreements contractual obligations customer rental habits and other criteria. The media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may include recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine or media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine . For example media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine may be displayed because those media articles may be available at a nearby article dispensing machine. In this case those media articles may be displayed to the customer so that the customer has an option to obtain those media articles from the nearby article dispensing machine . In this embodiment if a customer attempts to rent a media article that is out of stock reserved for another customer or otherwise cannot be vended at the particular article dispensing machine then that media article can be deemed an unavailable media article.

An embodiment of a process for optimizing the utilization of inventory space for media articles is shown in . The process can result in the management removal and loading of media articles into space designated for storage of inventory in an article dispensing machine . In some embodiments the space in the article dispensing machine may have been previously empty unused or otherwise unavailable for storing article inventory for example and the invention allows for optimal usage of this space. Increased capacity to store media articles that are rentable or sellable to customers from the article dispensing machine may result as described above. A customer may rent and or purchase one or more media articles from an article dispensing machine during a transaction. Multiple copies of the same media article may be present in an article dispensing machine so that the media article is available to multiple customers. For example a new release of a DVD or Blu Ray disc of a recent movie may have a higher demand than a DVD or Blu Ray disc for an older movie. In this case more copies of the new release may be stocked in the article dispensing machine in anticipation of the higher demand.

The operator of the article dispensing machine may have agreements with the producers manufacturers distributors and or developers of the media articles that dictate the manner location pricing duration disposal and or other parameters related to the rental and sale of the media articles. Some agreements may include a transaction eligibility cutoff date that specifies the last date that a media article may be rented or sold. For example the operator may have an agreement with a movie studio that allows DVDs and Blu Ray discs from that movie studio to be rented for a certain time period after which the DVDs and Blu Ray discs must be returned or destroyed. As another example the operator may have an agreement with a video game developer that allows a certain number of video game discs from that developer to be stocked for rental or sale in an article dispensing machine for a certain time period after which a lower number of video game discs may be stocked. Some agreements may specify that the removal of media articles from article dispensing machines at certain dates prior to the transaction eligibility cutoff date may result in reduced costs. The process may therefore be used in cases where an agreement dictates the removal of media articles from the article dispensing machine e.g. if media articles must be returned destroyed reduced or otherwise removed.

Media articles may also be removed from the article dispensing machine using the process if the operator makes a business decision to reduce or eliminate the availability of a media article for rent or purchase such as if a media article has rentals or sales that are below expectations or if a media article is an older title. For example analysis of sales and rental data stored in the database may determine how long a media article has been stored in inventory. As another example a profitability analysis of sales and rental data may determine which media articles are selling well and which are not. Other media articles may be removed from the article dispensing machine using the process if the media articles are damaged fraudulent or for other reasons. Through use of the process some or all of the media articles stored in the article dispensing machine can be automatically sorted into one or more predetermined areas prior to any manual interaction with a field service representative.

Media articles that may be removed from an article dispensing machine may fall into various categories including thinned articles damaged articles fraudulent articles rebalancing articles and do not rent DNR articles. A particular media article may be designated as a thinned article if the operator of the article dispensing machine wishes to reduce the stocked number of the particular media article such as when the transaction eligibility cutoff date is upcoming or as a result of the operator s business decision e.g. rentals or sales are below projections. A subset of thinned articles may be designated as rebalancing articles if the operator of the article dispensing machine wishes to place particular media articles in another article dispensing machine . Accordingly thinned articles may be removed from the article dispensing machine prior to the expiration of the transaction eligibility cutoff date or other specified date using the process .

If a particular media article becomes damaged or otherwise unplayable the media article may be designated as a damaged article may be removed from the article dispensing machine so that a customer cannot rent or purchase it. Media articles that have been reported as being fraudulent can be designed as fraudulent articles that may also be removed from the article dispensing machine so that a customer cannot rent or purchase it.

Furthermore a particular media article may be designated as a do not rent DNR article if the transaction eligibility cutoff date for the particular media article has passed so that the particular media article is not eligible to be rented or sold. In some cases an agreement may specify penalties if a DNR article is not removed from an article dispensing machine by the cutoff date. The agreement or contract may specify that DNR articles must be destroyed or returned to a distributor studio etc. There may be one or more categories of DNR articles that specify the relative urgency of whether a particular media article needs to be removed from the article dispensing machine .

New media articles may also be loaded into the article dispensing machine to replace the media articles which have been removed. The new media articles may include for example new releases of DVDs Blu Ray discs and video game discs for rental or sale to customers. Media articles of previously released media content such as older movies or video games may also be loaded into the article dispensing machine as new media articles. One or more copies of a particular media article may be loaded as new media articles. Inventory space for these new media articles that can be rented or sold to customers may be increased by moving media articles to the merchandising zone and or article removal bin which are ultimately physically removed from the article dispensing machine .

At step a list that identifies a subset of media articles targeted for removal may be received at an article dispensing machine . The list may include thinned articles including rebalancing articles damaged articles fraudulent articles and or DNR articles that are specified by the operator of the article dispensing machine . As described above these media articles may be targeted for removal based on agreements and or business decisions related to the reduction of stock for the particular media articles. The list of the subset of media articles may be in an XML format or other appropriate format. The article dispensing machine may receive the list from the central controller . The subset of media articles may have been manually or automatically selected for the list based on analysis of sales and rental data for example. The subset of media articles identified in the list may be moved from the storage unit to the merchandising zone and or the article removal bin depending on various factors. These factors may include how the media articles have been designated the available space in the merchandising zone and the available space in the article removal bin .

Media articles may be moved to the merchandising zone from other areas of the storage unit at step . In one embodiment thinned articles including rebalancing articles may be moved to the merchandising zone at step . In another embodiment any media article targeted for removal including thinned articles damaged articles fraudulent articles and or DNR articles may be moved at step from the other areas of the storage unit to the merchandising zone . The picker device may move a media article from a compartment in a non merchandising zone area of the storage unit to a compartment in the merchandising zone . In one embodiment media articles that are placed in the merchandising zone may be placed from top to bottom and left to right starting with a first storage rack . The media articles moved at step may be based on the list of the subset of media articles received at step . The moving of thinned articles and or other media articles at step may be known as a thin job that can be executed on a periodic basis. For example the thin job may be executed on a daily basis following a scheduled reboot of the article dispensing machine . If the thin job is successfully executed at step then the process continues to step .

However if the thin job is not successfully executed at step such as if an error code is detected due to a mechanical or software issue then the article dispensing machine may enter a maintenance mode at step . In this case the article dispensing machine may remain in the maintenance mode and not allow any customer transactions until serviced by a field service representative. At step a message may be transmitted to the central controller that the thin job either successfully executed or did not successfully execute. A thin job may not successfully execute due to an error code or if the article dispensing machine is loaded with new media articles before the thin job has completed. In this case the media articles that did not get moved to the merchandising zone by the initial thin job may be moved to the merchandising zone by a later executed thin job.

If a media article that is targeted for removal is not present in the article dispensing machine when the thin job is executed at step but is later returned by a customer that media article may be placed in a non merchandising zone area of the storage unit upon return. The media article may then be moved to the merchandising zone when the next thin job is executed. Furthermore thinned and other media articles in the merchandising zone may be rented or purchased by a customer from the article dispensing machine .

At step media articles may be moved to the article removal bin from the storage unit . In one embodiment DNR articles damaged articles and or fraudulent articles may be moved from a non merchandising zone portion of the storage unit and or to the article removal bin at step . In another embodiment thinned articles may be moved from a non merchandising zone portion of the storage unit to the article removal bin at step . In a further embodiment media articles that had previously been moved to the merchandising zone at step may be moved from the merchandising zone to the article removal bin at step . The media articles placed in the article removal bin may be based on the list of the subset of media articles received at step .

The picker device may retrieve the media article from a compartment in the storage unit to the article removal bin . The moving media articles may be known as a load bin job that can be executed on a periodic basis. For example the load bin job may be executed on a daily basis following execution of the thin job at step . If the load bin job is successfully executed at step then the process continues to step . However if the load bin job is not successfully executed at step such as if an error code is detected due to a mechanical or software issue then the article dispensing machine may enter a maintenance mode at step . In this case the article dispensing machine may remain in the maintenance mode and not allow any customer transactions until serviced by a field service representative. A maximum number of media articles that are allowed to be moved into the article removal bin may be defined. Accordingly the number of media articles loaded into the article removal bin may be tracked so that the article removal bin is not overloaded.

The media articles moved into the article removal bin may be marked in a database with an in bin status at step . The database may include an inventory database within the article dispensing machine database central database or other database. Marking the status of the articles in the database assists in keeping track of the location of each piece of inventory. Each article may have a unique identifier such as a barcode serial number radio frequency identification RFID tag or other identifier that identifies characteristics of the article such as a title type and other information. When the media articles are moved into the article removal bin their unique identifiers may have been read by the sensor for example.

As discussed above media articles may be categorized with a variety of statuses including in bin thinned damaged fraudulent DNR and unknown. Media articles may also be categorized with other statuses whether they are physically located in the article dispensing machine or located elsewhere. These other statuses include in kiosk removed missing rented wrong title received sold and destroyed. The in kiosk and removed statuses are discussed further below. A media article designated as a missing article is a particular media article that was expected to be one location or slot in the storage unit but is not actually located there. The location or slot in the storage unit in this case may be empty or contain another media article. A rented article is a media article that has been rented to a customer. A media article that is designated as a wrong title article is a particular media article that has been reported to have the wrong title associated with it in the inventory database. Wrong title articles in the article dispensing machine if present may also be targeted for removal. A received article is a media article that has been reported as being received by the warehouse or distribution center following removal from the article dispensing machine . A sold article is a media article that has been sold out of the inventory of the article dispensing machine . A media article designated as a destroyed article is a particular media article that has been destroyed including those destroyed pursuant to an agreement.

At step it is determined whether a command for initiating inventory management of the article dispensing machine has been received. In one embodiment inventory management may be initiated by a field service representative who logs into the article dispensing machine using the user interface for the purpose of removal and loading of media articles. If inventory management has not been initiated at step then the process returns to step to await the initiation of inventory management. In one embodiment the process can return to step to receive another list of a subset of media articles that are targeted for removal as described above. However if inventory management has been initiated at step then inventory management can be performed at step . During inventory management the user interface may display instructions graphics and or other information to assist the field service representative in the removal and loading of media articles from the article dispensing machine . For example the user interface may display and or indicate a particular storage rack and or compartment corresponding to a media article that is to be removed or where a media article is to be loaded.

An embodiment of step for performing inventory management is shown in more detail with reference to . At step of it is determined whether any media articles have been moved into the article removal bin . Thinned articles DNR articles damaged articles and or fraudulent articles may have been placed in the article removal bin at step as described above. If no media articles have been moved into the article removal bin then at step the article dispensing machine awaits receipt of confirmation that there are no media articles in the article removal bin . The field service representative may interact with the user interface to confirm that there are no media articles in the article removal bin at step . However if media articles have been moved into the article removal bin then at step the article dispensing machine awaits receipt of confirmation that the media articles have been removed from the article removal bin . The field service representative may remove the media articles from the article removal bin then interact with the user interface to confirm that the media articles have been removed from the article removal bin at step .

Next it is determined at step whether media articles have been moved into the merchandising zone . Thinned articles and or other articles targeted for removal may have been moved into the merchandising zone from other areas of the storage unit at step as described above. If no media articles have been moved into the merchandising zone then the process is complete at step . However if media articles have been moved into the merchandising zone then the process continues to step . At step the starting and or ending locations of the thinned and other media articles in the merchandising zone may be indicated on the user interface so that the field service representative is informed of which media articles to remove from the article dispensing machine . Other visual audio and or tactile indicators may be used to inform the field service representative of the locations of the media articles to be removed. In one embodiment the picker device may remove some of the initial media articles from the merchandising zone so that the field service representative knows the beginning portion of which media articles to remove. The remainder of the media articles may subsequently be removed from the merchandising zone by the field service representative. In some embodiments there may be media articles targeted for removal that are stored outside of the merchandising zone because the merchandising zone is full. In this case the article dispensing machine may automatically dispense these media articles through the article transfer opening . In other embodiments the motors and may be turned off at step so that the field service representative may manually and freely rotate the storage unit to access the merchandising zone .

The article dispensing machine awaits receipt of confirmation that the media articles in the merchandising zone have been removed at step . The field service representative may interact with the user interface to confirm that the media articles have been removed from the merchandising zone at step . In one embodiment the article dispensing machine may automatically determine whether the media articles have been removed from the merchandising zone by using the sensor for example. Once the media articles have been removed from the merchandising zone new media articles may be loaded into the merchandising zone by the field service representative. The starting and or ending locations for where to load the new media articles may be indicated on the user interface at step . Other visual audio and or tactile indicators may be used to inform the field service representative of the locations where to load the new media articles. In one embodiment new media articles may be loaded into the merchandising zone from bottom to top and right to left starting with a last storage rack . New media articles may include multiple copies of new releases and or other media articles that will be available for rental or purchase by customers.

It is possible that there may be more new media articles to load into the merchandising zone than available slots in the merchandising zone . In this case the field service representative may enter a maintenance mode of the article dispensing machine . In one embodiment the remaining new media articles that need to be loaded into the article dispensing machine may be individually loaded through the article transfer opening so that these media articles can be stored in other portions of the storage unit . In another embodiment another thin job may be manually executed to remove further media articles from the inventory of the article dispensing machine to make room for the new media articles.

After the new media articles are loaded into the merchandising zone the article dispensing machine awaits receipt of confirmation that the new media articles have been loaded at step . The field service representative may interact with the user interface to confirm that the new media articles have been loaded into the merchandising zone at step . In one embodiment the dispensing machine may automatically determine whether the new media articles have been loaded into the merchandising zone by using the sensor for example. The new media articles that have been loaded may be marked in a database with an in kiosk status at step . The database may include an inventory database within the article dispensing machine database central database or other database.

The new media articles may be moved from the merchandising zone to other areas of the storage unit at step . The moving of new media articles at step may be known as a merchandising zone synchronization job. The field service representative may initiate or schedule the merchandising zone synchronization job. In one embodiment the merchandising zone synchronization job may be remotely initiated from the central controller . In another embodiment the motors and may be activated so that the merchandising zone synchronization job can be executed if the motors and had been turned off at step . New media articles may be rented or purchased by customers when the new media articles are in the merchandising zone prior to or during execution of the merchandising zone synchronization job. A customer may also rent or purchase the new media articles after execution of the merchandising zone synchronization job when the new media articles have been moved to the non merchandising zone area of the storage unit .

In some embodiments the merchandising zone synchronization job may move some or all of the new media articles to optimized receiving slots and or optimized storage racks that are nearest to the location of the picker device . In this way the picker device may have not have to travel as far to access a particular new media article when a customer rents or buys that new media article. The new media articles may include new releases or other titles with rental or sales volumes that are anticipated to be higher than for other media articles for example. There may be less wear and tear on the picker device and associated machinery because the picker device would not have to travel as far to access these more popular media articles. In addition a customer transaction may be completed more quickly. For example the picker device may typically be located near the article transfer opening particularly following a customer transaction. In this case placing new media articles that are likely to be rented or bought in the optimized receiving slots and or the optimized storage racks that are nearest to the location of the picker device will speed customer transactions involving these media articles.

If the merchandising zone synchronization job is not successful at step such as if an error code is detected due to a mechanical or software issue then the article dispensing machine may enter a maintenance mode at step . The article dispensing machine may remain in the maintenance mode and not allow any customer transactions until serviced by a field service representative. However if the merchandising zone synchronization job is successful at step then the process continues to step . At step the thinned articles and or other media articles that had been removed from the merchandising zone may be marked in a database with a removed status. In some embodiments the thinned articles and or other media articles may be marked with a removed status at step when the field service representative has confirmed the removal of the thinned articles from the merchandising zone . A media article with a removed status has been physically removed from the article dispensing machine . An inventory report may be transmitted from the article dispensing machine to the central controller after a successful execution of the merchandising zone synchronization job. Following step the process is complete at step .

In one embodiment a merchandising zone unload job may be executed on a periodic basis to unload thinned and or other media articles from the merchandising zone . The merchandising zone unload job may be executed in parallel with a thin job so that a media article may be moved from the merchandising zone to a non merchandising zone of the storage unit then another media article may be moved into the merchandising zone to replace the previously moved media article. Some or all of the merchandising zone may be reserved for thinned or non removed articles unless that space is needed for other purposes.

The thin job load bin job merchandising zone synchronization job merchandising zone unload job self healer job and other jobs that are periodically and or automatically executed by the article dispensing machine may each have a priority assigned to them. The priority may determine whether or not the job is executed at a scheduled time based on whether the article dispensing machine is performing other tasks. For example if a customer is involved in a transaction at the article dispensing machine at the time when a thin job is scheduled to be executed the transaction can be allowed to continue and the thin job will execute after the transaction is completed. Jobs may also be interruptible and resumable so that other jobs or actions with higher priorities may be executed. In this way jobs with longer durations may be interrupted and or not started to allow higher priority jobs with shorter durations to execute such as rental or return transactions involving a customer.

A process for retrofitting a previous version of an article dispensing machine to incorporate the invention described above is shown in . The process may result in the installation and addition of an article removal bin to the article dispensing machine and or one or more additional storage racks to the storage unit to increase the overall inventory capacity of the article dispensing machine . As seen in the article removal bin may be installed in the bottom portion of the article dispensing machine so that the selector arm and the picker device may deposit media articles targeted for removal in the article removal bin . An additional storage rack may be installed in the storage unit and be rotated along with the other storage racks by the driven shaft . The additional storage rack s not shown may be installed at the top or the bottom of the exiting storage racks for example.

At step any existing apparatus and or mechanisms in the article dispensing machine may be removed or cleared from the area s where the article removal bin and or the additional storage rack are to be installed. For example obsolete or unused storage apparatuses wiring and or other mechanisms may be removed or cleared from the bottom interior of the article dispensing machine . The existing apparatus and or mechanisms may also be secured so that they do not interfere with installation of the article removal bin and or additional storage rack e.g. bundling wires together and securing the bundle to a rail. At step it may be determined whether one or more additional storage rack s are to be installed in the article dispensing machine . An additional storage rack may not be installed if there is insufficient space in the article dispensing machine or if a business decision has been made to not install an additional storage rack for example. If additional storage racks are not to be installed at step then the process continues to step detailed below.

However if additional storage racks are to be installed at step then at step the additional storage rack s may be installed. The additional storage rack s may be substantially similar to an existing storage rack in the storage unit and may be connected to the driven shaft so that the entire storage unit rotates together. In one embodiment the additional storage rack s and the existing storage racks may rotate independently of one another. At step indicators identifying the merchandising zone may be installed on some or all of the storage racks including the newly installed additional storage rack s . The indicators may include color coded rods for example as shown in . The indicators may delineate the merchandising zone so that inventory stocking personnel and or field service representatives can quickly and easily identify the merchandising zone .

At step it may be determined whether one or more article removal bins are to be installed in the article dispensing machine . An article removal bin may not be installed if there is insufficient space in the article dispensing machine or if a business decision has been made to not install an article removal bin for example. If an article removal bin is not to be installed at step then the process continues to step detailed below. However if an article removal bin is to be installed at step then at step the article removal bin may be installed. The article removal bin may be placed in the bottom interior of the article dispensing machine and may be secured to the article dispensing machine so that it is stationary but removable. More than one article removal bin may be installed so that media articles in different categories can be segregated for example. At step the software and or firmware of the article dispensing machine may be updated so that the newly installed article removal bin s and or additional storage rack s may be utilized as additional inventory capacity. The update software and or firmware may enable the selector arm and the picker device to deposit media articles targeted for removal in the article removal bin and merchandising zone for example.

Any process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments of the invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the invention particularly any preferred embodiments are possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the invention without substantially departing from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the invention and protected by the following claims.

