---

title: Magnetic resonance imaging for detecting cardiac diseases
abstract: The invention provides magnetic resonance imaging methods for detecting cardiac diseases including myocardial fibrosis. Specifically, the invention provides a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) pulse sequence that could be used to perform magnetization transfer (MT) or chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) in the heart.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09492100&OS=09492100&RS=09492100
owner: YEDA RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD.
number: 09492100
owner_city: Rehovot
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20140402
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 807 791 filed Apr. 13 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract Number CA 075334 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to magnetic resonance imaging methods for detecting cardiac diseases including myocardial fibrosis. Specifically the invention relates to a magnetic resonance imaging MRI pulse sequence that could be used to perform magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST imaging in the heart.

Myocardial fibrosis is increasingly associated with arrhythmia contractile dysfunction and ventricular remodeling significantly increasing the risk of sudden cardiac death. Hypertension and diabetes trigger fibrotic processes in the heart placing a high percentage of the American populace at risk yet the study of fibrosis and early identification of fibrotic development in high risk patients is hindered by inadequate fibrosis imaging methods.

Magnetic resonance imaging MRI of the heart has emerged as a powerful method by which to identify the presence of dense fibrotic tissue following intravenous IV infusion of the contrast agent gadolinium with a delayed contrast enhanced DCE MRI approach. However myocardial fibrosis can be spatially variable at low densities termed diffuse fibrosis or spatially focalized at high densities termed dense fibrosis often transitioning from diffuse to dense states as part of disease progression. The sensitivity of DCE MRI limits detection to dense fibrosis at which point the 2 year event free survival rate of patients is approximately 50 . Additionally DCE MRI techniques face significant limitations in that a large portion of the target patient population is excluded from receiving the required administration of gadolinium DTPA and that scan times are lengthy.

The ability to identify the emergence of fibrosis during earlier diseases stages would open a large window for potential therapeutic intervention as well as create a platform by which to study fibrosis non invasively and to design targeted therapies. Accordingly there exists a need to develop an improved MRI methods and systems for myocardial fibrosis and other diseases.

In one embodiment the invention provides a cardiac imaging method based on magnetic resonance data the method comprising selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in a cardiac tissue of a subject said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue of said subject quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. In one example said component is collagen and said saturation module saturates the magnetization of collagen and allows magnetization transfer with surrounding water.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for diagnosing detecting or monitoring a myocardial fibrosis based on a magnetic resonance imaging of a cardiac tissue the method comprising selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in said cardiac tissue said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for monitoring the efficacy of a treatment of a myocardial fibrosis the method comprising an imaging method comprising selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in said cardiac tissue said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. In another embodiment the invention provides a method for treating a myocardial fibrosis the method comprising the imaging or diagnosis method described herein.

In another embodiment the invention provides a magnetic imaging system the system comprising a unit for selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in a cardiac tissue of a subject said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST a unit for providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter a unit for acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue of said subject a unit for quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description examples and figures. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

The invention provides magnetic resonance methods for detecting myocardial fibrosis and other diseases. Specifically the invention provides a magnetic resonance imaging MRI pulse sequence that could be used to perform magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST .

In one embodiment provided herein is a cardiac imaging method based on magnetic resonance data the method comprising selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in a cardiac tissue of a subject said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue of said subject quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. In one example said component is collagen and said saturation module saturates the magnetization of collagen and allows magnetization transfer with surrounding water.

In another embodiment provided herein is a method for diagnosing detecting or monitoring a myocardial fibrosis based on a magnetic resonance imaging of a cardiac tissue the method comprising selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in said cardiac tissue said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. In another embodiment provided herein is a method for monitoring the efficacy of a treatment of a myocardial fibrosis the method comprising an imaging method comprising selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in said cardiac tissue said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. In another embodiment provided herein is a method for treating a myocardial fibrosis the method comprising the imaging or diagnosis method described herein.

Surprisingly in one embodiment a fibrotic scar is effectively imaged by an MRI pulse sequence without the use of any contrast agent. The MRI pulse sequence of the present invention can be used to perform magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST cardiac MRI. The same method can also be used for detection of targeted CEST agents for cardiac molecular imaging. The physical basis for the sequence is the use of a saturation preparation module that selectively saturates magnetization at specific frequency offsets from water. During this period saturated magnetization of H protons exchanges with those in surrounding bulk water such that at the conclusion of the saturation module the MT CEST effect is encoded into the steady state longitudinal magnetization and thus signal intensity of the MR image.

The concepts of magnetic resonance imaging are well known in the art and fully described in patent application publications for example in US 20040059213 and US 20020188190 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

It is well known that the protons within living tissues have an inherent magnetic moment and spin randomly giving rise to no net magnetization or direction. When a biological sample is placed within the magnetic field of the magnetic resonance scanner the protons continue to spin but align themselves parallel or antiparallel to the direction of the field B corresponding to low and high energy states respectively. During the course of a magnetic resonance examination a radiofrequency RF pulse B is applied to the sample from a transmitter coil orientated perpendicular to Band the protons are momentarily tilted out of alignment the precession of the induced net transverse magnetization around the axis of the static Bfield produces a voltage across the ends of the receiver coil which is detected as the MR signal. Any variation in the environment of water protons within a fibrotic tissue will lead to altered rates of relaxation of the induced MR signal. The MR parameters that give rise to this altered contrast can be expressed as a quantitative value.

Magnetization transfer MT as used herein refers to the transfer of longitudinal magnetization from the hydrogen nuclei of water that has restricted motion to the hydrogen nuclei of water that moves with many degrees of freedom. The water with restricted motion is generally conceived as being bound to macromolecules through a series of hydrogen bonds. The free water pool is the bulk water of the cytosol.

By saturating the magnetization of a tissue component for example collagen and allowing for adequate exchange with water the spectra of fibrotic tissue acquired using the method of invention can encode a steady longitudinal magnetization of the constant repetition time gradient echo readout scheme

In one embodiment one or more cardiac tissues or the whole heart within in a patient is subjected to the magnetic resonance imaging of the invention. In another embodiment a biological sample obtained or isolated for a patient is subjected to the magnetic resonance imaging of the invention. Any suitable specimen or sample type known to one of skilled in the art can be used.

In one embodiment a magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST is selected. A pulse sequence to quantify the selected magnetic resonance parameter is provided. In one embodiment the pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. In some embodiments saturation module saturates the magnetization of a component for example collagen and allows magnetization transfer with surrounding water. A plurality of sets of signals from the component in the cardiac tissue can be obtained and quantified.

In one embodiment a Z spectra can be obtained. Also a reference scan can be obtained for a signal normalization.

A fibrotic tissue spectrum can be obtained and correlated with a healthy tissue spectrum. In some embodiments the fibrotic tissue spectrum is characterized as the convolution of the normal spectrum with a distribution function for example a Lorentzian distribution function I f .

In one embodiment a two dimensional image can be constructed. In another embodiment a three dimensional image can be constructed. The three dimensional maps of fibrotic geometry can be used for surgical planning of a therapy for example a radiofrequency ablation therapy. In addition measurement of fibrotic geometry can also be used for implantation of cardiac assist devices as well as improved placement.

In some embodiments the invention is used to detect a CEST agent or reporter. A cardiac CEST MRI is a useful tool for monitoring the viability of transplanted CEST reporter gene expressing cells in regenerative cell therapies. Further with the implementation of multiple CEST reporter genes complex signaling pathways in cardiac regeneration therapies is investigated simultaneously serially and entirely in vivo with non invasive imaging.

Individual methods of the invention include methods of data acquisition that is performed using any MRI imaging systems e.g. Phillips GE and Siemens known to one of skilled in the art. Data may be acquired using 1.5 T and 3 T systems or greater field strengths. Methods include the use of anatomical MRI of the whole heart or of specific heart regions or fibrotic tissues.

In one embodiment raw data is transferred from the clinical imaging system to a processing server and reading of data may be performed with a variety of techniques including reading of data on server. Data processing and analysis may include the steps known to one of skilled in the art.

Quality control steps may be included which take into account signal to noise measures in specific locations line width criteria and the anatomical location of single voxels or multi voxel slices.

In one embodiment the method of the invention include data display and reporting including heart areas. Reporting include values for the whole heart or standard regions or fibrotic tissues with reference ranges and error bounds. Reporting may also be for volume corrected or longitudinal results. The reporting may be numerical graphical or heatmaps of results superimposed on anatomical MRI images. Reporting metrics may be for any measurement individually or for any combination of parameters. Reporting also provide some interpretation of the results including a diagnosis or comparison to a standard control or reference population.

In one embodiment contrast agent is not required in the invention. However in some embodiment suitable contrast agents known to one of skilled in the art can be used.

In one embodiment the invention provides a software package that implements one or more steps in the method including data acquisition from the imaging system processing of raw data quality control calculation of results including combining results from multiple methods reporting and display of results and provision of an interpretation. In some cases this software package takes the form of a kit which is implemented by a user of the technique.

In one embodiment provided herein is a magnetic imaging system the system comprising a unit for selecting a magnetic resonance parameter to characterize a component in a cardiac tissue of a subject said magnetic resonance parameter comprising magnetization transfer MT or chemical exchange saturation transfer CEST a unit for providing a pulse sequence to quantify said selected magnetic resonance parameter a unit for acquiring a plurality of sets of signals from said component in said cardiac tissue of said subject a unit for quantifying the acquired signals wherein said pulse sequence employs a saturation module prior to a constant repetition time TR gradient echo readout module in order to encode MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module.

For the purposes of this description the term diagnosis or diagnosis and monitoring is used to encompass numerous clinical uses of the invention for management of patients with cardiac or other diseases including myocardial fibrosis. For example the invention may be used to diagnose the presence of disease for the first time to risk stratify patients with a diagnosis of disease into higher and lower risk groups prediction of disease activity flares or clinical progression predicting response to a therapy prior to administration of a drug or after administration of a drug selection of a specific therapy selecting a patient for a clinical trial of a new therapy surgical planning or using the invention as an endpoint in a clinical trial of a therapeutic. As used herein the terms treating and treatment refer to therapeutic treatment wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change associated with a disease or disorder. Beneficial or desired clinical results include alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of a disease or disorder stabilization of a disease or disorder i.e. where the disease or disorder does not worsen delay or slowing of the progression of a disease or disorder amelioration or palliation of the disease or disorder and remission whether partial or total of the disease or disorder. Treating or treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disease or disorder as well as those prone to having the disease or disorder.

The invention can be applied to any fibrotic disease including for example but not limited to cardiac fibrosis such as myocardial fibrosis. Specifically the invention is useful for patient with possible or confirmed myocardial fibrosis. In one embodiment myocardial fibrosis is a diffuse myocardial fibrosis. In another embodiment myocardial fibrosis is a dense myocardial fibrosis. In yet another embodiment myocardial fibrosis is associated with myocardial infarction.

The term subject as used herein may refer to any human or non human subjects. The term subject refers in one embodiment to a mammal including a human in need of therapy for or susceptible to a condition or its sequelae. The subject may include dogs cats pigs cows sheep goats horses rats and mice and humans. The term subject does not exclude an individual that is normal in all respects.

Any patent or patent application publication cited herein is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention.

In this work the inventors of the instant application applied the MT CEST encoded steady state cardiac imaging method to in vivo MT mediated monitoring of fibrotic scar formation following myocardial infarction MI in the mouse heart. Further applications of these techniques are myriad and expanded upon in further detail below.

The pulse sequence diagram for the MT CEST encoded steady state cardiac imaging sequence is shown in . This sequence employs a saturation module Gaussian flip angle 270 bandwidth 200 Hz duration 13.7 ms number of pulses 28 prior to a constant TR gradient echo readout module TR TE 10.2 3.5 ms flip angle 10 number of acquisitions 100 in order to encode the MT CEST effect into the steady state longitudinal magnetization within the readout module. The total number of sequence repetitions saturation and readout modules was 128. Importantly saturation and readout module parameters were optimized to ensure maximal encoding of MT CEST contrast with minimal direct saturation of water. Other specific parameters were FOV 2.56 2.56 cm Matrix 256 128 slices 1 and slice thickness 1 mm. Image reconstruction was accomplished using the Bruker IntraGate system to retrospectively filter out respiratory motion and sort k space data based on cardiac phase. Sample end diastolic images of the mouse heart acquired with varying saturation module offsets are shown in .

Briefly a saturation pulse train module with offset frequencies of 12 9 6 4 2 1 0 1 2 4 6 9 12 ppm were used in order to obtain Z spectra and a separate reference scan offset 12 ppm and saturation flip angle 1 was acquired for signal normalization. Sequence parameters were optimized such that minimal direct saturation of water magnetization occurred at frequencies far from 0 ppm as seen in the healthy spectrum in . In contrast to water which demonstrates selective saturation across a narrow bandwidth collagen demonstrates saturation across a relatively broad bandwidth. By saturating the magnetization of collagen and allowing for adequate exchange with water spectra of fibrotic tissue acquired using the method detailed above demonstrate depressed steady state signal red spectrum when compared to normal spectra.

The relationship between the fibrotic tissue spectrum and that of healthy tissue was characterized mathematically as the convolution of the normal spectrum with a Lorentzian distribution function I f describing the MT effects of collagen as shown in . Within I f the variables A and describe the steady state magnetization and line broadening effects of fibrosis respectively. Normalized spectra were obtained by dividing the signal intensity within the myocardium by the corresponding reference scan signal intensity. The values of A and were optimized via RMS minimization and from this the fibrotic score was calculated for a given region of interest ROI as F.S. 1 A 1 100.

All imaging was performed on a 9.4 T Bruker Biospec Ettlingen Germany scanner using a cylindrical volume coil for excitation and a single element surface coil for reception. Mice were anesthetized using 1.25 isoflurane in oxygen and heated using thermostated circulating water. MI was surgically induced via permanent ligation of the left anterior descending LAD coronary artery in C57B6 male mice n 7 at 8 weeks of age. Mice were imaged using the previously described sequence at 1 7 10 14 and 21 days after MI. At the conclusion of MT cardiac imaging delayed contrast enhanced DCE images were acquired following intraperitoneal IP injection of gadolinium DTPA 0.1 mmol kg body weight via an indwelling IP catheter. T1 weighted DCE images were acquired using a cine imaging sequence with identical spatial parameters and flip angle 25 . Image analysis was performed on end diastolic images by defining infarct hyper intense border 5 pixels away from infarct zone circumferentially and remote remainder myocardial zones based on signal enhancement of DCE images. At the conclusion of imaging at 21 days after MI hearts were isolated fixed sectioned and stained for collagen using Masson s Trichrome staining.

MT encoded steady state cardiac imaging revealed similar spectral behavior in remote border and infarct zone myocardium immediately after MI . By 10 days after MI the spectra of infarct zone myocardium diverged significantly from those of remote zone myocardium . Border zone spectra typically demonstrated an intermediate MT effect. Masson s trichrome staining of isolated tissue sections confirmed significant collagen deposition in infarct zone myocardium with mixed collagen in border zone myocardium . The time course of change in the magnitude coefficient A of the Lorentzian distribution function I f and corresponding changes in fibrotic score F.S. revealed rapid development of collagenous scar tissue in the infarct zone between days 7 10 with limited development thereafter. In border zone myocardium an increase in fibrotic tissue content appears between days 7 10 after MI. The apparent reversal of fibrotic development within border zone tissue likely reflects further scar maturation and extension from the infarct zone thus redefining the spatial localization of the border zone over time.

The development of MT CEST encoded steady state cardiac imaging represents a novel advancement in cardiac molecular MRI enabling MT CEST imaging in the heart for the first time. This new method enables measurement of cardiac fibrosis without the use of exogenous contrast agents and would also enable use of molecular CEST contrast agents in the beating heart. The potential applications of this technique range from broad novel diagnostic purposes to surgical planning to molecular imaging in regenerative medicine.

The presence of collagen induced MT effects has generally been viewed as either a source of artifact in MR images or as a mechanism by which to selectively visualize scar tissue based on selective saturation of water magnetization. In tissue containing a large collagen component the excitation of collagen magnetization via tailored RF pulses and subsequent MT with surrounding water leads to a loss of signal. In the work discussed above MT was constructively utilized to encode the presence of collagen into the signal intensity of acquired MR images. Modeling the encoded MT effect within acquired cardiac spectra to measure fibrotic score enabled measurement of the development of collagenous scar tissue during the time course of infarct healing in close agreement with that demonstrated via histological techniques. Established MRI methods to identify fibrotic scar tissue require visual identification of signal enhancement on T1 weighted images following intravenous administration of chelated gadolinium salts. In contrast to these techniques the invention uses an entirely endogenous contrast mechanism which is significantly less invasive and provides a stronger quantitative component.

In addition to the immense importance of detection of the endogenous collagen contrast in the heart the MRI pulse sequence reported here enables cardiac imaging of CEST based contrast media. CEST MRI is emerging as a powerful technique by which to selectively visualize MRI reporter genes as well as a unique class of exogenously delivered contrast agents. To date CEST MRI has been performed in stationary tissues such as the brain breast and tumors but never in the heart. Conventional CEST acquisition strategies employ a CEST encoding preparation module similar to that used in this study followed by a fast spin echo readout mechanism. However due to constant movement during contraction the use of spin echo readout schemes is not suitable for cardiac CEST imaging. Cardiac imaging is commonly performed using constant repetition time gradient echo acquisitions with retrospective reconstruction algorithms. Our method encodes the CEST preparation into the steady state longitudinal magnetization of the constant repetition time gradient echo readout scheme and was optimized to maximize the CEST signature whilst minimizing direct saturation of water magnetization. The exact timing for the saturation and readout modules was chosen based on knowledge of the mean residence time of capillary blood water and concerns of T1 relaxation in the myocardium.

In the current study the inventors demonstrated applications of MT CEST encoded cardiac imaging. Importantly the applications of these techniques span far beyond that which was demonstrated in the study described above. For example in vivo measurement of myocardial fibrosis has been performed using DCE MRI with a T1 mapping approach. Such techniques face significant limitations in that a large portion of the target patient population is excluded from receiving the required administration of gadolinium DTPA and that scan times are lengthy. In contrast quantitative fibrosis mapping using the technique outlined in this study would enable a rapid and endogenous mechanism by which to measure myocardial fibrosis in patients. This capability has broad application to the study of fibrotic development in pre clinical models to diagnose fibrotic development earlier in patients and to assess the efficacy of anti fibrotic therapies during development and treatment. In addition this could be used to create three dimensional maps of fibrotic geometry for surgical planning of radiofrequency ablation therapy as described above. Further as described above measurement of fibrotic geometry could lead to refined criteria for implantation of cardiac assist devices as well as improved placement. Separately as described above cardiac CEST MRI can become a useful tool for monitoring the viability of transplanted CEST reporter gene expressing cells in regenerative cell therapies. Further with the implementation of multiple CEST reporter genes complex signaling pathways in cardiac regeneration therapies could be investigated simultaneously serially and entirely in vivo with non invasive imaging.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications that are within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

