---

title: Viewing three dimensional digital slides
abstract: Systems, methods, and media for providing a view of a digital slide image. In an embodiment, a digital slide image file is accessed. The digital slide image file may comprise a plurality of first image planes representing an image of at least a portion of a slide specimen at varying focal depths. Then, a three-dimensional object is constructed from the digital slide image file. The three-dimensional image object is constructed by determining a surface that crosses two or more of the plurality of first image planes, and determining image data that are interior to the determined surface, based on one or more of the plurality of first image planes. A view is generated from the three-dimensional image object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349208&OS=09349208&RS=09349208
owner: LEICA BIOSYSTEMS IMAGING, INC.
number: 09349208
owner_city: Vista
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 138 536 filed on Dec. 23 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 482 869 filed on May 29 2012 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 620 047 on Dec. 31 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 871 676 filed on Aug. 30 2010 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 189 891 on May 29 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 341 097 filed on Jan. 27 2006 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 787 674 on Aug. 31 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 60 647 542 filed on Jan. 27 2005 and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 140 265 filed on May 27 2005 all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to virtual microscopy and more particularly relates to retrieval manipulation and viewing of three dimensional image objects from three dimensional virtual microscope slide 3D digital slide images.

Conventional microscopes using mechanical focusing mechanisms of sufficient quality are easily focused by an observer. The feedback loop between the eye brain and the fingers is extremely rapid and accurate. If any part of the feedback loop is impaired however the process of obtaining perfect focus becomes extremely difficult time consuming and even inaccurate. These impairments may arise from poor optical quality insufficient or incorrect illumination inaccuracies in the focusing mechanism or even due to poor visual acuity of the operator.

More recently conventional computer implemented microscope systems have provided the ability to remotely access high resolution images of microscope slides for a number of years. Devices capable of creating such images fall into two broad categories 1 remote controlled or robotic microscopes and 2 imagers which create some type of electronic or photographic image of some or all of the specimen. Each type has its advantages and disadvantages many of which are unique to the particular application.

Conventional imaging systems are capable of creating large enough images to capture an entire specimen at moderate or high magnification. These images are called virtual microscope slides or virtual slides. Because of their extremely large size virtual slides are usually limited to a single focus level z plane . Many types of microscope specimens are very thin so a single z plane virtual slide is sufficient. Other types of microscope specimens however are thicker than the depth of field of the objective lens.

Recent improvements in imaging systems include the ability to create virtual slides with multiple z planes. These virtual slide images are called three dimensional 3D virtual slides and include imagery data from multiple focus levels throughout the thickness of the microscope specimen. What is needed is a system and method for extracting three dimensional image objects from the image data in a three dimensional virtual slide for viewing by a user.

Accordingly the present invention provides systems and methods for retrieving manipulating and viewing 3D image objects from 3D digital slide images. An image library module provides access to the imagery data in a 3D digital slide and constructs 3D image objects that are coextensive with the 3D digital slide or a 3D sub portion thereof. From within the 3D image object cross layer planar views spanning various depths of the 3D digital slide are constructed as well as 3D prisms and other shaped image areas. The image library module allows a 3D image object to be sliced into horizontal and vertical views skewed cross layer views and regular and irregular shaped 3D image areas for viewing by a user.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide for systems and methods for retrieving manipulating and viewing 3D image objects from 3D virtual microscope slide images. For example one method as disclosed herein allows for a 3D image object to be obtained from a 3D virtual slide and the 3D image object can be rotated flipped and sliced to provide a user with a complete 3D interrogation of a tissue sample.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. However although various embodiments of the present invention will be described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

In one embodiment of virtual slide viewing an image library module may provide access to a virtual slide image object. The image library module may be a programmed or programmable object implemented in software hardware or some combination of the two. For example the image library module may encapsulate access to a virtual slide. Accordingly all access to a virtual slide may goes through this module either locally access to disk files or remotely access to an image server machine . An image server may even use the image library module to access disk files. Virtual slides can contain 3D data in which multiple image planes are provided at a series of Z values. These multiple image planes may occur over an entire scanned tissue area or selected regions may be captured in this way.

Image data that results from multi planar acquisition is truly three dimensional. It can be perceived as a three dimensional solid which is divided up into cubical pixels. Image planes that were not physically captured can be synthesized between captured image planes using interpolation in the same way that the resolution in X or Y can be increased by bilinear or bicubic sampling.

In one embodiment the image library module employs the central concept of a view . A view is a two dimensional rectangular region derived from the image object. The image object may be the entire 3D virtual slide or some portion thereof. Software that wishes to display or process data from an image object retrieves data from the object as a view. For example various view parameters are established and provided to the image library module that in response retrieves and provides the view.

For two dimensional image objects all views are co planar with the image object s plane. A view may begin at any X Y location in the image object have any desired dimensions width and height and may be scaled to any desired resolution zooming . Views can also be rotated relative to the original image.

Even for three dimensional image objects a view remains two dimensional and corresponds to a slice through a three dimensional space. The simplest possible case is that two dimensional views are perpendicular to the Z axis of the image object. In this case views may begin at any X Y location in the image object have any desired dimension width and height and may be scaled to any desired resolution zooming . In addition the view s plane may be located at any desired location along the Z axis focusing .

More complicated cases arise when the view plane is not perpendicular to the Z axis. For example arbitrary orientation for views can be provided thus enabling full 3D viewing. Additionally orthogonal transformations rotations and flips enable side views and other interesting capabilities. The ability to tilt a view slightly from the Z axis can provide a parallax effect. Note that regardless of the view orientation there is always an axis perpendicular to the view and the view plane may be located at any desired point along this axis focusing can be performed along axes other than Z . To support 3 D image objects the image library module may provide a well defined application programming interface API that extends a number of features and functionality to applications that include the module.

Images have attributes that are determined at acquisition time and can be queried via the API. Among these attributes are overall width X and height Y . Three dimensional image objects also have depth Z . For consistency the units of depth are pixels even though these don t have a physical dimension when an image is acquired. The resolution of an image object may also be retrieved in order to convert pixel dimensions to physical units such as microns. For practical reasons image objects may have various resolutions pre rendered either by acquisition through different power objective lenses or through interpolation.

The image library module enables the attributes of each physical image width height zoom relative to base to be queried. Three dimensional image objects may have multiple z planes pre rendered e.g. corresponding to the actual planes which were captured . The characteristics of these z planes width height zoom relative to base and Z location can also be queried.

A view has attributes that can be modified through the image library module. These attributes include X and Y offsets and width and height expressed in pixels relative to the current view resolution and zoom expressed as a floating point scale value. Views of 3D image objects also have a focus attribute expressed as a signed floating point value. In one embodiment a zero value for focus can be the center of the image object and the focus values can range from 1 to 1 with negative values designating planes closer in the view direction.

In addition to two dimensional views through the 3D image object it may also be useful to retrieve regular and irregular shapes such as prisms and polygons from a 3D image object. These shapes are three dimensional views. In one embodiment a prism can have all the attributes of a view and additionally has a specified depth. As with image objects prisms can be thought of as having cubic pixels oriented to the view axis which defines the prisms orientation.

A clarification regarding the term depth as applied to images will be helpful at this juncture. In conventional terminology images have a property called bits per pixel. This is sometimes referred to as color depth. Color depth is not the same as the image depth attribute of 3D images. Bits per pixel is a much more accurate term than color depth but both terms are used interchangeably by workers in the field of digital imaging. The color depth bits per pixel determines the precision with which color values are stored. For example with respect to color virtual slides usually 24 bits per pixel are stored namely 8 bits for each of the red green and blue color channels. Each pixel therefore requires 3 bytes.

3D objects have depth Z as well as lateral extent X Y . The image depth is the number of pixels in the Z direction and corresponds to the overall change in the Z value. As an example if we scan 10 z planes at 40 each plane separated from each other by 1 micron then the image depth is about 40 pixels since there are about 4 pixels per micron. Note that there are 10 planes but that the depth is 40 pixels. This is because the Z sampling is coarser than the lateral X Y pixel sampling of each image plane.

A 3D image object comprises one or more layers in the Z direction. Each layer may have depth thickness since it may be composed of multiple planes if a layer is composed of a single plane then it has a depth of 1 pixel. Each plane may in turn be composed of one or more co planar images.

Image objects may also be blocked. If they are blocks are identified by X offset and Y offset within a layer. It is possible for some layers to be blocked while others are not. If a layer is blocked then all planes within that layer will have the same blocking offsets. However each layer need not have the same blocking offsets as other layers. In one embodiment each of the blocks within a layer has the same depth.

Note that an image object is the entire 3D collection of images and may be an entire virtual slide or a portion of a virtual slide. Additionally a single image may be a portion of one layer of an image object. In alternative embodiments a virtual slide may be a single file that contains multiple images or a collection of individual files that each comprise one image.

In one embodiment the preferred file format used for storing 2D virtual slides allows for compression in order to reduce file size. This compression methodology can be extended to 3D image objects as well resulting in a substantial saving of disk space and a corresponding improvement in the performance of remote viewing. In 3D compression there is also the ability to store a 3D image or section of a 3D image in one disk file e.g. using a multi image disk file format such as TIFF . In such a case output blocks are formed which have depth the disk file will have a single layer and each block in the layer will have depth. Advantageously both 2D and 3D compression methods allow for block type compression so that contiguous regions of image data can be retrieved efficiently by accessing only those blocks that are in common with the spatial region being retrieved.

Generally when accessing and viewing image information full resolution denotes the resolution at which the data were acquired. At 40 using a typical acquisition device such as the Aperio ScanScope this corresponds approximately to 0.25 microns per pixel. When viewing it is often useful to zoom to lower resolutions. In order to facilitate zooming rapidly sub sampled versions of an image object can be created and stored. These sub sampled images may be stored as part of the image object. For a 3D image object each layer may be sub sampled. Thus a virtual slide image file may contain multiple images for each layer at varying resolutions.

It is advantageous to have the whole 3D image object in one file because it simplifies moving it around renaming it etc. It is also advantageous to use a standard TIFF file format for a 3D image object because it is standard and it is easy to implement through use of the existing libtiff module which works very well. One limitation however to using a single TIFF file is the 4 GB size limit. Since virtual slides typically use lossy compression this size limit is usually not an issue for 2D images but 3D image object can be significantly larger.

As will be understood by those having skill in the art there are a variety of ways to address the 4 GB size limit for TIFF files. For example a single virtual slide file can be made bigger than 4 GB if a file format other than TIFF is used. Alternatively image objects can be stored as multiple files. The multiple file approach may be preferable because it can be made backward compatible with techniques already in use and files larger than 4 GB have other inherent problems for example they exceed the size of a digital versatile disc DVD .

Although tissue samples such as tissue on a microscope slide appear flat at the micron and sub micron resolution level they may actually have a considerable amount of thickness. The thickness of samples can vary from 0.5 micron to 10 microns. To digitally capture medically important information on a thick specimen an objective lens is focused through the specimen at varying focal depths. At each focal depth an image plane is captured for example an area of a specimen that is 10 microns thick may have 10 separate image planes. Because the thickness of the tissue may not be uniform across the slide sets of image planes may be acquired from various locations on the specimen. Each individual image plane corresponding to a thick region of the specimen is called a z plane. 

The lateral X Y dimensions of each z plane image can be determined by the acquisition hardware such as the size of a camera s CCD array. In one embodiment the dimensions of the CCD array may be 2048 1536 pixels. A z plane image may also be a combination of several fields of view combined together. The number and spacing of the z plane images are configurable and may be optimized according to the sample type and nature of the medical application. In one embodiment a typical three dimensional virtual slide 5 10 z plane images spaced 0.25 1.0 micron apart.

Notably with respect to the various planes and blocked planes and layers and blocked layers may be physical attributes of an image stored in single file or stored in multiple files. Alternatively the various planes and blocked planes and layers and blocked layers may be logical attributes of an image stored in single file or stored in multiple files. Alternative ways to physically or logically arrange and store the image data of a virtual slide will be understood by those having skill in the art and are contemplated for use with the present invention.

In one embodiment an image object is defined by its location in an X Y and Z coordinate system for a 3D virtual slide. The X Y and Z values can provide an initial offset for a first corner of the image object . The shape and size of the resulting image object may then be determined by its height width and depth values. Accordingly the image data for the complete image object may then be obtained from the 3D virtual slide from actual scanned z planes alone or in combination with interpolations of scanned z planes to fill in the space between.

Alternative methods for defining the shape and size of an image object may also be employed. Advantageously an image object may be spherical or irregularly shaped and defined by appropriate equations as will be understood by those skilled in the art. For example an image object may be coextensive with a single cell in the tissue sample or some other region of interest so as to provide a user with a 3D image of just the targeted region that can then be rotated and sliced for thorough interrogation.

In an alternative embodiment the image object as stored in memory may only include a single z plane. When such an image object is retrieved for viewing e.g. by the image library module the missing imagery data can be interpolated from a single plane of image data in the virtual slide or between two planes of image data in the virtual slide in order to fill in the missing image information in the image object . An advantage of capturing non contiguous z planes of image data for a 3D virtual slide is that the resulting size of the single file virtual slide image is significantly reduced.

As shown the image object includes a planar view . The planar view has a zero focus value and an X Y offset value relative to the image object . Once an image object has been retrieved various planar views such as planar view may be displayed to a user who provides offset and focus values X Y and Z . The planar view may be co extensive with the height and width of the image object or it may be n completely or partially interior area.

In one embodiment in order to construct a cross layer view which is planar imagery data from contiguous horizontal z planes in the image object at the appropriate height width and focus values are obtained and combined to form the cross layer view .

A prism such as cross layer prism can be defined within the image object by the height width and depth of two or more corners of the prism or by the height width and depth of a first corner and the height width and depth of the prism. Alternatively an equation that defines the surface of the prism e.g. if the surface is irregular or curved etc. can be employed to obtain the image data for the prism from the image object .

The IDS and IVW are each optionally configured with an image library module ILM that performs many of the functions related to obtaining manipulating and presenting views and prisms as described herein. The ILM may be a programmed object a hardware device or some combination of hardware and software. The IDS may use the ILM to access files in data storage area . The ILM may also be implemented in combination such that a portion of its functionality resides and operates on the IVW and a portion of its functionality resides and operates on the IDS . In one embodiment all access to 3D virtual slide image data goes through the ILM .

To support 3D image objects and 3D virtual slides the ILM provides an interface e.g. an API that extends a variety of features and functionality to applications. The ILM may be implemented as a software instance that can be incorporated into an application or as a service hosted on the IDS for example. Preferably the various features and functionality of the ILM are encapsulated and provided in a well defined API. For example images 3D virtual slide images have attributes that are determined at acquisition time and these attributes may be queried through the ILM .

The devices and are communicatively coupled to each other via a network . Alternatively the devices may be directly connected to each other or connected to each other via separate networks. In one embodiment two or more of the devices may be modularly integrated into the same physical device in which case the communication between functional modules may take place through inter process communication shared memory common files or the like.

The IAD comprises hardware and software which can acquire two dimensional images from microscope slides. The IAD may acquire images from the slide at any location within the slide X Y and at any focal depth Z .

The IAD typically provides optics to magnify specimens on a microscope slide to resolutions required for medical diagnostics by Pathologists. The lowest resolution is typically 1.0 microns per pixel often called 10 and the highest resolution may be 0.1 microns per pixel 100 . Typical resolutions are usually 0.5 microns per pixel 20 or 0.25 microns per pixel 40 . The numerical aperture NA of the optics is typically 0.5 or 0.75 yielding a focal depth of 0.5 micron to 1 micron allowing contiguous z planes in tissue samples thicker than 1 and 2 microns respectively.

Specimens on a microscope slide usually have an overall dimension of between 10 and 30 mm per side. For example a typical sample could cover a region of 20 15 mm. Such a sample when imaged fully at a resolution of 0.25 microns per pixel i.e. 40 yields an image that has 80 000 60 000 pixels. Accurately obtaining full slide images is technically difficult but may be accomplished with instruments such as the Aperio ScanScope that is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 711 283 Soenksen which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The IDS comprises a server computer and software which stores and enables access to two and three dimensional images acquired by the IAD . The IDS can be located near the IAD on a local area network . In an alternative embodiment it may be desirable for the IDS to be remote from the IAD and connected to viewing stations and other access devices via a wide area network . The IDS may include the ILM as appropriate for delivery of the 3D virtual slide image data.

The IVW comprises a personal computer and software which can display two and three dimensional images acquired by the IAD and retrieved from the IDS . The IVW may communicate across a local area network or wide area network with the IAD and IDS using standard computer network technology such as TCP IP. Image data captured at the IAD may be stored in data storage area or stored by the IDS in data storage area . The image data may then be later viewed using an IVW . The IVW may include the ILM as appropriate for obtaining manipulating and viewing of the 3D virtual slide image data. An ILM may be deployed both on the IVW and the IDS to provide 3D image data to a user at the IVW .

The network may be a local area network a wide area network a wired or wireless network or any combination of networks. On such combination of networks is commonly referred to as the Internet. Network may be the Internet or any sub combination of the networks that comprise the Internet. Network may also be a private network or a public network or any combination of networks.

Once the identification information has been parsed out of the request the ILM next determines whether the request is for a prism as shown in step . If a prism has been requested the ILM proceeds to step where it constructs the prism. described later provides a detailed method for constructing a prism. If the request is not for a prism the ILM next determines in step if the request is for a cross layer view. If a cross layer view has been requested the ILM proceeds to step where it constructs the cross layer view. described later provides a detailed method for constructing a cross layer view.

If the request is not for a cross layer view then in step the ILM identifies the offset for the view and in step the ILM identifies the focus for the view in step . Next in step the ILM accesses the imagery data in the identified z plane and then in step constructs the planar view for example using the offset and focus values in combination with the height and width values to crop the imagery data of the entire identified z plane to just the requested view.

Next in step the ILM calculates the cross layer plane based on the three identified points. Once the cross layer plane has been calculated in step the ILM accesses the imagery data in the cross layer plane. In one embodiment in order to access this imagery data the ILM may have to access imagery data in a plurality of z planes that are perpendicular to the Z axis. Alternatively the ILM may be able to directly access the imagery data in the cross layer plane and then construct the cross layer view as shown in step . In constructing the cross layer view a portion of the imagery data for the complete cross layer plane in the image object may be discarded.

The above described method may also be used to construct a prism from an image object. For example the top plane and the bottom plane of a prism can be identified according to the above method and then the imagery data in between those planes defines the requested prism. Accordingly a cross layer prism or a more simple prism can be constructed.

Additionally as will be understood by those skilled in the art the general outline constructing a prism can also be employed to construct 3D views of other shapes such as spheres or irregular shapes. In this method the surface of the desired 3D shape is first calculated within the image object and then the imagery data interior to the calculated surface is retrieved as the 3D view. In this description the term prism is used primarily to mean regular 3D shapes with parallel opposing sides but it is also used intermittently to mean irregular shapes or spherical shapes or other 3D shapes from within an image object that can be retrieved and displayed as a 3D view. All such shapes are contemplated by the breadth of the present invention.

After obtaining the imagery data for the top surface from scanned data or by interpolation in step the ILM next determines whether there is imagery data for the bottom plane in the 3D virtual slide or if the bottom plane lies in an empty gap between scanned imagery data. If the bottom does not exist as determined in step then in step the ILM obtains the nearest z plane of image data and interpolates the imagery data for the bottom surface in step . After obtaining the imagery data for the bottom surface again from scanned data or by interpolation the ILM can construct the image object. Additional parameters used by the ILM to construct the image object may include the image object height width and depth.

The above describe method may also be employed to construct a prism from an image object that is not completely populated with contiguous image data. Accordingly when constructing the prism the image data for the top and bottom surfaces are either present in the image object or interpolated from image data that is present. Next the image data between the top and bottom surfaces is filled in with data from the image object or interpolated data where necessary. In this fashion a regular or cross layer prism may be constructed from an image object.

The computer system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor .

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the computer system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

Computer system preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor . The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a DVD drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage medium in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD etc.

The removable storage medium is preferably a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the computer system as electrical communication signals .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the computer system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computer system .

Computer system may also include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to computer system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a modem a network interface card NIC a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card an infrared interface and an IEEE 1394 fire wire just to name a few.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the computer system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including hard disk drive removable storage medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the computer system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into computer system by way of removable storage drive interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the computer system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

