---

title: Wireless beacon devices for use in tracking user locations during group travel
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for wireless beacon devices for use in tracking user locations during group travel. A user may take a trip on a vehicle, such as a bus, train, cruise ship, or other large travel vehicle. The users may disembark the vehicle in order to visit a location but plan to travel further on the vehicle. Thus, when the vehicle is attempting to leave the location where the users have left the vehicle, the vehicle may be required to again account for each passenger. The vehicle may utilize a wireless beacon located near an entrance and/or onboard the vehicle to account for each passenger. The wireless beacon may connect to a communication device of each user when the communication device is in proximity to the wireless beacon and, thus, inform the vehicle's operator that each user in located on the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641985&OS=09641985&RS=09641985
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09641985
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
The present application generally relates to wireless beacon devices for use in tracking user locations during group travel and more specifically to using a connection between a communication device in possession of s user and a wireless beacon located on or nearby a travel vehicle to determine if the user is located on the travel vehicle.

A user such as a traveler or vacationer may take a trip using a vehicle such as a bus train airplane boat or other sub types of vehicle such as cruise ships and limousines. While travelling on the vehicle the vehicle may make stops where one or more users may disembark the vehicle for example to visit the location the vehicle has stopped purchase goods at the location and or to end the user s trip on the vehicle. The vehicle may have plans to continue travelling to another destination with one or more of the users who have left the vehicle at the location. The vehicle may set a time where every user should return to the vehicle. However some users may lose track of time or become lost at the location and not know when or how to return to the vehicle. Thus the vehicle runs the risk of either leaving passengers or deviating from a planned schedule. Moreover the user may return to the vehicle but be unaccounted for by the vehicle s operator for example if they have return to a room without checking in with a vehicle attendant. Thus the vehicle may be unaware when all the users return to the vehicle and the vehicle is ready for departure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods utilized by wireless beacon devices for use in tracking user locations during group travel. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

A vehicle such as a bus a subway a train a boat a cruise ship an airplane and or a limousine may provide short range wireless communications with users communication devices such as through beacons using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or other communication protocol. These beacons may be set up at an entrance e.g. door boarding location etc. and or located on within the vehicle. The beacons may communicate with devices in possession of users in order to connect to the device and determine the user is in proximity to the beacon. The beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a vehicle device or server to provide the vehicle device server notifications that the user is detected on the vehicle and in certain embodiments where the user is located within the vehicle. Thus the beacons may provide proximity detection of users and triangulation of users positions locations within the vehicle.

Thus these beacons associated with the vehicle may communicate with the communication device in possession of the user through Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or another communication protocol receivable by the communication device. When establishing a connection the beacon may emit a communication signal including an identifier for the beacon the vehicle and or an operator of the vehicle. A connection module of the communication device may execute specialized hardware and or software to passively monitor for the short range wireless communications for example through a communication module. When the device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both the device and the beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the device to communicate additional information to the wireless beacon such as connection information e.g. an identifier and or other stored data e.g. a ticket itinerary or other travel information . The beacon may be connected to a networked device on or associated with the vehicle e.g. a center console computing unit a heads up display a tablet computer a wearable computing device and or a centralized vehicle computing device or the beacon may include network functionality to communicate with other devices and or servers itself.

Thus the beacon enables the communication device to establish a connection communicate connection information e.g. an identifier for the user and or communication device and or complete a check in for the vehicle. Once the wireless beacon receives the connection information for the user the wireless beacon may communicate the connection information to a vehicle device server for use in determining whether all users travelling on the vehicle are located on vehicle. In certain embodiments the connection information may include information necessary to determine or access itinerary and or identification information for the user such as a ticket ticket number cabin number name address etc.

The vehicle device server may access a travel log of users e.g. passengers on the vehicle. The travel log may include identifiers or other identification information for each passenger that should be travelling on the vehicle. The vehicle device server may then determine which users are on the vehicle using connection information for which communication devices have connected to a wireless beacon associated with the vehicle. For example the connection information may correspond to the connections between the communication devices and the wireless beacon such as which identifiers for the users have been communicated to the wireless beacon and thereby the vehicle device server. If a user in the passenger list has a communication device that has recently e.g. within a time frame after the user has disembarked the vehicle connected to the wireless beacon and communicated an identifier to the wireless beacon the user may be determined to be located on the vehicle through the connection information and the travel log. However if a user in the travel log has not had their communication device connect to the wireless beacon e.g. when the user attempts to re enter the vehicle within that time frame the user may be determined to still be located remotely from the vehicle.

If all users in the travel log are detected on the vehicle through connections between their communication devices and the wireless beacon associated with the vehicle an operator of the vehicle may be notified that all users have returned. Thus the operator may continue travel of the vehicle to further destinations. The operator of the vehicle may be alerted on a device such as a center console computing unit a heads up display a tablet computer a wearable computing device and or a centralized vehicle computing device. However where one or more users communication devices have not connected to the wireless beacon and provided connection information e.g. an identifier to the wireless beacon the operator may be notified that one or more users is not located on or within the vehicle. The vehicle s device server may determine communication information for the user s and may alert the user s that the vehicle is or plans to depart. The alert may include one or more of an SMS or MMS text message to a phone number in the contact information an email to an email address in the contact information a message to a messenger account in the contact information and or a phone call to the phone number. Additionally the wireless beacon may connect with a communication device for a user that is not registered to be one the vehicle in the travel log e.g. a passenger on the wrong vehicle or attempting to travel without purchasing fare tickets . The vehicle s device server may alert the unregistered passenger on their communication device of the error. Additionally the operator or other administrator of the vehicle may be alerted to remove the passenger.

The operator of the vehicle may also be given the communication information to alert the user. The operator may be given a missing passengers list that includes all users who have failed to check back in to the vehicle through their communication device connecting with the wireless beacon. The missing passengers list may include the contact information for each user as well as co passengers associated with the user and or emergency contacts. The missing passengers list may also be updated if the user re enters the vehicle and their communication device connects with the vehicle s wireless beacon. The vehicle s device server may also access an itinerary of the user to determine if the user is departing at that location and may remove the missing user s name from the missing passengers list if required. Moreover the vehicle s device may contact one or more of an emergency contact associated with the at least second passenger an authority department contact a vehicle security officer contact and or a co passenger contact associated with the at least second passenger to alert them of the missing user. If the passenger misses the vehicle e.g. does not return in time the passenger may be informed of the next arrival and arrival time of another vehicle that may transport the passenger to their destination. The passenger may also be informed of the next stop for the departed vehicle so that the passenger may arrange travel to meet at the next connection location for the vehicle. Purchasable fare and or tickets may also be provided to the passenger so that the passenger may purchase travel to their destination.

System includes a user a communication device a vehicle having a wireless beacon and an operator device and a vehicle management device in communication over a network . User may travel in vehicle with communication device . User may at some point exit vehicle at a location. When an operator of vehicle wishes to leave the location the operator may determine whether user is located on the vehicle or not. If user re enters the vehicle communication device may connect with wireless beacon where vehicle management device receives information for the connection and alerts the operator that user has re entered the vehicle through operator device . However if user is not located on the vehicle and or has not re entered the vehicle wireless beacon may not receive connection information from communication device and vehicle management device may determine that user is not located on the vehicle. Thus vehicle management device may alert the operator that user is not located on the vehicle through operator device .

Communication device wireless beacon operator device and vehicle management device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Communication device may be implemented as a communication device that may utilize appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with wireless beacon operator device and or vehicle management device . For example in one embodiment communication device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device implantable communication devices and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a communication device is shown the communication device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one communication device is shown a plurality of communication devices may function similarly.

Communication device of contains a connection module other applications a database and a communication module . Connection module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments communication device may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Connection module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of communication device to establish a connection with wireless beacon including a check in with vehicle that identifies user as being located on or within vehicle . In this regard connection module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by communication device with wireless beacon to establish a connection and complete a connection with wireless beacon to establish connection information for communication device with wireless beacon which may be utilized by vehicle management device to determine that user is located on vehicle . A connection by connection module with one or more of wireless beacon may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or communication device or other information used to process a connection for communication device and a check in for user . Thus connection information may be established when a connection is made by connection module with wireless beacon .

In various embodiments connection module receives short range wireless communications from wireless beacon through communication module at vehicle and transmits information to wireless beacon including connection information for a check in process that associates user with wireless beacon connected with communication device . For example wireless beacon may be located at an entrance on and or within vehicle and set up to communicate with communication device when communication device is in proximity to wireless beacon . Thus wireless beacon may be range limited to connect only with devices e.g. communication device within the specified area such as a radius around wireless beacon a distance away from wireless beacon and or a signal direction for wireless beacon . When communication device enters the proximity radius for one or more of wireless beacon communication device and wireless beacon may connect and connection information including an identifier for user and or communication device may be transmitted to wireless beacon .

Connection module may execute in the background of an operating system of communication device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of communication device with wireless beacon . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example wireless beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by connection module as explained herein. Connection module may utilize communication module of communication device to receive the token from wireless beacon . If connection module acknowledges the UUID as identifying vehicle wireless beacon operator device and or vehicle management device e.g. if connection module determines the UUID corresponds to a request to establish a communication channel and or process and complete a check in connection module may transmit an identifier corresponding to user and or communication device back to wireless beacon . Connection module may utilize communication module of communication device to communicate with wireless beacon e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared LTE Direct or other communication protocol . The identifier from communication device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from wireless beacon . In other embodiments different information may be transmitted to wireless beacon such as a name or other personal information for user an itinerary travel schedule ticket or other identifying information. Thus the information transmitted to wireless beacon does not need to be utilized to process and or complete a check in with vehicle in all embodiments. Instead the connection information may be sufficient to determine user is located on vehicle .

Once a connection is established with wireless beacon the process may associate user with wireless beacon used to connect to communication device and thus vehicle . For example wireless beacon may previous be registered as located at an entrance on and or within vehicle . Once communication device connects to one or more of wireless beacon the connection information for the connection e.g. the connection information including an identifier and information for the check in such as the beacon s of wireless beacon that communication device is connected to may be transmitted to vehicle management device for processing. Vehicle management device may process the connection information to determine user is located on the vehicle as discussed herein. However absent connection information for user communication device vehicle management device may determine that user is not located on the vehicle.

Once a connection is established with wireless beacon by connection module connection module may be utilized to transmit further information to wireless beacon for use by vehicle management device . For example connection module may access information stored to database such as user personal financial and or travel information. Such information may be transmitted to vehicle management device for processing to determine user s itinerary destination or other travel information. Connection module may also interface with one or more APIs for applications and or modules executed by communication device to retrieve such information. Connection module may also access contacts of user such as co passengers and or emergency contacts which may be provided to vehicle management device . In other embodiments vehicle management device may receive such contacts prior to or when user embarks on travel with vehicle .

In various embodiments communication device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to communication device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may be utilized to receive notifications and or alerts from one or more of operator device and or vehicle management device . Such notifications and or alerts may correspond to information about an imminent departure of vehicle a departure of vehicle and or a departure time for vehicle . The notifications alerts may be received if user is not detected as located on vehicle . The notifications alerts may correspond to one or more of an SMS or MMS text message to a phone number in the contact information an email to an email address in the contact information a message to a messenger account in the contact information and or a phone call to the phone number. Messages received by communication device may also correspond to alerts that user is on an incorrect vehicle if a travel log for vehicle does not include user . Additionally other applications may include applications to present a next connection for vehicle if user misses a departure of vehicle from a location as well as an application to purchase travel fare tickets on another transportation provided if user misses vehicle s departure.

In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with a payment provider. As previously discussed other applications may include mapping applications social networking applications and or vehicle travel applications e.g. an application including information for vehicle s travel route times prices etc. . Other applications may include device interfaces and other display modules that may receive input from user and or output information to user . For example other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Communication device may further include database stored to a transitory and or non transitory memory of communication device which may store various applications and data and be utilized during execution of various modules of communication device . Thus database may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with connection module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of communication device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Database may include additional information communicated to wireless beacon operator device and or vehicle management device such as contact information for co passengers and emergency contacts itineraries and other travel information and or tickets for user .

Communication device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with wireless beacon operator device and or vehicle management device . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Vehicle may correspond to a passenger carry used for transporting one or more users between two or more points. Vehicle may correspond to a small or large passenger conveyance such as a car truck bus train boat cruise ship airplane or other type of vehicle that a user may utilize while travelling between locations. Vehicle may stop at one or more locations between a starting point and a destination point where vehicle may allow passengers to disembark from vehicle . Vehicle may be required to pick up one or more of the passengers that disembarked in order to continue transporting the passengers to a further location or the destination point. Although only one vehicle is shown a plurality of vehicles may include similar devices that function similarly. Additionally vehicle management device may be associated with only vehicle or may be associated with a plurality of vehicles e.g. where vehicle management device corresponds to a server .

Vehicle of further includes wireless beacon and operator device . Wireless beacon and operator device may include hardware and software necessary to execute the processes and functions as described below. In other embodiments vehicle may include devices servers displays mechanisms hardware and or software as required.

Wireless beacon may be maintained for example by an operator and or administrator of vehicle and or vehicle management device . Wireless beacon may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with communication device . For example in one embodiment wireless beacon may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example attached to connected with and or corresponding to vehicle . Wireless beacon may also be implemented as devices incorporated within a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Wireless beacon may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with communication device and or vehicle management device . Although wireless beacon is described singly a plurality of wireless beacons may correspond to vehicle which may function similarly.

Wireless beacon may be located within on near or corresponding to vehicle . Wireless beacon may be limited either by signal range or physical properties of vehicle wireless beacon to connect to device only when device is within a certain distance range of vehicle . For example wireless beacons may only connect to communication device within vehicle . In various embodiments wireless beacon may be located within a sub area location of vehicle and configured to only connect to devices within the sub area location e.g. an entrance . Thus wireless beacon may be associated with the sub area location such that when device connects with wireless beacon communication device may be associated with the area e.g. entrance location .

Wireless beacon of contains processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program configured to interact with communication device and or vehicle management device . Thus regardless of the implementation of wireless beacon as discussed above wireless beacon may utilize a connection check in process and include or be connected to a communication module. In other embodiments wireless beacon may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Wireless beacon may include an application for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a device e.g. communication device and wireless beacon . The requests may be unique to wireless beacon thereby identifying wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may utilize short range wireless communications of wireless beacon to transmit the requests to establish a connection including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If communication device receives a request to establish the connection with wireless beacon and responds with an identifier for user and or communication device potentially including the UUID and other information necessary to identify the aforementioned user item device wireless beacon to ramp up in power and create a connection between communication device and wireless beacon .

Wireless beacon may transmit the request to establish the connection with wireless beacon as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for communication application of device and or a token for wireless beacon transmitting the request. In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although wireless beacon may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to wireless beacon e.g. communication device and establishment of a connection for data transfers. In other embodiments wireless beacon may correspond to other devices such as WiFi capable devices near field communication devices etc.

The request may be specific to communication device by including information that is specific to user and or communication device such as a name identifier or device identifier. The information specific to user may be determined from information previously provided to vehicle management device such as a name identifier travel itinerary ticket etc. Thus in certain embodiments only communication device will pick up and authenticate the request. In other embodiments only communication device may pick up the request if wireless beacon is range limited to only transmit the request to devices within a certain proximity to sub areas locations within vehicle .

After wireless beacon receives connection information e.g. an identifier from communication device wireless beacon may determine device is in proximity to wireless beacon and thus vehicle . Wireless beacon may pass the connection information to vehicle management device to associate communication device with the wireless beacon and thus the location for wireless beacon . Vehicle management device may then determine user is located on vehicle and may determine if any other passengers are missing from vehicle based on lack of connection information for those passengers as discussed herein.

Wireless beacon may utilize a communication module to pass the check in information received from device to operator device which may also pass the check in information to vehicle management device . However in other embodiments wireless beacon may utilize a network connection of wireless beacon to pass the check in information to vehicle management device directly. Thus wireless beacon includes a communication module adapted to communicate with communication device operator device and or vehicle management device . The communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. The communication module of wireless beacon may also communicate with communication device and or vehicle management device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications e.g. if vehicle management device is local to vehicle .

Operator device may be maintained for example by an operator owner or other entity associated with vehicle and or vehicle management device . In this regard operator device may include one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with communication device and or vehicle management device to receive information about whether all passengers are located on vehicle an alert that a passenger is missing from vehicle receive a missing passenger list of missing passengers receive updates when missing passenger board vehicle and or receive contact information to alert one or more entities that a passenger is missing from vehicle . For example operator device may display such information to a driver boarding attendant or other user that may account for all passengers on vehicle . Thus operator device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . In various embodiments operator device may take the form of a center console computing unit a heads up display and or a centralized vehicle computing device. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to vehicle management device may be included in one or more of operator device e.g. user location module .

Vehicle management device may be implemented as a computing device that may utilize appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with communication device wireless beacon and or operator device . Vehicle management device may be utilized determine whether passengers are located on vehicle using connection information for each passengers communication device and wireless beacon . For example in one embodiment vehicle management device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a device is shown the device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one vehicle management device is shown a plurality of vehicle management devices may function similarly.

Vehicle management device of contains a user location module a travel management module other applications a database and a communication module . User location module travel management module and other applications may correspond to executable processes procedures and or applications with associated hardware. In other embodiments vehicle management device may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

User location module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of vehicle management device to access travel log information for passengers travelling on vehicle and determine whether one or more passenger is not located on vehicle when vehicle is preparing to or departing from a location. In this regard user location module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software that may first access a travel log for vehicle for example from database . The travel log may include required passengers to be boarded on vehicle when vehicle leaves a location that vehicle is currently residing. The travel log may include passenger information for each passenger including a name identifier device identifier itinerary and or ticket information. The travel log may be entered determined and or maintained by travel management module as explained herein. The travel log may also be updated by travel management module to remove and or add passengers that leave or board respectively vehicle at the location as explained herein.

While vehicle is residing at a location one or more users passengers may exit from vehicle for example to view a port on a cruise ship to shop or stretch at a layover airport or for another reason. Additionally vehicle may pick up new passengers at the location. Before vehicle leaves the location the operator and or management administrator of vehicle may be required to account for all passengers and have all passengers enter and or re enter vehicle for transportation to a further location. Thus user location module may determine if all passengers have entered re entered vehicle using connection information received from wireless beacon . The connection information may be generated based on a connection between communication device and wireless beacon and may include an identifier for user and or communication device . On receiving the connection information for wireless beacon when communication device and wireless beacon connect user location module may determine that user in now located on or nearby vehicle and ready for transport to the next location. Once every passenger is detected as on within or nearby vehicle based on a connection for each passenger e.g. a connection between each passengers communication device and wireless beacon user location module may determine that all passengers are ready for travel on vehicle . Thus an operator of the vehicle may be updated that vehicle is ready to disembark such as through operator device .

However if one or more of the passengers has not generated connection information user location module may determine that the user is not located on vehicle . For example if user is located remotely from vehicle e.g. not located on within or nearby and thus not ready to travel on vehicle the connection for user s communication device and wireless beacon may not be generated. Thus connection information for wireless beacon may not include a connection between communication device and wireless beacon . In such embodiments user location module may determine that not all passengers are located on vehicle and may update the operator of vehicle that vehicle is not ready to leave such as through operator device . The operator may further receive user s personal and or contact information on operator device in order to alert user of vehicle s upcoming or current departure and or a departure time. In various embodiments user location module may access the contact information for user from database . User location module may also contact user such as through a SMS MMS text a messaging application an email and or a phone call that alerts user that vehicle is missing user and or departure information for user . Additionally an emergency contact associated with user an authority department contact a vehicle security officer contact and a co passenger contact associated with user may be alerted in order to determine a location of user and or notify user .

In various embodiments user location module may also determine that user is not on a travel log for vehicle for example if user is on the wrong vehicle and or is attempting to travel without purchasing fare tickets. Thus user location module may alert user through communication device of user s error. An operator or other party may also be alerted through operator device in order to remove user if necessary. If user misses a departure of vehicle from a location user location module may determine information necessary for user to arrive at their destination. Such information may include the next connection for vehicle so that user may arrange personal travel to reach the connection and rejoin vehicle . In other embodiments user location module may also determine tickets or fare with one or more other vehicles and or transportation providers which may be communicated to user through communication device so that user may purchase travel arrangements to arrive at their destination.

Travel management module may correspond to one or more processes to execute modules and associated devices of vehicle management device to receive determine and or modify one or more travel logs for vehicle as well as receive and process itineraries and boarding tickets or travel fares for one or more passengers of vehicle e.g. user . In this regard travel management module may correspond to specialized hardware and or software utilized by vehicle management device that may receive a travel log such as by a management administrative entity of vehicle . In other embodiments travel management module may determine a travel log using itinerary boarding tickets travel fares and or other travel information for passengers of vehicle . Travel management module may store the travel log s as well as any information for user and or other passengers of vehicle to database for user by user location module .

In various embodiments one or more features of travel management module and or user location module may be incorporated in the same module so as to provide their respective features in specialized hardware and or software of one module.

In various embodiments vehicle management device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to vehicle management device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow an operator of vehicle to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network such as notifications alerts to user through communication device . As previously discussed other applications may include mapping travel calendaring scheduling Internet browser applications or other applications which for example may be utilized to determine a location of user . Other applications may include device interfaces and other display modules that may receive input and or output information. For example other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the use.

Vehicle management device may further include database stored to a transitory and or non transitory memory of vehicle management device which may store various applications and data and be utilized during execution of various modules of vehicle management device . Thus database may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with user location module travel management module and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of vehicle management device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Database may include travel logs for vehicle and connection information for wireless beacon . Information for user and or other passengers of vehicle may be stored to database such as itineraries boarding tickets paid fares contacts e.g. co passengers and or emergency contacts and or contact information.

Vehicle management device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with communication device wireless beacon and or operator device . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon and or operator device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

In environment users may have arranged travel on vehicle such as a cruise ship. Vehicle is shown as docked at a location in environment where one or more of users may have left vehicle to visit storefront . However when vehicle is scheduled to depart from the location in environment an operator may be required to account for all passengers on vehicle . Thus operator may want to know the locations of users and specifically whether users are located on vehicle . Operator may the utilize connection information for wireless beacon to determine whether users are located on vehicle .

For example user may have re entered vehicle after visiting storefront . In other embodiments user may have not exited vehicle . Thus wireless beacon may connect with communication device while user is in proximity to wireless beacon e.g. on and or within vehicle . The connection may supply an identifier for user and or communication device to wireless beacon for use in identifying user as located on within vehicle based on the connection. Wireless beacon s connection information may include the connection between communication device and wireless beacon . Thus a device managing vehicle may determine user is located on vehicle . Operator may be updated of user s location on vehicle through operator device by the device managing vehicle .

Similarly user is re entering vehicle after visiting storefront . As user passes through an entrance to vehicle communication device may come into proximity to wireless beacon . Once communication device and wireless beacon connect connection information for wireless beacon may include the connection between communication device and wireless beacon . Thus the device managing vehicle may determine that user is similarly on within or nearby vehicle and ready for departure. Thus if user has been missing from vehicle e.g. included within a missing passenger list provided to operator on operator device operator may be updated that user has re entered vehicle and is ready for departure.

However in environment user is seen as still remote from vehicle and located in storefront . While user is remote from vehicle communication device and wireless beacon will not connect based on the range limitations of wireless beacon e.g. set to only connect to devices on within and or nearby vehicle . Thus connection information for wireless beacon would not include a connection between communication device and wireless beacon . In such embodiments the device managing vehicle may determine that user is absent from vehicle . Thus the device may determine a missing passengers list with at least user and communicate the list to operator device to inform operator that user is missing and or to stop departure of vehicle . Additionally either the device or operator may attempt to contact user on communication device using contact information for user

Communication device executes a connection module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to connection module of . In this regard connection module may be utilized to connect with a wireless beacon not shown for a vehicle not shown for vehicle management device . Thus connection module includes connections which may include current connections for communication device with a wireless beacon as well as past connection information. Connections include vehicle beacon which may correspond to a wireless beacon associated with a vehicle that the user not shown of communication device is currently located on within or nearby. Vehicle beacon also includes a location which may be utilized to inform the user of the current location for the vehicle and or vehicle beacon . Connection module may further include identifiers which may be used when establishing the connection with vehicle beacon .

Vehicle management device executes a user location module corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software modules and processes described in reference to user location module of . In this regard user location module may be utilized to determine if all users are located on within and or nearby a vehicle and or whether the vehicle is ready for departure. Thus user location module includes a travel log connection information and missing passengers . Travel log may be established by a travel management module and may include passengers locations and other travel information for the vehicle associated with vehicle management device . Travel log includes passengers for vehicle A having user A and user B . User A includes at least an itinerary for user A and an identifier allowing a wireless beacon and or user location module to identify user A . Similarly user B includes an itinerary and an identifier .

User location module may access travel log for processing with connection information . Connection information includes connection information for a wireless beacon associated with a vehicle managed by vehicle management device . Connection information includes all connections made by the wireless beacon with communication devices. Thus connection information includes connection A having a connection between the wireless beacon and communication device . In addition communication device may have supplied an identifier for use in connection information . However user location module may still be unaccounted for communication device in connection information . Thus user location module may determine missing passengers having a list of missing passengers from travel log . Thus missing passengers include user B . User B may correspond to communication device and may be contacted through contact information provided vehicle management device and communication device

Thus communication device executes other applications corresponding generally to the specialized hardware and or software described in reference to other applications of . In this regard other applications may include a communication application such as a text email or messaging application configured to receive communications from vehicle management device and or an operator device for an operator of the vehicle associated with vehicle management device . Other applications include a messaging module that may include the aforementioned messages alerts and or notifications. For example messaging module includes messages alerting the user not shown of communication device e.g. user B that the user is missing from the vehicle. Messages includes a message content such as You are missing your boat that alerts the user to return to the vehicle.

At step first connection information is received via a communication module for a wireless beacon wherein the first connection information comprises at least one first connection between at least one first communication device for the at least one first passenger and the wireless beacon associated with the vehicle. The at least one first connection may use one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication WiFi communication and LTE Direct communication. The at least one first connection may comprise an identifier for at least one of the at least one first communication device and the at least one first passenger. The vehicle may comprise one of a bus a subway a train a boat a cruise ship an airplane and a limousine.

A travel log comprising the at least one first passenger for the vehicle is accessed by a user location module comprising at least one hardware processor at step . Thus at step it is determined by the user location module that the at least one first passenger is located on the vehicle using the travel log and the first connection information. The at least one first passenger may comprise all of the passengers in the travel log. Thus a notification may be generated that all of the passengers are located on the vehicle and communicated to a device for an operator of the vehicle. The device may comprise one of a center console computing unit a heads up display a tablet computer a wearable computing device and a centralized vehicle computing device.

In other embodiments the travel log may further comprise at least one second passenger for the vehicle. Thus user location module may further determine the at least one second passenger is not located on the vehicle using the travel log and the first connection information wherein the first connection information does not include at least one second connection between at least one second communication device for the at least one second passenger and the wireless beacon associated with the vehicle. A missing passenger list may be determined that comprises the at least one second passenger not located on the vehicle and communicated to the device for the operator of the vehicle. Later second connection information for the wireless beacon comprising the at least one second connection between the at least one second communication device for the at least one second passenger and the wireless beacon associated with the vehicle may be received. In such embodiments the user location module may update the missing passenger list to remove the at least one second passenger. However the missing passenger list may further comprise at least one third passenger not located on the vehicle. Thus the at least one third passenger missing from the vehicle may be communicated to the device of the operator to inform the operator of the at least one third passenger not located on the vehicle.

The user location module may further determine contact information for the at least one second user not located on the vehicle. The contact information may be communicated to the device for the operator of the vehicle. An alert comprising a time or notification of departure of the vehicle may be generated and communicated to the at least one second user using the contact information. The alert may comprise one of an SMS or MMS text message to a phone number in the contact information an email to an email address in the contact information a message to a messenger account in the contact information and a phone call to the phone number. Furthermore at least one of an emergency contact associated with the at least second passenger an authority department contact a vehicle security officer contact and a co passenger contact associated with the at least second passenger may be accessed and alerted that the second passenger is not located on the vehicle. Additionally an itinerary for the at least one second passenger may be accessed and it may be determined whether the at least one second passenger is continuing to travel on the vehicle using the itinerary.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another communication device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

