---

title: Load transfer accessory for diminishing unwanted motion of cylindrical cargo during loading operations
abstract: A load transfer accessory for a loading apparatus such as a crane. The load transfer accessory is a holding mechanism that reduces unwanted movement in cylindrical cargos. The holding mechanism includes an attachment frame, a receiving member and an indexing clutch. The receiving member includes a curved surface for receiving the cylindrical cargo. The indexing clutch can be adjustably locked by wire rope tension to clock the receiving member in a desired angular orientation for loading operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09630812&OS=09630812&RS=09630812
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09630812
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 057 729 filed Sep. 30 2014 titled Load Transfer Accessory For Diminishing Unwanted Motion Of Cylindrical Cargo During Loading Operations incorporated herein by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a load transfer accessory for a loading apparatus such as a crane. More specifically the load transfer accessory controls and reduces unwanted movement in cylindrical cargo during loading operations.

Load transfer apparatuses such as cranes typically use hooks and other known fastening devices to secure loads to the device after which the fastened load is lifted from an original position and transferred to a desired position. One common problem associated with load transfer apparatuses is that the lifted load tends to swing freely like a pendulum. When cargo swings in this manner difficulty will naturally be experienced in transferring and lowering the cargo accurately to the desired position.

This problem is compounded when the cargo is delicate or a special care item. Additionally cargo articles having different shapes may each display unique balance related swinging motions on account of their respective shapes. For example cargo having cylindrical shapes may swing more uncontrollably because of the elongated longitudinal axis. Preventing unwanted cargo swinging is further compounded in situations when the load transfer apparatus is mounted on a water vessel such as a barge or small boat or the like. There is more movement not associated with land based operations because the load transfer apparatus is on water even when the water is calm. Thus it is desired to have a load transfer apparatus that reduces undesired movement of the load during load transfer operations particularly undesired movement associated with loads having cylindrical shapes.

In one aspect the invention is a load transferring apparatus having a boom and a jib pivotally attached to the boom. The load transferring apparatus also includes a holding mechanism for controllably receiving cylindrical cargo and diminishing undesired motion of said cylindrical cargo. In this aspect the holding mechanism has an attachment frame pivotally attached at a pivot point to the jib. The holding mechanism also includes a receiving member for receiving cylindrical cargo thereon. The receiving member has a curved inner surface wherein the curved inner surface has a radius of curvature that is substantially equal to the radius of curvature of said cylindrical cargo. In this aspect the holding mechanism also includes an indexing clutch or connected to and between the attachment frame and the receiving member. The indexing clutch has an upper plate having a bottom surface having a plurality of downward projecting ridges and a lower plate having a top surface having a plurality of upward projecting ridges for mating with the downward projecting ridges of the upper member to lock the upper plate with respect to the lower member at different positions to clock the receiving member in a desired angular orientation. Each of the attachment frame the upper and lower plates of the indexing arrangement and the receiving member have a central opening that forms a central pathway. In this aspect the load transfer apparatus also has a winch and a cable having a hook at one end and attached to the winch at another. The cable extends from the winch at one end through the central pathway with the hook positioned below the receiving member for hooking the cylindrical cargo. In this aspect when the winch is activated the cylindrical cargo is pulled against the receiving member thereby holding said cylindrical cargo against the curved inner surface.

In another aspect the invention is a holding mechanism for controllably receiving cylindrical cargo and diminishing undesired motion of said cylindrical cargo. The holding mechanism has an attachment frame pivotally attached at a pivot point to a jib of a load transferring apparatus. In this aspect the holding mechanism also includes a receiving member for receiving cylindrical cargo thereon the receiving member having a curved inner surface wherein the curved inner surface has a radius of curvature that is substantially equal to the radius of curvature of the cylindrical cargo. The holding mechanism also includes an indexing clutch connected to and between the attachment frame and the receiving member. The indexing clutch has an upper plate having a bottom surface having a plurality of downward projecting ridges and a lower plate having a top surface having a plurality of upward projecting ridges for mating with the downward projecting ridges of the upper member to lock the upper plate with respect to the lower member at different positions to clock the receiving member in a desired angular orientation. Each of the attachment frame the upper and lower plates of the indexing arrangement and the receiving member have a central opening that forms a central pathway. In this aspect the holding mechanism also has a cable having a hook at one end and attached to a winch at another. The cable extends from the winch at one end through the central pathway with the hook positioned below the receiving member for hooking the cylindrical cargo. When the winch is activated the cylindrical cargo is pulled against the receiving member thereby holding the cylindrical cargo against the curved inner surface.

As shown the load transfer apparatus is mounted on a platform . According to an embodiment of the invention the platform is a floating platform such as a barge or small boat or other vessel that is on open water. As outlined below the load transfer apparatus equipped with the holding mechanism is structured to controllably receive cylindrical cargo preventing undesired swinging of the cylindrical cargo even in embodiments when conditions are difficult because the load transferring operations being performed on open water. It should be noted that in embodiments in which the platform is floating on open water the adjustability outlined above such as the ability to rotate in directions A and B facilitates easy loading. For example the rotation direction B which adjusts the angle between the boom and the jib facilitates the capturing of loads below in the water when angle is less than 90 degrees.

As shown the holding mechanism has an attachment frame which attaches the holding mechanism to the load transfer apparatus . shows the attachment frame pivotally attached to the jib . As outlined below unwanted pivoting between the attachment frame and the jib is significantly reduced by the tensioning of the cable and the weight of the cylindrical cargo .

In order to properly receive the cylindrical cargo the curvature of the receiving member must match the curvature of the cylindrical cargo . Consequently each of the curved outer shell and the curved inner surface have a radius of curvature that is substantially equal to the radius of curvature of the cylindrical cargo . is an exemplary side view of the receiving member and a cylindrical cargo showing substantially the surfaces and having a radius of curvature that is substantially equal to the radius of curvature of the cylindrical cargo. shows both the receiving member and the cylindrical cargo having a radius of curvature Rn where n is any desired value. According to one embodiment n 8.63.

Returning to as illustrated the holding mechanism also includes an indexing clutch . As shown the indexing clutch is positioned between the attachment frame and the receiving member . shows the indexing clutch having an upper plate and a lower plate rotatably indexable with respect to each other. Both the upper and lower plates and may preferably be a solid foam material such as a low density polyethylene covered by a polyurethane top coat. The height of the indexing clutch teeth may be adjusted to suit the resistance to rotation required by the dynamic forces associated with the platform in a seaway and the tendency of the load to rotate and sway in an uncontrolled manner. As outlined below the plates and are used to rotate the receiving member to a desired orientation about an axis Y as shown by arrow D. According to an embodiment of the invention the upper and lower plates and may be rotated manually.

It should be noted that at some point before the cable pulls in the cylindrical cargo against the receiving member the indexing clutch is adjusted to align the receiving member with the cylindrical cargo . As outlined above the upper and lower plates and are rotated with respect to each other locking the respective downward projecting ridges and upward projecting ridges clocking the upper member with respect to the lower member at a desired angular orientation. This results in the receiving member being oriented about the Y axis in proper alignment with the cylindrical cargo . With this alignment the cylindrical cargo is properly cradled within the receiving member and because the receiving member and the cylindrical cargo have substantially the same radius of curvature Rn the cradling is precise which adds stability to the load transfer process diminishing undesired rocking or swaying of the cylindrical cargo .

This total t compression is represented as a segment of the cable shown in i.e. the extra distance the cable travels due to the total compression. By travelling this t distance the cable provides a reaction time s for a manual operator to stop the winch and thereby stopping the winding of the cable . Thus in operation an operator has s time to stop the winch which represents the time the cylindrical cargo is initially contacts the receiving member to the time the compression t is completed. This reaction time may be increased by increasing the thickness of the foam members i.e. the upper member the lower member and inner surface . In other words a larger t value results in a larger t resulting in a larger s reaction time. The greater the reaction time the greater the ability to stop the winch before any potential damage is done to the cylindrical cargo by pulling it too hard against the receiving member . Consequently for the form members outlined above a foam with an appropriate thickness t is selected so that the cradling process does not damage the cylindrical cargo . As outlined above the cylindrical cargo may be any type of cargo such as a container a construction pipe or a water vessel having a cylindrical shape. It should be noted that the winch may also be controlled automatically by a controller that utilizes the t and s variables in programming an automatic cut off for the winch .

The embodiment of differs from the illustration of in that the cable extends from the central pathway in the holding mechanism to a wheel located in the jib the wheel redirecting the path of the cable towards the winch . Thus the cable extends within the jib . As with the embodiment of the hook end of the cable extends out of the receiving member .

Regarding the operation of the loading apparatus and holding mechanism as shown in the operation is also defined as outlined with respect to . Thus for example as illustrated in when the winch is activated the cable running through the jib and central pathway draws the cylindrical cargo upwards until it contacts the foam curved inner surface of the receiving member . Also as with the illustration of the embodiment because of t t tcompressions in the upper member the lower member and inner surface respectively resulting in an overall compression of t. This combined compression translates to a reaction time s for a manual operator to stop the winch .

Regarding the limiting the motion of the cylindrical cargo as outlined in the embodiment of utilizes the forces T and L as outlined above. However the physical structure of the apparatus shown in also prevents undue rotation of the holding mechanism with respect to the jib . shows a limited rotation arc E between the jib and the upper plate of the indexing clutch. During the tensioning of the cable the holding apparatus may rotate. However there is no rotation beyond the arc D because the upper plate would abut against the jib preventing any further rotation. This feature adds stability to both the apparatus and the loading procedure.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example as stated above the holding mechanism may be quickly installed when the mission dictates the at sea recovery of a cylindrical load such as a water vessel. Thus the standard crane hook may be removed and the holding mechanism may be used by inserting an attachment device such as a pin . Alternatively the load transfer apparatus may be manufactured with a non replaceable holding mechanism . Also for example the indexing clutch may be replaced by mating high friction surfaces that also lock at desired positions thereby clocking the receiving member at a desired angular orientation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

