---

title: Dual channel pumping method laser with metal vapor and noble gas medium
abstract: A laser pumping method pumps a primary amount of energy into the near red satellite band of a metal vapor and noble gas mixture laser medium and a lesser amount of energy is pumped into a highly excited level to stimulate laser output. The medium is can be a Rb vapor and Xe gas mixture. The lesser amount of energy is pumped into the laser medium to populate an excited level that lies above the upper laser level and transfers atomic or molecular population to the upper laser level by a nonradiative process. In preferred embodiments, the intermediate level is within a few kT of the upper laser level and the primary amount of energy is a large majority of the total energy. A laser device includes metal vapor and noble gas mixture laser medium to populate an intermediate level near an upper laser level, and pumping a lesser amount of energy into a highly excited level to stimulate laser output. The medium can be an Rb vapor and Xe gas mixture in preferred embodiments. A primary energy pump pumps population in a near red satellite band. A second energy pump having substantially less energy than the primary energy pump pumps population to a highly excited level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106052&OS=09106052&RS=09106052
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09106052
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140107
---
The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 749 859 which was filed Jan. 7 2013.

This invention was made with government support under grant no. FA95550 10 1 0456 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The field of the invention is lasers. The invention can be applied for example to infrared visible and ultraviolet lasers and is suitable to be used in solid state gas and liquid lasers. A preferred application of the invention is to high power lasers e.g. YAG lasers dye lasers and to Ti Sapphire lasers.

Generating stimulated emission normally requires that a population inversion be established between two energy levels also referred to as states in the art of an atom or molecule. Populating the upper laser level cannot be accomplished directly from the lower laser level but rather requires the presence of at least one highly excited level through the pumping process and pump power must flow. Three level laser systems employ one highly excited level and lasing can occur between two excited levels or alternatively the lasing transition can terminate at ground. illustrates the principles of a three level system in which the ground level of the lasing species is the terminus of the lasing transition.

From a conceptual perspective three level systems are the simplest in existence and provide a convenient example to illustrated laser pumping theory. Virtually all three level lasers demonstrated to date and all continuous wave CW lasers have the generalized energy structure illustrated in . An electrical or optical pump source excites and transfers atoms or molecules from Level sometimes referred to as a lower laser level to Level sometimes referred to as a highly excited level . Following a fast radiationless relaxation of the Level population to Level sometimes referred to as an upper or upper metastable laser level by any of a variety of processes collisions multiphonon interactions fluorescence etc. lasing occurs on the 3 1 transition via a relatively slow transition. Although this simple system has proven to be highly successful and provided practically useful devices for many applications it often suffers from several drawbacks. The drawbacks include low quantum efficiency and inefficient relaxation of Level .

The quantum efficiency for the laser of is limited by E the energy separation between Levels and . A significant difficulty is that the energy E is dissipated as heat. That is the fraction 

High power lasers that are continuous or have a duty cycle the percentage of time that the laser is operational greater than 5 10 present different problems. In continuous and high duty cycle lasers the rejection of heat resulting from E in can be and generally is a serious problem. At a minimum heating of the laser medium will distort the output laser beam. In cases where the laser medium is a crystal catastrophic damage of the crystal can result. Inefficient relaxation is also another problem. The excitation transfer step radiationless transition from Level to Level is difficult to implement as hydrocarbon which is used to relax the population from Level to Level causes pyrolyzing problems that produces soot in the laser.

Efficiently relaxing the population of Level into Level can also present serious engineering issues. For example three level lasers in the akali atoms Cs and Rb have been developed that require the use of a hydrocarbon molecule such as ethane CH to relax the population of Level into Level . However because the laser medium must be heated so as to obtain a suitable pressure of the alkali metal vapor the hydrocarbon will slowly pyrolyze decompose as the temperature system is raised.

DPAL diode pumped alkali lasers are a newer class of laser that pump atomic alkali vapors with diode arrays. See e.g. Krupke et al Multimode diode pumped gas alkali vapor laser Optics Letters Vol. 31 Issue 3 pp. 353 355 2006 . In that example a volume Bragg grating stabilized pump diode array pumped Rb vapor. The laser operated on the 795 nm resonance D lasing transition. Prior work by Krupke et al. used a titanium sapphire laser as a pump to create population inversions and laser operation on the 795 nm resonance D lasing transition of Rb. These laser systems also pump the 1 2 transition.

Increasing the DPAL lasers to the kW power level and beyond would be difficult. Various engineering barriers exist. For example the Rb DLinewidth broadened by 1 atm He or ethane 10 GHz. Linewidth narrowing is needed with volume Bragg gratings. Electronic stabilization of the diode array wavelength is also required.

The laser transition defines different types of laser system. In conventional three level systems the laser transition is to ground Level the lower laser level in a three level system . There are also four level laser systems. An example medium that provides four level operation is Nd YAG. In a conventional four level laser the laser transition is to a lower laser level slightly above the ground level. A natural depopulation then occurs to the ground level and this is another fast radiationless transition. In the conventional three and four level systems the population inversion is achieved in the same manner. Energy pumps population from 1 2 as shown in with respect to a three level laser.

Some lasers are optically pumped e.g. the DPAL lasers that are pumped with diode arrays. The 1 2 pumping transition of presents another potential obstacle to obtaining efficient operation of the laser system when the system is optically pumped. In an optically pumped system the pumping transition from 1 2 suffers from poor absorption. Pump energy is wasted rendering the laser system less efficient.

Verdeyen Eden Carroll Readle and Wagner U.S. Pat. No. 7 804 877 is directed toward Atomic Lasers with Exciplex Assisted Absorption. In the 877 Patent the optical cavity includes a van der Waals complex of an alkali vapor joined with a polarizable rare gas. The pair is referred to as an exciplex. An example pair is the CsAr pair illustrated in FIG. 6 of the 877 Patent. The generalized pair is illustrated in FIG. 5. The primary examples are alkali rare gas pairs though mercury and other polarizable molecules such as ethane and methane are identified as possible substitutes for the polarizable rare gas molecule. The alkali rare gas atomic pairs are photo pumped in the band known as the blue satellite for the D2 transition of the alkali atom. As a result the atomic pair is excited promoted in energy to the repulsive B state of the alkali rare gas diatomic molecule. The rapid dissociation of the molecules in this B state results in populating an excited state of the alkali atom that serves as the upper state for the D2 transition of the alkali atom. A similar process can be used to populate higher lying excited states of the alkali atom. Lasing is obtained on at least two transitions of an alkali atom without necessity of collision relaxation of one level to the other. Rapid dissociation of the alkali rare gas molecule is used to populate the upper laser level. The lasers and pumping method of the 877 Patent use a single pump that is away from the atomic resonance on the satellite band. In a transversely pumped example of FIG. 11 diodes are on opposite sides of the medium but this is for uniform pumping and is in the satellite band.

Efficient operation or any lasing at all within the methods of the 877 Patent requires that the separation in energy between the selected satellite pump band and laser photons must be greater than or comparable to kT thermal energy . An example consistent with the methods and systems of the 877 Patent is shown in which is an absorption spectrum recorded for a mixture of rubidium Rb vapor and Xe gas. The optical transmission through a column of this vapor gas mixture is given as a function of wavelength in the 755 785 nm spectral region. Absorption increases downward in this graph and the positions of the D2 line of Rb wavelength of approximately 780 nm and the blue satellite of the D2 line of Rb in Xe are also indicated. The energy separation between the peak of the blue satellite and the D2 line position is 337 wavenumbers 1 cm or approximately 42 meV which is 7 greater than kT for the temperature 473 K 200 degrees Centigrade at which the data of were obtained. Consequently because the separation between the blue satellite of the D2 line and the D2 line itself is more than kT in energy optically pumping the blue satellite results in lasing on the D2 line. If the system is pumped closer to the D2 line for example between 765 and 780 nm in lasing will not occur.

Most research efforts are directed toward improving the performance of traditional three and four level laser systems by enhancing the efficiency of the pumping mechanism. It is well known that a population inversion is necessary to realize a laser but that direct pumping of the upper laser level from the lower laser level which can be ground level or an elevated level will not yield a population inversion between the two levels. Instead the two levels can be equalized in theory that assumes use of an infinite pump source. Thus theory instructs that a two level system cannot be inverted i.e. the population of the more energetic of the two levels cannot exceed that for the lower of the two levels. With a strong pump source the populations of the two levels can at best be equalized. This fails to produce the population inversion needed for lasing.

An embodiment of the invention is a laser pumping method. In the method a primary amount of energy is pumped into the near red satellite band of a metal vapor and noble gas mixture laser medium and a lesser amount of energy is pumped into a highly excited level to stimulate laser output. The medium is an Rb vapor and Xe gas mixture in preferred embodiments. The lesser amount of energy is pumped into the laser medium to populate the highly excited level that lies above the upper laser level and transfers atomic or molecular population to the upper laser level by a nonradiative process. In preferred embodiments the intermediate level is within a few kT of the upper laser level and the primary amount of energy is a large majority of the total energy.

An embodiment of the invention is a laser device. The device includes metal vapor and noble gas mixture laser medium to populate an intermediate level near an upper laser level and pumping a lesser amount of energy into a highly excited level to stimulate laser output. The medium is an Rb vapor and Xe gas mixture in preferred embodiments. A primary energy pump pumps population in a near red satellite band. A second energy pump having substantially less energy than the primary energy pump pumps population to a highly excited level.

A method of the invention is a laser pumping method. In the laser pumping method of the invention a primary pump populates an intermediate level that is near measured by thermal energy of the upper laser level Level in . The primary pump preferably delivers a large majority of the total pump power to an intermediate level that lies within a few kT where kT is the thermal energy of the laser level. A secondary pump pumps significantly less power to a level a level from which a fast transition occurs to the laser level Level in that is an excited level above the upper laser level corresponding to a conventional highly excited level .

The invention directs most power toward pumping to the intermediate level that exists near the upper laser level within a few kT in a laser medium that supports the intermediate level. In methods of the invention most of the available pump power is devoted to driving a two level system but a second weaker pump is directed toward populating the upper laser level by another route. The second weaker pump induces stimulated emission on the desired transition rather than the transition driven by the strong pump and is thus able to drive the system over threshold producing lasing. Without the secondary pump the strong pump alone will produce no lasing on the desired transition because the strong pump alone would be driving a two level system. This also provides a control method that can use relatively small amounts of energy to switch the laser via control of the secondary pump.

Methods of the invention contradict the manner in which three and four level lasing systems have been pumped for the past 50 years. However methods of the invention can produce more efficient lasers of higher average power than known lasers.

Preferred embodiments of the invention provide large pump acceptance bandwidths typically 5 nm while avoiding the need for diode binning line narrowing and phase locking.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale.

Example embodiments use an optically pumped system. The primary pump and secondary pump are then realized with two different wavelengths e.g. two colors.

A method of the invention is illustrated in for a three level laser of the invention. Level is the ground level Level is an excited level from which population is typically transferred to upper laser level by a nonradiative process. The intermediate level lies within a few kT of the upper laser level . While shown below the upper laser level it can also be above upper laser level . When the intermediate level is below the upper laser level then cooling of the laser medium is provided as an additional benefit. This represents a particularly preferred embodiment and is especially advantageous for high power lasers.

In Level lies slightly above or below the upper laser level Level . Levels and can be considered thermally mixed and effectively act in some respects as a single level. The energy separation between and is E which is on the order of thermal energy a few kT or less. Not only is Level in proximity to Level but a laser medium supports that level can be pumped efficiently from Level . Advantageously this implies that the absorption coefficient associated with the 1 4 transition in is large. This contrasts with the traditional weak 1 2 transition.

In preferred embodiments optical pumping is used as illustrated in . Two different wavelengths channels of pumping light provide a two color approach. Most of the power is delivered to the laser medium by the Primary Pump. For example in one embodiment 90 of pump power is provided to the primary pump and 10 to the secondary pump. This contrasts with typical lasers where all pump power is devoted toward populating Level . In the invention the burden of populating the intermediate level that is proximate the laser level is carried by the primary pump as illustrated in . Considerably less power is delivered to the laser medium by the secondary pump which drives the 1 2 transition.

The method of can be much more efficient than typical pumping compared to the conventional pumping of and especially in the case of high power lasers. With the intermediate level being within a few kT of the laser Level the population of Level is very efficiently transferred to Level by collisions for a gas phase laser or photon interactions in a solid . Therefore when lasing begins energy stored in Levels and will be extracted efficiently.

The preferred embodiment of provides an important additional advantage. Because Level lies below Level in the embodiment of lasing on the 3 1 transition will actually cool the laser medium slightly. That is each laser photon emitted by the medium removes E in energy thereby lowering the medium temperature slightly. This is an enormous asset for high power lasers tens of watts . Conventional high power lasers have significant cooling problems that generally increase with higher pumping levels. The method of dramatically reduces the dependence upon the 1 2 pumping transition and its well known poor quantum efficiency.

Additionally the 1 4 transition is that the quantum efficiency associated with pumping the 1 4 transition can be for example 90 to more than 100 . The system requires the secondary pump. Lasing is not normally obtainable on the 3 1 transition when pumping on the 1 4 transition alone because levels and are essentially degenerate. The primary pump can drive the system to the threshold of lasing basically close to or at optical transparency and the secondary pump drives the system over threshold. Advantageously the strong 1 4 transition populates Levels and efficiently while simultaneously cooling the laser medium. Levels and are effectively mixed because energy separation between and is E which is on the order of thermal energy a few kT or less.

The laser medium used must provide level . Atomic and molecular systems can provide level structure of and some have been used in spectroscopy. The invention can for example provide high power lasers in both gas and solid state systems. As a specific example alkali rare gas diatomics are well matched to the energy diagram.

Preferred embodiments are atomic lasers by the dissociation of an alkali rare gas complex such as Cs Ar and Cs Ar Xe mixtures. is a diagram illustrating energy as a function of the internuclear separation for Cs Ar. A level normal pump band 837 nm is and the laser level metastable level at 852.1 nm. In the invention a primary pump is pumped within a broad red shoulder of the Dtransition that is available in the 852 854 nm range. The shoulder is illustrated in . The Red shoulder strongly populates Cs 6 P Level Dline upper level . illustrates a thermally mixed Level that can be pumped with the invention. Pumping can be on the Dline or region between Dand Dtransitions. There is a Rapid 4 P 4 Ptransfer E 57 cm .

One particular embodiment of the invention is an improvement of the laser system of . An objective of the present invention is providing lasing efficiently while still pumping a state lying within kT of the upper laser level. illustrates such a system. The absorption spectrum is similar to that of for a mixture of metal vapor and noble gas in particular an embodiment with Rb vapor and Xe gas but recorded over the 775 798 nm region. Transmission of 1.0 corresponds to no absorption by the metal vapor gas mixture. The spectrum of does not completely and accurately represent the Rb D2 and D1 absorption profiles because absorption at these wavelengths 780 and 795 nm respectively is clearly saturated. A more accurate unsaturated absorption spectrum for the Rb Xe system in this wavelength region is shown in . The purpose of is to indicate the positions and spectral widths of the red satellites associated with the D1 and D2 lines of an alkali atom Rb in this case in an alkali rare gas mixture. Artisans will note for example that the width of the D2 red satellite determined by deconvolution from the D2 line profile itself is roughly 1 nm. Such a width allows for optical pumping with semiconductor diode lasers without the requirement for line narrowing. One particular embodiment uses the of this invention is to photopump as the primary pump for example the D2 red satellite that peaks at approximately 781.4 nm and also pump as the secondary pump the blue satellite 760 nm simultaneously in order to obtain lasing on the Rb D2 line at 780 nm. With the invention pumping the D2 red satellite with the majority of pumping power populates a state lying below the upper state for the D2 line. Every photon absorbed at 781.4 nm red satellite that also produces a laser photon at 780 nm and advantageously results in a slight cooling of the medium.

With reference to another embodiment of the invention is achieved by primarily photo pumping the D1 red satellite and secondarily photo pumping one of the D2 red satellite the D2 blue satellite or the D2 line directly which obtains lasing on the D1 line 795 nm . The primary amount of the required pump power is delivered into the red D1 satellite which if pumped alone would not result in lasing on the D1 line of Rb.

Artisans will recognize that the examples provide guidance for the selection and testing of particular laser media that can provide the necessary Level to implement the invention. Artisans will recognize that other laser mediums can be used and support the invention.

Testing is expected to reveal for example that tens of watts at 852.1 nm or 894.3 nm in the near infrared can be generated with the invention when Cs Ar Xe mixtures are pumped by semiconductor laser bars. Combined with frequency doubling this laser is modeled to yield more than 10 watts of violet 426 or 447 nm . This is a region of the spectrum for which few powerful sources exist. This can be provided in a compact physical form having a volume of less than about 1 ft. This laser is well suited for many applications examples of which include photochemical processing displays used to pump RGB sources and digital optical disk mastering. The invention is also applicable to high value solid state lasers such as the Nd and Er systems. In such systems the invention can reduce thermal loading of the crystal. In conventional Nd Er and other solid state systems thermal loading is an important performance limiting issues that causes distortion in the spatial profile of the laser beam.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

