---

title: Systems and methods for interactive media content exchange
abstract: Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can cause a first computing system to receive an obscured version of a first media content item from a second computing system. Access to the obscured version of the first media content item can be provided by the first computing system. Access to an unobscured version of the first media content item can be prevented by the first computing system. An unobscured version of a second media content item can be acquired by the first computing system using at least one sensor. The first computing system can transmit to the second computing system at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or an obscured version of the second media content item generated based on the unobscured version. Access to the unobscured version of the first media content item can be provided by the first computing system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537934&OS=09537934&RS=09537934
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09537934
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140403
---
The present technology relates to the field of content sharing. More particularly the present technology provides techniques for interactively exchanging media content.

The use of computing devices is becoming increasingly commonplace. Users of computing devices often browse web sites access online content interact with social networks or perform a wide variety of tasks. Users can utilize computing devices to engage in communication. For example under conventional approaches a sending user can transmit a first text message to a recipient user. The recipient user can receive the first text message transmitted by the sending user. Upon receiving the first text message the recipient user can view read access or otherwise interact with the first text message. Moreover the recipient user can decide to respond to the first text message by transmitting a second text message back to the original sending user. The original sending user can receive the second text message and can view read access or otherwise interact with the second text message.

In another example under conventional approaches the sending user can transmit media content such as images audio videos and text to the recipient. The recipient user can receive the media content and can access view or otherwise interact with the media content upon receipt. However conventional approaches to communications can be uninteresting boring or not sufficiently interactive. These and other similar concerns can reduce or create challenges for the overall user experience associated with using computing devices to engage in communication.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can include systems methods and non transitory computer readable media configured to cause a first computing system to receive an obscured version of a first media content item from a second computing system. Access to the obscured version of the first media content item can be provided by the first computing system. Access to an unobscured version of the first media content item can be prevented by the first computing system. Moreover an unobscured version of a second media content item can be acquired by the first computing system using at least one sensor of the first computing system. The first computing system can transmit to the second computing system at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or an obscured version of the second media content item generated based on the unobscured version of the second media content item. Access to the unobscured version of the first media content item can be provided by the first computing system.

In one embodiment the unobscured version of the first media content item can be received by the first computing system within an allowable time period from when the obscured version of the first media content item is received.

In one embodiment a notification indicating that the obscured version of the first media content item is received from the second computing system can be presented by the first computing system. The notification can be presented before providing access to the obscured version of the first media content item but after the unobscured version of the first media content item is received.

In one embodiment providing access to the unobscured version of the first media content item can be performed within an allowable time period from when the obscured version of the second media content item is transmitted to the second computing system.

In one embodiment an obscured version of a third media content item can be received by the first computing system from a third computing system prior to transmitting the obscured version of the second media content item to the second computing system. Access to the obscured version of the third media content item can be provided by the first computing system. Access to an unobscured version of the third media content item can be prevented by the first computing system. The first computing system can transmit to the third computing system at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or the obscured version of the second media content item. Access to the unobscured version of the third media content item can be provided within an allowable time period from when the at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or the obscured version of the second media content item is transmitted to the third computing system.

In one embodiment the obscured version of the first media content item can be received before the obscured version of the third media content item is received. Further providing access to the obscured version of the first media content item can include displaying the obscured version of the first media content item at a first position on a display screen of the first computing system. Providing access to the obscured version of the third media content item can include displaying the obscured version of the third media content item in a second position above the first position.

In one embodiment the obscured version of the first media content item can be received before the obscured version of the third media content item is received. Providing access to the unobscured version of the first media content item can include presenting in a first layer of a virtual stack a displayed representation of the unobscured version of the first media content item on a display screen of the first computing system. Moreover providing access to the unobscured version of the third media content item can include presenting in a second layer below the first layer in the virtual stack a displayed representation of the unobscured version of the third media content item.

In one embodiment at least one user interaction to move the displayed representation of the unobscured version of the first media content item presented in the first layer can be received. The displayed representation of the unobscured version of the first media content item can be moved based on one or more movements associated with the at least one user interaction.

In one embodiment the one or more movements can be associated with at least one of a flicking gesture a swiping gesture a throwing gesture or a tossing gesture. The displayed representation of the unobscured version of the first media content item can be moved off the display screen of first computing system. An instance of the unobscured version of the first media content item can be permanently removed from the first computing system. Further the displayed representation of the unobscured version of the third media content item can be presented on the display screen in full view.

In one embodiment each of the obscured version of the first media content item and the obscured version of the second media content item can include at least one of a pixelated media content item a blurred media content item a censored media content item an obstructed media content item a shrunken media content item a watermarked media content item or a visibly unclear media content item.

In one embodiment the unobscured version of the second media content item can be modified before generating the obscured version of the second media content.

In one embodiment modifying the unobscured version of the second media content item can be based on at least one of a drawing a sticker a stamp an image filter a photo effect a visual crop a playback edit e.g. playback length trim playback speed modification etc. a caption or a tag.

In one embodiment providing access to the obscured version of the first media content item can include providing access to data associated with the first media content item.

In one embodiment the data associated with the first media content can include at least one of a caption a tag a property metadata or contextual information.

In one embodiment the at least one sensor can include at least one of a front facing camera or a rear facing camera.

In one embodiment one of the front facing camera or the rear facing camera can be selected based on a user action to be used for acquiring the unobscured version of the second media content. Moreover the user action can be evaluated with respect to a digital button represented by text e.g. Selfie .

In one embodiment providing access to the unobscured version of the first media content item can include presenting the unobscured version of the first media content item over time.

In one embodiment each of the first media content item and the second media content item can include at least one of an image a video or a graphics interchange format GIF .

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the disclosed technology for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures can be employed without departing from the principles of the disclosed technology described herein.

People often communicate or exchange information using computing devices or systems . Conventional approaches to communicating via computing devices can include text messaging such as short message service SMS and multimedia messaging service MMS . For example under conventional approaches a first computing device can transmit a communication including text images audio and or video etc. to a second computing device over a cellular or local network. The second computing device can receive the communication and immediately or almost immediately view access or otherwise interact with the content included in the communication.

Content associated with these conventional approaches to communication can be considered as being provided for free in that the recipient of the content can access view or interact with the content upon receipt of the content without any significant effort. For example when a recipient computing device receives an image a user of the computing device can select click or tap on etc. the image to view and or download the image.

As such conventional approaches generally involve a sending party creating or producing content and then sending the created or produced content to a receiving party. The receiving party receives and consumes e.g. uses views accesses interacts with etc. the content. However these and other similar types of conventional approaches to providing communications can be boring uninteresting and or not sufficiently interactive. Various embodiments of the present disclosure can utilize computing devices or systems to provide for interactively exchanging media content.

In the example of the one or more computing devices can include a first computing device e.g. computing device A and a second computing device e.g. computing device B . Computing device A can comprise at least one processor at least one display at least one sensor and at least one data store . Similarly computing device B can also comprise at least one processor at least one display at least one sensor and at least one data store . For each computing device e.g. computing device A computing device B etc. the at least one processor e.g. processor processor etc. can facilitate various operations of the respective device. Each of the display elements and can be configured to display or present visual content. Each of the sensors and can be configured to acquire gather determine and or detect data. In some cases each of sensors and can include but is not limited to at least one of a touch sensor e.g. touch display an audio sensor e.g. microphone or an image sensor e.g. camera an accelerometer a gyroscope a locational sensor e.g. GPS etc. Moreover the data stores and can be configured to store information associated with operations of the computing devices.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can provide a pay to play approach to interactively sharing or exchanging content. For example a recipient of content which is included in a received communication must pay a cost or exert some specified effort such as by providing additional content in a reply to the received communication in order to fully access the content in the received communication.

With reference to in some embodiments an interactive content exchange module component included with computing device A can cause computing device A to acquire a first media content item e.g. image video etc. using the at least one sensor e.g. camera . For example a user of computing device A can initiate and utilize the interactive content exchange component to cause a front facing and or rear facing camera on computing device A to take a photo or video. The acquired first media content item e.g. photo video etc. can correspond to an original full resolution and or unobscured e.g. substantially clear unaltered etc. version of the first media content item. In some implementations the interactive content exchange module can cause computing device A to generate an obscured e.g. pixelated blurred censored obstructed shrunken visibly unclear etc. version of the first media content item based on the unobscured version. In some implementations the interactive content exchange module can cause computing device A to transmit the unobscured and or full resolution version of the first media content item to the media server and the media server can generate the obscured version of the first media content item based on the unobscured version.

Furthermore the interactive content exchange module can cause computing device A to transmit the obscured and unobscured versions of the first media content item to computing device B . In some embodiments the transmission of the obscured and unobscured versions of the first media content item from computing device A to computing device B can be performed via the media server . For example the media server can relay communications including content between computing device A and computing device B .

When computing device B receives the obscured e.g. pixelated shrunken etc. and unobscured e.g. substantially clear full resolution etc. versions of the first media content item an interactive content exchange module component can enable computing device B to provide access to the obscured version of the first media content item while preventing access to the unobscured version of the first media content item. The obscured version of the first media content item can correspond to a pixelated shrunken thumbnail preview of the unobscured and or full resolution version of the first content item. Often times the obscured version can hook or grab the interest and or attention of a user of computing device B without permitting the user to access the unobscured e.g. full resolution substantially clear original etc. version of the first media content item. As such the user of computing device B might desire to see the unobscured version of the first media content item.

In order to access the unobscured version of the first media content item the interactive content exchange module can enable the user of computing device B to utilize the at least one sensor e.g. front facing camera rear facing camera etc. to acquire a second media content item e.g. image video etc. which can correspond to an unobscured e.g. full resolution original unaltered etc. version. The interactive content exchange module can cause computing device B or media server to generate an obscured version of the second media content item based on the unobscured version. The user of computing device B can choose to send the unobscured and obscured versions of the second media content item back to computing device A e.g. via media server . In response to sending the second media content item to computing device A the interactive content exchange module can enable computing device B to provide access to the unobscured version of the first media content item. The process of receiving obscured content sending content in a subsequent response and then receiving access to unobscured content can repeat. For example in order for the user of computing device A to view the unobscured version of the second media content item the user of computing device A has to acquire and send a third media content item to computing device B or the user of computing device B .

Accordingly in some embodiments the media server of can be optional. In one example scenario the interactive content exchange component can cause computing device A to capture an original image which can be at full resolution and can be substantially clear. The interactive content exchange component can cause computing device A to apply one or more obscuring techniques to the original image to produce an obscured e.g. pixelated shrunken etc. version of the image. The interactive content exchange component can further cause computing device A to send the unobscured and obscured versions of the image to computing device B . Upon receipt of the unobscured and obscured versions of the image by computing device B the interactive content exchange component can cause computing device B to provide access only to the obscured version of the image. In order to access the unobscured version of the image computing device B has to further acquire another image obscure the other image and transmit the unobscured and obscured versions of the other image back to computing device A . This process can repeat over time resulting in a plurality of media content items being interactively exchanged in a pay to play manner.

In some embodiments the computing device can be configured to run an interactive content exchange application. In some cases the interactive content exchange application can be associated with an interactive content exchange component e.g. interactive content exchange module or interactive content exchange module in and . In one example the interactive content exchange application can initiate a camera mode. The camera mode can provide a view of whatever imagery a selected camera e.g. front facing camera rear facing camera etc. currently sees or detects.

As shown in the camera mode of the interactive content exchange application can provide various user interface elements including but not limited to an icon or button for configuring flash an icon for recording and an icon for switching cameras. In some cases the icon or button for configuring flash can correspond to a text icon including the text Flash . The icon for recording can start and stop the recording of images or videos. In some cases the icon for switching cameras can correspond to a text icon including the text Selfie which can be a term that refers to a picture of oneself. In some implementations pressing tapping or otherwise interacting with the Selfie icon or button can switch the camera that is in currently use for example from the rear facing camera to the front facing camera .

In one example when a communication including an obscured media content item is received from another computing device a notification can be presented by the interactive content exchange application. In the notification can indicate that the communication which can also be referred to as a Shot is received from a user named Joe . In some cases the notification can be presented when both the obscured version and the unobscured version of the media content item have been received e.g. completely downloaded . Continuing with the example a user of the computing device can tap on click on or otherwise interact with the notification and or device in order to obtain more information about the communication e.g. Shot from Joe .

In the example of four outstanding Shots are shown. The outstanding Shots can for example be displayed or listed from most recently received to least recently received or vice versa . In this example the first outstanding Shot can include an obscured e.g. pixelated version of a first media content item e.g. image video etc. received from John Doe . The first outstanding Shot can also be associated with metadata such as a date or time when the first media content item and or the first outstanding Shot was created.

The second outstanding Shot can include an obscured version of a second media content item received from or sent by Jane Doe . The second outstanding Shot can include information indicating that the second media content item and or the second outstanding Shot was created in a certain location e.g. San Francisco Calif. .

Continuing with the example of the third outstanding Shot can include an obscured version of a third media content item received from Joe Schmoe and a caption e.g. Be Happy . Furthermore the fourth outstanding Shot can include an obscured version of a fourth media content item received from Fred Bloggs and a tag indicating that the fourth media content item and or the fourth outstanding Shot is associated with Joe Bloggs.

In some embodiments a Shot can be associated with other information including but not limited to a property an identifier for a sending computing device that sent the Shot a speed at which the sending computing device was moving or being moved when the Shot was created an acceleration at which the sending computing device was undergoing when the Shot was created a direction at which the sending computing device was pointing when the Shot was created the weather conditions surrounding the sending computing device when the Shot was created and or a title of a media being accessed e.g. a song being played by the sending computing device when the Shot was created etc.

As discussed above the four outstanding Shots are not yet completely accessible. In other words the user of the computing device or the interactive content exchange application running on the computing device can only access or view the obscured e.g. pixelated shrunken thumbnail etc. versions of the media content items of the outstanding Shots and cannot yet access the unobscured e.g. unpixelated enlarged full resolution original etc. versions of the media content items. The obscured versions of the media content items can be intended to spark the user s interest in the media content items e.g. such that the user would want to view the unobscured versions of the media content items . In order to access the unobscured versions the user must create his or her own media content item s to be transmitted to the respective senders of the outstanding Shots.

As shown in the example of the computing device running the interactive content exchange application can be operating in the camera mode. In this example the user can be currently at a pizza eatery. The user can decide to create a media content item in the form of an image of a pizza. Using for example the rear facing camera on the computing device the user can capture the image of the pizza. The captured image can correspond to an unobscured e.g. full resolution unaltered original etc. version of the image. In some embodiments the computing device can generate an obscured version of the image based on the unobscured version. In some embodiments the computing device can provide the unobscured version to a remote server e.g. media server in where the obscured version can be generated based on the unobscured version.

As shown in the example of the user of the computing device can select recipients to whom to send the user s Shot . In some instances the user might desire to gain full access to the outstanding Shots e.g. access the unobscured versions of the media content items included with the outstanding Shots . Accordingly the user can select to transmit his her Shot to those who sent the outstanding Shots to the user such as John Doe and Jane Doe. In some instances the user might desire to start or resume conversations with other contacts. As shown in the example of there can be a Recents list including contacts with whom to potentially engage in conversations. The contacts can for example be listed in an order starting with those from whom the user of the computing device had most recently received content to those from whom the user had least recently received content or vice versa . Moreover in some cases the contacts can be listed based on when the user transmitted content to them.

In the example of the user of the computing device desires to view the unobscured versions of the media content items included with the outstanding Shots sent by John Doe and Jane Doe. As such in this example the user can select the recipients of his her Shot to include John Doe and Jane Doe. Upon sending the Shot the user can immediately or within an allowable time period gain access to the unobscured versions of the media content items included with the Shots sent by John Doe and Jane Doe see and .

Similarly John Doe and Jane Doe can each receive the user s Shot and can access the obscured version of the included media content item but not yet the unobscured version . In order for each of John Doe and Jane Doe to access the unobscured version each must transmit another Shot back to the user. The process can repeat resulting in users exchanging Shots for Shots.

As discussed above a user can gain access to unobscured versions of media content items included with a first Shot from John Doe and a second Shot from Jane Doe. In the example of the unobscured version of the media content item e.g. image of tree from Jane Doe can be presented as a displayed representation in a first upper layer of a virtual stack while the unobscured version of the media content item e.g. image of scenery from John Doe can be presented as a displayed representation in a second lower layer of the virtual stack.

Continuing with the example the computing device or the interactive content exchange application running on the computing device can receive a user interaction to move the displayed representation of the unobscured version from Jane Doe. The user interaction can cause the displayed representation of the unobscured version to move based on one or more movements associated with the user interaction e.g. touch based dragging . As shown in when the displayed representation of the unobscured version is moved a displayed representation of the unobscured version from John Doe can be revealed in the virtual layer below.

Furthermore in some implementations the one or more movements can be associated with at least one of a flicking gesture a swiping gesture a throwing gesture or a tossing gesture. In some cases the displayed representation of Jane Doe s unobscured version in the first layer can moved off the display screen of the computing device and an instance of Jane Doe s unobscured version can be permanently removed from the computing device e.g. the second Shot from Jane Doe is no longer considered outstanding and can be deleted . Further the displayed representation of the unobscured version from John Doe can be presented on the display screen in full view. Accordingly in some embodiments an unobscured version in the next layer of the virtual stack can only be accessible in full view when the unobscured version in the current e.g. topmost layer is swiped away or removed which can result in a permanent deletion of the associated Shot .

In some embodiments there can be one or more animations for a displayed representation of an unobscured version of a media content item when being swiped away or removed. In some embodiments after the user swipes away all accessible or available unobscured versions of media content items in the virtual stack the computing device can provide the camera mode e.g. including a view of whatever imagery the camera currently sees or detects .

Again it should be understood that in some embodiments the order of unobscured versions to be presented in the virtual stack can be changed switched and or reversed e.g. most recently received on the top of the virtual stack and least recently received on the bottom of the virtual stack .

At step the example method can receive by a first computing system or device an obscured version of a first media content item from a second computing system. Step can include providing by the first computing system access to the obscured version of the first media content item.

Step can include preventing by the first computing system access to an unobscured version of the first media content item. At step an unobscured version of a second media content item can be acquired by the first computing system using at least one sensor of the first computing system.

Step can include transmitting to the second computing system by the first computing system at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or an obscured version of the second media content item generated based on the unobscured version of the second media content item. In some implementations the obscured version of the second media content item can be generated by the first computing system the second computing system a media server etc. and or any combination thereof. In some instances the obscured version of the second media content item can be transmitted first and the unobscured version of the second media content item can be transmitted at a subsequent time. In some cases the first computing system can transmit just the unobscured version of the second media content item such that the media server and or the second computing system can generate the obscured version of the second media content item based on the unobscured version of the second media content item.

Step can include providing by the first computing system access to the unobscured version of the first media content item. In some embodiments providing access to the unobscured version of the first media content item can include presenting the unobscured version of the first media content item over time. For example if the first media content item corresponds to a video then the video can be played continuously such as in a playback loop or repeated manner e.g. until swiped away removed device screen lock enabled and or device screen saver enabled etc. .

The example method can receive by the first computing system an obscured version of a third media content item from a third computing system prior to transmitting the obscured version of the second media content item to the second computing system at step . Step can include providing by the first computing system access to the obscured version of the third media content item.

The first computing system can prevent access to an unobscured version of the third media content item at step . At step the first computing system can transmit to the third computing system at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or the obscured version of the second media content item. Step can include providing access to the unobscured version of the third media content item within an allowable time period from when the at least one of the unobscured version of the second media content item or the obscured version of the second media content item is transmitted to the third computing system.

Various other embodiments implementations utilizations and or applications associated with interactively exchanging media content can be possible. In some instances media content can be interactively exchanged in a round robin manner. In one example a round robin group can include User A User B and User C. User A can send a first Shot to User B. In order for User B to fully access the first Shot e.g. view the unobscured media content item included with the first Shot User B can send a second Shot to User C. In order for User C to fully access the second Shot User C can send a third Shot to User A and so forth.

In some embodiments media content can be interactively exchanged among groups. For example a first group can be associated with a first set of computing systems and a second group can be associated with a second set of computing systems. In this example one or more members of the first group can send a first Shot s to one or more members of the second group. All members of the second group can fully access the first Shot s when at least one member of the second group sends a second Shot s back to at least one member of the first group. In some cases the first and second groups can correspond to different families corporations or organizations.

In some implementations if a first user receives multiple Shots from a second user the first user can fully access the multiple Shots when the first user sends at least one Shot back to the second user. In some instances if the first users receives Shots from multiple users then the first user can fully access the Shots when the first user sends at least one Shot back to the multiple users.

In some embodiments the user can create an account to utilize the interactive content exchange component. In one example the user can create the account using a phone number a name a username etc. and or any combination thereof. In another example the user can create the account based on an existing account with a third party entity e.g. a social networking service a social media service a forum service etc. . In some implementations there can be an authentication or verification step based on a SMS communication.

In some embodiments a first user can transmit or receive Shots to and from at least one second user not currently included in the first user s contact list or address book. In one example the first user can exchange Shots with the general public. In another example the first user can exchange Shots with a machine selected e.g. random user.

In some embodiments the user can manage saving features for Shots transmitted and or received. For example the user can elect to only save Shots that he or she transmits.

In some cases various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented as software hardware and or any combination thereof. For example various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in association with one or more applications to be installed and run on one or more computing devices and or systems .

It is further contemplated that there can be many other uses applications implementations and or variations associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 702.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure. The social networking system may be administered managed or controlled by an operator. The operator of the social networking system may be a human being an automated application or a series of applications for managing content regulating policies and collecting usage metrics within the social networking system . Any type of operator may be used.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log and an authorization server . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

The social networking system can include a media server . In some embodiments the media server can be implemented as the media server of . The media server can be configured to facilitate interactively exchanging media content. For example the media server can be configured to relay information among one or more computing devices e.g. user device computer system in engaging in interactive exchange of media content. Moreover in some embodiments the user device can comprise an interactive content exchange component . The interactive content exchange component can be configured to facilitate various operations associated with interactively exchanging media content. For example the interactive content exchange component can correspond to the interactive content exchange applications and of and .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor . In various implementations a module or modules can be executed by a processor or multiple processors in one or multiple locations such as multiple servers in a parallel processing environment.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments some embodiments various embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

