---

title: Recording events for social media
abstract: This specification describes technologies relating to recording an event album for sharing through a social network. In general, one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include receiving a signal indicating a check-in and transmitting a first message including a check-in status update generated at least in part based on the check-in. The methods may further include starting a recording session associated with the check-in and recording media files during the recording session. The methods may further include automatically associating the media files with the check-in. The methods may further include transmitting the media files in one or more additional messages associated with the check-in status update.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356792&OS=09356792&RS=09356792
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09356792
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140829
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 551 414 entitled Recording Events for Social Media filed on Jul. 17 2012 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Social networks permit users to post information about themselves and to communicate with other people e.g. their friends family and co workers. Some social networks permit users to specify social connections with other users.

Additionally some social networks allow users to post status updates about themselves. Status updates for a user may be organized in a chronological stream and presented to other users with access and interest. One type of status update is a check in status update which tells other users that a certain user is present at certain location e.g. a stadium a restaurant or a club .

Some social networks also allow users to post pictures and other media files as part of their online profile.

This specification describes technologies relating to recording an event album for sharing through a social network. In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes receiving using one or more data processing apparatuses a signal indicating a check in. The method may further include transmitting using one or more data processing apparatuses a first message including a check in status update generated at least in part based on the check in. The method may further include starting using one or more data processing apparatuses a recording session associated with the check in. The method may further include recording using one or more data processing apparatuses media files during the recording session. The method may further include automatically associating the media files with the check in. The method may further include transmitting using one or more data processing apparatuses the media files in one or more additional messages associated with the check in status update.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a user interface configured to receive a signal indicating a check in. The system may further include a module configured to start a recording session associated with the check in. The system may further include a sensor configured to record media files during the recording session. The system may further include a module configured to automatically associate the media files with the check in. The system may further include a wireless network interface configured to transmit a first message including a check in status update generated at least in part based on the check in and to later transmit the media files in one or more additional messages associated with the check in status update.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a data processing apparatus and a memory coupled to the data processing apparatus. The memory having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the data processing apparatus cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations including receiving a signal indicating a check in. The operations may further include transmitting a first message including a check in status update generated at least in part based on the check in. The operations may further include starting a recording session associated with the check in. The operations may further include recording media files during the recording session. The operations may further include automatically associating the media files with the check in. The operations may further include transmitting the media files in one or more additional messages associated with the check in status update.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a user interface configured to receive a signal indicating a check in. The system may further include a module configured to start a recording session associated with the check in. The system may further include a sensor configured to record media files during the recording session. The system may further include a module configured to automatically associate the media files with the check in. The system may further include a network interface configured to transmit a first message including a check in status update generated at least in part based on the check in and to later transmit the media files in one or more additional messages associated with the check in status update.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a computer readable media storing software including instructions executable by a processing device that upon such execution cause the processing device to perform operations that include receiving a signal indicating a check in. The operations may further include transmitting a first message including a check in status update generated at least in part based on the check in. The operations may further include starting a recording session associated with the check in. The operations may further include recording media files during the recording session. The operations may further include automatically associating the media files with the check in. The operations may further include transmitting the media files in one or more additional messages associated with the check in status update.

These and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features. The one or more additional messages may be transmitted to a social network server. The first message may cause the check in status update to be published on a social network and the one or more additional messages may cause the check in status update to be modified to include the media files. The first message may cause the check in status update to be published on a social network and the one or more additional messages may cause the check in status update to be modified to include a link to a second status update that includes the media files. The one or more additional messages may be transmitted after the recording session is terminated. The one or more additional messages bearing a particular media file may be automatically transmitted upon recording of the particular media file. The particular media file may be automatically published on a social network upon receipt by a social network server. The recording session may be manually terminated by a user. Using the one or more data processing apparatuses the end of an event associated with the check in may be detected. The recording session may be automatically terminated upon detecting the end of the event. Using the one or more data processing apparatuses a user may be alerted upon detecting the end of the event. Using the one or more data processing apparatuses a user may be alerted the next time a media file is recorded after detecting the end of the event. Transmissions of media files may be automatically suspended after detecting the end of the event. Detecting the end of the event may include monitoring an expiration timer that is reset each time a media file is recorded before it expires. Detecting the end of the event may include analyzing media file recording times during the recording session with a clustering algorithm. Detecting the end of the event may include comparing the geographic location of a mobile device that received the signal to its location when the signal was received. Detecting the end of the event may include comparing the geographic location of a mobile device that received the signal to its location when the latest media file was recorded during the recording session. Detecting the end of the event may include comparing the geographic location of a mobile device that received the signal to boundaries of a location associated with the check in. Detecting the end of the event may include analyzing the geographic locations of a mobile device that received the signal when media files were recorded during the recording session with a clustering algorithm. Detecting the end of the event may include maintaining both a time based event end detector and a geographic location based event end detector. Detecting the end of the event may include weighting signals from the time based event end detector and the geographic location based event end detector using weights that are adapted based on a user s usage patterns. The media files may include a still image file. The media files may include an audio file. The media files may include a video file.

Systems may include a global positioning system receiver configured to determine location coordinates. Systems may include a module configured to detect the end of an event associated with the check in based in part on the location coordinates. Systems may include a display configured to present a user with an alert indicating that the end of the event has been detected and suggesting the termination of the recording session. The sensor may include a camera. The sensor may include a microphone. Systems may include means for detecting the end of an event associated with the check in. The means for detecting the end of the event may use location coordinates output from a global positioning receiver to detect the end of the event. Systems may include a module configured to estimate location coordinates based on signal strength measurements of signals received from multiple base stations and the means for detecting the end of the event may use the estimated location coordinates to detect the end of the event.

Particular embodiments of the invention can be implemented to realize none one or more of the following advantages. Some implementations may facilitate the recording media associated with an event for sharing over a network as a collection or album. Some implementations may automatically associate media files with a check in status update. Some implementations may detect the end of a social event to reduce the chance of media being inadvertently added to a status update.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The term social network as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a platform accessible to users through a communications network that facilitates the forming of social connections between users and the sharing of information between connected users of the platform.

The term social media content as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to electronic content that is submitted to a social network. Types of electronic content include posts links images digital photographs check ins and so forth.

The term check in as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a submission of information specifying a venue and or a geographic location at which a user is present.

The term content stream as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to items of social media content displayed in a portion of a graphical user interface designated for display of the items of social media content.

The term status update as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a unit of social media content that reflects the current status of a user.

The term social connection as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a relationship between nodes in a graph representing users of a social networking service.

The term clustering algorithm as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a process for finding structure in a collection of unlabeled data points by classifying the data points into groups whose members are similar in some way while being dissimilar in some way to members of other groups. Types of clustering algorithms include recurrent self organizing map K means clustering growing K means clustering and so forth.

The term processing device as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to an appropriate processor and or logic that is capable of receiving and storing data and of communicating over a network.

When a user checks in to announce his or her presence at a location to other users of a social network the user may also want to further document his or her activities at the location to enhance the sharing experience or possibly encourage other uses to attend an event at the location. One way to further document those activities is by posting additional rich information about those activities in the form of media files e.g. photos sounds recordings or videos . This enhanced sharing may be facilitated by a device system or process that automatically associates media files recorded at the check in location or during the course of an event associated with the check in to create a collection of media files called an event album that may be posted in the user s status update feed. The event album may be posted as an edit to the original check in status update or in a separate status update that is linked to the check in status update.

For example a user attending a party at a restaurant may check in to the restaurant location when the user arrives and may proceed to takes photos while at the party. As pictures are taken during the party they may be automatically uploaded to the social network and made available in real time to other users with access to the user s feed. In some cases a user may prefer to store media files recorded during the party and post the resulting event album all at once after having an opportunity to review and possibly edit the media files.

The recorded media files may be automatically associated with the check in by starting and maintaining a recording session when the check in occurs. When the user finishes with an event associated with the check in the user may terminate the recording session. The user s device may be able to detect the end of an event associated with the check in by determining when the user or more precisely a user s mobile device has left the area of the check in location or if the time between recordings increases in a way that indicates the event may have ended. Event end detection schemes may be used to automatically terminate a recording session or to alert a user and prompt the user to terminate or continue the recording session.

Network may include a large computer network examples of which include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network or a combination thereof connecting a number of mobile computing devices fixed computing devices and server systems. The network s included in network may provide for communications under various modes or protocols examples of which include Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Global System for Mobile communication GSM voice calls Short Electronic message Service SMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messaging Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Personal Digital Cellular PDC Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 or General Packet Radio System GPRS among others. Communication may occur through a radio frequency transceiver. In addition short range communication may occur e.g. using a BLUETOOTH WiFi or other such transceiver system.

Computing devices enable respective users to access and to view documents e.g. Web pages included in Web sites. For example user of computing device may view a Web page using a Web browser. The Web page may be provided to computing device by server system server system or another server system not shown .

In example environment computing devices are illustrated as desktop type computing devices computing device is illustrated as a laptop type computing device and computing device is illustrated as a mobile computing device. It is noted however that computing devices may include e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a television with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto a tablet computing device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a network appliance a camera a smart phone an enhanced general packet radio service EGPRS mobile phone a media player a navigation device an electronic messaging device a game console or a combination of two or more of these data processing devices or other appropriate data processing devices. In some implementations a computing device may be included as part of a motor vehicle e.g. an automobile an emergency vehicle e.g. fire truck ambulance a bus .

Users interacting with computing devices can participate in a social network hosted e.g. by the server system by uploading and downloading electronic content to the social network. The electronic content may include e.g. text comments e.g. status updates announcements replies digital images videos audio files and or other appropriate information. In some implementations information can be posted on a user s behalf by systems and or services external to social network or to server system . For example the user may post a review of a movie to a movie review Web site and with proper permissions that Web site may cross post that review to social network on the user s behalf. The user may include with a post a tag which includes a hyperlink to a discussion forum about a particular topic e.g. the movie . The tag typically relates to the topic of the post although that need not be the case always . The discussion forum contains posts by the user and others who have included similar tags on their posts.

Generally users interacting with the computing devices can also use social network to define social circles to organize and to categorize the user s relationships to other users of the social network. The social circles become part of the user s social connections. Electronic content can be distributed to contacts within social network including one or more social circles so that such content is viewable by the indicated contacts and or contacts or others. In an example operation a user of social network can generate content and indicate e.g. one or more individual social network contacts and or social circles to which the generated content is to be distributed. During a content write time a content data set is transmitted from the user s client computing device e.g. computing device of to a distribution hub e.g. a content distribution engine which can be provided at a server e.g. server system of or elsewhere on the network . In some implementations the content data set may include content data e.g. text identity of the content author tag uniform resource indicator URI timestamp data e.g. a timestamp indicating the time that the content was generated distribution data e.g. data identifying contacts and or one or more social circles and identification ID data e.g. an ID assigned to the content data set upon generation of the content .

In some implementations other data can be appended to content data sets. Example other data can include scoring data. In some examples scoring data can include a social affinity score among other possible scoring data. As described in more detail below affinity identifies the closeness of parties on a social graph.

The scoring data may be recipient specific. For example the scoring data can include social affinity data that is provided based on respective social affinity scores between an author of the content and each recipient of the content. For example a first user can author content and define a distribution of the content thereby creating an underlying content data set. The distribution can include a second user and a third user and so forth. A first social affinity score associated with a social relationship between the first user and the second user can be provided and a second social affinity score associated with a social relationship between the first user and the third user can be provided. The first social affinity score can be different from the second social affinity score reflecting different social relationships between the first user and the second user and the first user and the third user. The first social affinity score and the second social affinity score can be appended to the content data set and or stored in another location while maintaining an association with the content data set.

In some implementations the distribution data is processed to provide an access control list ACL that specifies which contacts within the social network are granted access to the content. In some implementations content associated social affinity scores can be processed to provide the ACL. For example distribution data can indicate that content is to be accessible by and or distributed to a particular user. A social affinity score can be determined for the content and can be specific to a relationship between the content recipient and the author of the content. In some examples if the social affinity score is below a threshold score it is determined that the content will not be accessible by and or distributed to the particular user. Consequently in this example although the particular user had been explicitly targeted for distribution of the content by the author the particular user is not provided in the ACL for the content. In some examples if the social affinity score is at or above the threshold score it is determined that the content will be accessible by and or distributed to the particular user. Consequently the particular user has been explicitly targeted for distribution of the content by the author and the particular user is provided in the ACL for the content.

Generally the distribution hub determines end points to which the content data set is to be distributed based e.g. on the ACL. For example the set of contacts that may care about the content and or that are allowed access to the content is determined based on the ACL and the ID of the content is written to a per user view index at the distribution hub. When fetching content to distribute to a user the user view index is accessed and the IDs of the various contents that the user is allowed to view are determined. The content data sets are retrieved from a data store e.g. data store of and are transmitted to a client device associated with the requesting user. In some implementations the ACL can be provided based on an overall score a quality score and or the social affinity score. Content may be distributed to a user s main page for inclusion in a content stream.

A user device e.g. computing device may include an event album manager module. The event album manager facilitates the creation and posting of event albums for check ins. When a check in signal is received the event manager may initiate and maintain a recording session. During the recording session media files that are recorded are automatically associated with the check in and included in an event album for the check in. The event album manager may also detect the end of an event associated with check in. When the end of an event is detected the event album manager may automatically terminate the recording session or alert a user and prompt the user to terminate or continue the recording session. During or after the recording session media files recorded and added to the event album may be transmitted to a remote server running a social network e.g. server system running social network . As a result of these transmissions a check in status update for the user may be updated to include or link to the media files in the resulting event album.

In some implementations media files from a user s event album may be automatically associated with an event posting for a group of users of a social network e.g. a group of users with which the user has social connections. Through a social network a user may have a view of a combined event posting that includes all of the media files recorded for an event by all of the people in his or her family circle work friends circle or some combination of circles. In this way the views of the combined event posting may be asymmetric among users. In some implementations multiple users may create a joint event album thereby having a shared and symmetric access to media files recorded in the joint event album.

The event album manager may be implemented as software hardware or a combination of software and hardware that is executed on a processing apparatus such as one or more computing devices e.g. a computer system as illustrated in .

The process can be implemented for example by the event album manager in the computing device of . In some implementations the computing device is a data processing apparatus that includes one or more processors that are configured to perform actions of the process . For example the data processing apparatus may be a computing device e.g. as illustrated in . In some implementations process may be implemented by the event album manager that is executed by the mobile device described in . In some implementations a computer readable medium can include instructions that when executed by a computing device e.g. a computer system cause the device to perform actions of the process .

A signal is received indicating a check in. In some implementations a user may input a check in signal through a user interface e.g. a keypad pointing device or a touch screen display . For example the signal may be received through the pointing device interface of mobile device depicted in . In some implementations the signal may be received through a wireless interface e.g. antennae interface or network connection interface . For example the signal reflecting a check in may be received via a BLUETOOTH connection that connects two devices of a user such as a tablet computing device and a camera. In some implementations a user may be prompted to submit a check in signal when a navigation module e.g. navigation module indicates that a user has entered a geographic location associated with a check in opportunity. For example a social network may designate a stadium as check in location with geographic boundaries. When a user crosses the geographic boundaries the user may be prompted e.g. through display interface or sound interface with the option to check in to the stadium location or an event associated with the location in order to alert members of the user s social network to the presence of the user. The user may exercise the option to check in by through a user interface.

A message including a check in status update based on the check in is transmitted . In some implementations the check in status update is transmitted to a remote server e.g. server system . For example transmitting the check in status update may be accomplished by transmitting the message via a network using a network interface e.g. a wireless network interface including an antenna . A remote server receiving the check in status update that hosts a social network e.g. social network may incorporate the check in status update as an entry in a status update feed or stream for a user that is accessible by some other users of the social network.

A recording session for the check in is started . During the recording session media files that are recorded will be automatically associated with the check in to facilitate the creation of an event album for an event associated with the check in. In some implementations the initiation and maintenance of a recording session and a resulting event album may be performed by a control module e.g. event album manager on user device e.g. user device that controls sensor interfaces used to record media files and associates those media files with the check in. For example the event album manager may be instantiated on the mobile device depicted in and used to start and maintain a recording session for a check in.

A media file is recorded . For example a media file may encode one or more still images sounds video or some other recorded signal s . In some implementations a media file is recorded using a sensor e.g. camera or microphone of the mobile device of .

During the recording session analysis may be performed to detect the end of an event associated with the check in. In some implementations the time elapsed since the check in and or since the last media file was recorded is monitored to detect the end of the event. For example an expiration timer may be monitored to detect the end of the event. The expiration timer may be set to an initial value e.g. an hour when the recording session starts or when a first media file is recorded. The expiration timer may be reset e.g. to the initial value each time a media file is recorded before it expires. In some implementations the reset value of the timer may be adapted based on the timing of previous recordings. In some implementations the end of an event associated with the check in may be detected by analyzing media file recording times during the recording session with a clustering algorithm. For example the end of the event may be detected by determining if the time of the most recent recording is sufficiently later than a cluster of previous recordings during the recording session.

In some implementations the end of the event may be detected by monitoring the geographic location of a mobile device. For example the geographic location of a mobile device that received the signal indicating the check in may be compared to the location of the mobile device when the signal was received. The end of the event may be determined if the distance is greater than threshold e.g. 100 meters . In some implementations the geographic location of a mobile device may be compared to the location of the mobile device when the most recent previous media file was recorded during the recording session. Again the distance may be compared to fixed threshold or in some implementations the threshold may be adapted based on the usage pattern of a user during the current recording session or during previous recording sessions.

In some implementations the end of the event may be detected by comparing the geographic location of a mobile device to boundaries of a location associated with the check in. The boundaries of the location may be specified by a social network. For example boundaries may be specified in a message received over a communication network from social network server e.g. server system running social network . The end of the event may be detected by determining if the mobile device is outside of the boundaries.

In some implementations the end of the event may be detected by analyzing the geographic locations of a mobile device when media files were recorded during the recording session with a clustering algorithm e.g. recurrent self organizing map K means clustering or growing K means clustering . The end of the event may be detected by determining if the current location is sufficiently far from a cluster of previous recording locations.

In some implementations the end of the event may be detected by monitoring both the timing of recordings and the geographic location of a mobile device. For example the end of the event may be detected by determining if either the time between successive recordings exceeds a threshold or the distance between successive recordings exceeds another threshold. A time based event end detector and a geographic location based event end detector may be maintained. In some implementations outputs signals of the time based detector and the location based detector may be combined by weighting the output signals and adding them together. The end of the event may be detected by determining if the combined detector output exceeds a threshold. In some implementations the weights used to combine time based and location based signals may be adapted based on a user s usage patterns. For example if the underlying event happens to occur over wide area e.g. golfing a user may move around substantially during the event resulting in a large number of false positive detections of the end of the event based on geographic location change. As the user provides feedback in response to end of event notifications or reminders by indicating that the event is still continuing the weights may be adjusted to weight a time based signal more significantly than a location based signal that caused the false positives.

In some implementations status checks e.g. of recording times or geographic location are performed periodically during the recording session to detect the end of the event. In some implementations these checks are performed when a new media file is recorded.

For example detecting the end of the event may be implemented by the event album manager in the computing device . In some implementations a global positioning system receiver is used to determine location coordinates that are used to detect the end of the event based on geographic location. For example GPS Global Positioning System receiver module of mobile computing device may be used to determine location coordinates. In some implementations a module e.g. navigation module or antennae interface estimates location coordinates based on signal strength measurements of signals received from multiple base stations. These location coordinate estimates may be used to detect the end of the event.

A check is performed to determine whether the recording session has terminated. In some cases a recording session may be terminated manually by a user. Manual termination of the recording session may be prompted by presenting a user with an alert e.g. via display or display interface of the mobile device of that informs the user that the end of an event has been detected and suggests termination of the associated recording session. In other cases the recording session may be automatically terminated when the end of an event associated with the check in is detected. In some implementations the transmission of media files associated with the check in may be suspended automatically upon detect of the end of the associated event.

If the end of an event is detected between recordings a system may wait until the next recording occurs to present the user with an alert and prompt the user to terminate the recording session. In some implementations an alert may be presented as soon as the end of the event is detected even if it is between recordings.

When the status of the recording session is checked if the recording session has not been terminated then new media files recorded are associated with the check in and the media files may be transmitted .

A media file recorded during the recording session may be automatically associated with the check in by saving the media file in a data structure for an event album associated with the check in. The event album may include a reference to the check in e.g. an identifier for the check in status update that has been posted on a social network . For example the event album including media files associated with the check in may be stored in a memory e.g. memory of mobile computing device . In some implementations a media file is associated with the check in by transmitting the media file in one or more messages that include a reference to the check in status update posted on a social network and causing a remote server e.g. server system to store the media file in a data structure for an event album associated with the check in. For example one or more messages including a media file and reference to the check in status update may be transmitted via a network using a network interface e.g. a wireless network interface including an antenna .

A media file associated with the check in may be transmitted over a network e.g. over network to remote server system running social network . In some implementations a newly recorded media file is transmitted as soon as it is available and may be instantly published on a social network so that it is immediately available to some other users of a social network. In some implementations a newly recorded media file may be transmitted as soon as it is available but rather than being published immediately stored by a remote server e.g. server system pending completion and approval of the event album by the user. In some implementations not shown in a newly recorded media file is not transmitted immediately but is stored locally pending completion and user approval of the event album. In this case the media files may be transmitted together in one or more messages associated with the check in status update after the recording session is terminated.

Transmitting a media file may be accomplished by transmitting one or more messages including the media file via a network using a network interface e.g. a wireless network interface including an antenna . For example a media file may be transmitted using antennae interface or network connection interface of the mobile device . After an associated media file is transmitted the recording session may continue by recording additional media files.

When the status of the recording session is checked if the recording session has been terminated then a user may be prompted to edit an event album. For example a user may review the event album and delete unwanted media files. In some implementations a user may uses media editing software to modify media files. A user may indicate that editing of the event album is complete and that the event album is ready for publication. For example a user may be prompted through a display e.g. display interface and a user may enter edits or indicate approval of the event album for publication through a user interface e.g. keyboard interface or pointing device interface .

A publication message may be transmitted to cause media files associated with the check in to be made accessible to other users of a social network. In some implementations the media files have previously been transmitted to a social network server e.g. server system running social network and the publication message grants the user s permission for those files to be accessed through the check in status update or another status update that is linked to the check in status update. Event duration information may be included with the publication message and may be added to the check in status update along with media files or pointers to the media files. In some implementations associated media files that were not previously transmitted are transmitted along with a publication message after the recording session is complete or after the user complete edits of the media files in the event album and approves the event album for publication. In some implementations a publication message is transmitted via a network using a network interface e.g. a wireless network interface including an antenna .

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary mobile device that implements the event album manager shown in is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to automatically associate media files recorded during an event with a corresponding check in by creating an event album that may be posted on a social network in a status update for the check in.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for interaction with event album manager systems. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with a QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera or other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that cause a data processing apparatus to record an event album associated with a check in.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as a mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT.NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GMAIL email application an instant messaging application a video service application a mapping application or an imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine a gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for event album creation for check ins using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager content providers and an event album manager . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application and a browser application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and event album manager processes associated with the event album manager application library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the system services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example portions of the event album manager system may be implemented on multiple devices e.g. a portion on mobile device and a portion on remote server system . An event manager that runs in part on a remote server may adapt event end detection module parameters to a particular location associated with check ins based on usage data from many users who have checked in the particular location.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

