---

title: Usage modeling for intelligent management of alarms and messages in mobile health systems
abstract: Systems and methods can support usage modeling and the intelligent management of patient alarms. An alarm management system can maintain models of patient alarm operations. Modeling parameters related to clinical user behavior and modeling parameters related to alarm context can be incorporated into the models of patient alarm operations. The models of patient alarm operations can inform rules associated with intelligent alarm management. The rules may be applied to the presentation of alarms to the clinical users via mobile computing devices. The rules may also be applied to the interpretation of alarm responses from the clinical users. The rules may be adapted by the alarm management system to improve metrics of alarm efficacy and/or metrics of patient health outcomes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09649073&OS=09649073&RS=09649073
owner: Voalte, Inc.
number: 09649073
owner_city: Sarasota
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140914
---
Various instruments and events within a healthcare enterprise can generate alarms for notifying point of care staff such as nurses and physicians of event and conditions of concern regarding patients. As more systems in the healthcare enterprise become computerized and networked electronic alarms become more and more numerous and frequent. As clinicians become desensitized to frequent interruptions of these alarms they often begin to ignore the alarms or even turn them off. This phenomenon is referred to as alarm fatigue.

Alarms should ideally be routed to the correct staff member. This is often complicated by staff assignment updates or modifications due to shift changes. Furthermore alarms are not always routed to the most proximate available or appropriately skilled staff member to handle the alarm.

There is a need in the art for healthcare enterprise alarm and event management technologies that can intelligently impact the presentation and acknowledgement of alarms messages and notifications to improve patient outcomes and reduce costs.

In certain example embodiments described herein methods and systems can support usage modeling and the intelligent management of patient alarms. An alarm management system can maintain models of patient alarm operations. Modeling parameters related to clinical user behavior and modeling parameters related to alarm context can be incorporated into the models of patient alarm operations. The models of patient alarm operations can inform rules associated with intelligent alarm management. The rules may be applied to the presentation of alarms to the clinical users via mobile computing devices. The rules may also be applied to the interpretation of alarm responses from the clinical users. The rules may be adapted by the alarm management system to improve metrics of alarm efficacy and or metrics of patient health outcomes.

These and other aspects objects features and advantages of the example embodiments will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of illustrated example embodiments.

The technology presented herein can significantly improve the efficacy of various alarms messages and notifications within a healthcare enterprise to improve patient outcomes and reduce costs. The technology can leverage machine intelligence to collect aggregate evaluate process and model data to enable the intelligent presentation and acknowledgement of alarms events alerts and messages between various combinations of caregivers instrumentation and information systems. The machine intelligence can extend to modeling predicting and optimizing behaviors of users as individuals or according to various roles and or assignments. Application of this technology can reduce alarm fatigue while improving the delivery and routing of alarms. Acknowledgment or response to alarms may also be improved through the application of the technology presented herein.

The functionality of the various example embodiments will be explained in more detail in the following description read in conjunction with the figures illustrating the program flow. Turning now to the drawings in which like numerals indicate like but not necessarily identical elements throughout the figures example embodiments are described in detail.

The medical devices in the patient room or otherwise associated with the patient may include various monitors or telemetry devices. For example the medical devices may include heart monitors respiration monitors blood pressure monitors blood oxygen sensors intravenous delivery systems pain management systems fetal monitors and so forth. The medical devices may also include smart beds that can report patient movement when the patient exits or enters when the guardrails have moved and other such specifics. Similarly the medical devices may include a call button at the bed or in the restroom motion sensors communications devices and so forth. Any of these or other such medical devices can generate alarms or alarm indicators for a variety of reasons. Generally the alarms are generated when a certain condition obtains such as a measurement threshold being exceeded or a sensor or switch being activated.

The alarm information generated by the medical devices may be relayed from the medical devices to the alarm management system for presentation to one or more users . The alarms may be communicated using Wireless Communications Transfer Protocol WCTP WiFi XML HTTP TCP IP or various other networking protocols technologies or topologies. These communications may follow one or more messaging standards that define how information is packaged and communicated from one system to another. Such standards can specify languages structures and or data types for integrating information between systems. An example of such a standard is Health Level Seven HL7 which includes a set of rules for information to be shared and processed in a uniform and consistent manner within the healthcare enterprise.

The patient room may include communications or monitor devices. These may include a camera a video display a microphone a speaker or various other sensors. The microphone and speaker can support voice communications or intercom functionality. Addition of a camera and or video display can support video monitoring or even video conferencing. For example a user can communicate with listen to or visually observe the patient from a user mobile device or other computing machine or communication device. For example the patient may be visually monitored from a computer display at a nurse station. The various communication modalities may be supported by the communication management server and may interface through the voice gateway to existing voice communication systems such as VoIP PBX or POTS systems or similar video conferencing systems.

One example use case for real time audio video communication between the patient and the user can provide timely response when the patient could potentially be falling out of their bed in a hospital or other care facility. Using video conferencing devices in the patient room a view of the room may be transmitted to the user assigned to that particular patient . According to one or more example embodiments the user may be a nurse that is currently in a different area of the unit or hospital. The user can also obtain a complete visual on their user mobile device showing the patient s condition in the room on demand at any time. The user could remotely warn the patient . If close enough to the patient the user could rush to the room to either prevent the patient from falling or catch the patient during the fall to lower adverse impact. The user could alternatively escalate the alarm situation to other users care providers who may be closer to the patient . To support devices in the patient room such as the camera and microphone to transmit live video and audio to the user the alarm management system can identify the user who is assigned to the particular patient . The alarm management system can track the location of various users to determine who may be currently closest to the potentially falling patient .

The user may be a care provider in a hospital or other care facility. The user may be a nurse physician therapist technician assistant specialist or any other care provider. The user can interface with a user mobile device for receiving presentation of and responding to alarm notifications or related messages. The user can receive other information related to the patient via the user mobile device . This other information may include voice or video communications data strips from medical devices and of forth. The mobile modules can provide software firmware or hardware for executing the functionality of the user mobile device as discussed herein. The mobile I O can include various sensors input and output mechanisms associated with the user mobile device . These may include touch screens microphones speakers video displays and so forth. The location module can provide the user mobile device with location awareness for use within the user mobile device or relaying to the alarm management system . The location modules can include GPS beacon locating wireless access point positioning RTLS or other mapping location services. Wireless access point positioning can determine the location of the user mobile device based upon which wireless access points it is currently able to connect with and possibly what their respective apparent power levels read as.

It should be appreciated that the user may also interface through a desktop computer or workstation instead of a user mobile device . For example the user may be using a desktop computer system in the office or at a nurse s station in a hospital or other care facility.

The alarm management system in conjunction with the alarm management modules as well as the other systems and modules presented herein can operate to perform the functionality discussed in association with the present technology. While traditional middle wear may have directly presented any generated alarms without evaluation aggregation or processing. This functionality is provided by the technology presented herein. This technology may be referred to as smart alarms or intelligent alarms. It should be appreciated that in addition to the alarm management modules mobile modules communication management modules the technology presented herein may include or interface with various other modules. It should also be appreciated that any two or more of these modules may be combined into the same module or modules. Furthermore any one or more of these modules may split functionally or load share between two or more modules or execute on two or more computing machines. Any such modules may operate in a parallel distributed or networked fashion without departing from the spirit or scope of the technology presented herein. The functionality presented herein may be implanted at the patient room the alarm management system the user mobile device or in a combination of two or more of those locations. Peer to peer communication may also be supported between multiple user mobile devices .

The alarm management system user mobile device communication management server systems associated with the patient room other systems associated with the users or any other systems associated with the technology presented herein may be any type of computing machine such as but not limited to those discussed in more detail with respect to . Furthermore any modules such as the alarm management modules mobile modules communication management modules associated with any of these computing machines or any other modules scripts web content software firmware or hardware associated with the technology presented herein may by any of the modules discussed in more detail with respect to . The computing machines discussed herein may communicate with one another as well as other computer machines or communication systems over one or more networks such as network . The network may include any type of data or communications network including any of the network technology discussed with respect to .

While the rule implementation system is illustrated as broken out from the alarm management system it should be appreciated that the rule implementation system may operate as one or more modules associated with the alarm management system such as alarm management modules according to various embodiments. According to various embodiments the rule implementation system may operate as one or more modules associated with the alarm management system combined with one or more modules associated with the user mobile device such as mobile modules .

The rule implementation system is an example of a rule engine system production system or production rule system. These are often used in artificial intelligence automated planning expert systems action selection systems or other such machine based knowledge or decision systems. For example the rule implementation system can implement the alarm processing associated intelligence associated with the alarm management system and the user mobile device . The rule implementation system can receive inputs influencing or defining rules and or facts from the alarm management system and or the user mobile device indicating behavior of a user or other related information such as their response patterns locations motion and so forth.

A rule associated with the rule implementation system generally consists of two components a condition and a result. The condition and result of a rule may be said to have an if then relationship. If the condition obtains then the rule is triggered causing the result to be fired. The condition generally obtains by the existence or truth of one or more facts . For example a condition could be if it is Wednesday which would trigger when presented with the fact that the day of the week is Wednesday. The result of firing a rule generally involves one or more other facts or the generation of an action . Firing of the rule can assert or retract one or more other facts . Firing of the rule can also generate one or more actions as output of the rule implementation system . Asserting or retracting one or more facts can alter the state of the rule implementation system which may then affect the conditions of other rules causing them to fire. Altering the state of the rule implementation system may also affect the responses provided to questions processed by the rule implementation system .

The rule implementation system may also include a log journal or storage memory of events and or status information. This log may provide a state or system memory for use in rule implementation. Accordingly the rule implementation system may function as a state machine responding to inputs in light of previous inputs output states transition of states or any combination thereof. Availability of such state information may be leveraged to provide complex event handling functionality in association with the rule implementation system .

The graph database can provide the working memory of the rule implementation system . This working memory can store information comprising the current state or knowledge of the rule implementation system . The graph database can store information in a graph structure where nodes are interconnected by edges. The nodes generally represent entities or things such as individuals departments or equipment. Edges generally connect nodes representing the relationship between them. Each node may be associated with one or more properties which may contain information pertinent to that respective node. It should be appreciated that while various embodiments of the rule implementation system may include a graph database for storing and processing rules and or facts other types and structures of storage or association may be used to implement the same functionality without departing from the scope of the technology presented herein.

The interface module of the rule implementation system can provide an application programming interface API scripting interface domain specific language DSL or other mechanism for interfacing to the rule implementation system . The interface module may support transactions with other modules systems or entities associated with the rule implementation system . These transactions may involve providing rules or facts to the rule implementation system receiving and reacting to questions retrieving rules or facts from the rule implementation system or receiving actions or information associated with actions from the rule implementation system .

The controller module of the rule implementation system can process control operations of the rule implementation system . Examples of the operations may include executing queries starting stopping rule evaluation and so forth.

The database translation module of the rule implementation system can provide low level interactions with the graph database . These interactions may include performing queries handling fact node assertion or retraction database administrative tasks and so forth.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the interface module controller module database translation module and graph database the rule implementation system may include or interface with other modules. It should also be appreciated that any two or more of these modules may be combined into the same module or modules. Furthermore any one or more of these modules may split functionally or load share between two or more modules or execute on two or more computing machines. Any such modules may operate in a parallel distributed or networked fashion without departing from the spirit or scope of the technology presented herein.

A domain specific language DSL may be used to simplify the specification of rules and or facts to the rule implementation system. For example a DSL designed for pharmacists or for specifying pharmaceutical prescriptions may be used to allow entry of prescription details in natural or nearly natural human languages such as prescribe 81 mg aspirin each morning to cardiac patients and do not prescribe aspirin to patients taking blood thinning medication. A specific DSL may be tuned to one or more specific areas of patient care have specific subsets of language or jargon. For example surgery physical rehab radiology etc. A DSL may also be defined for specifying system functions such as call rules message rules alarm routing alarm filtering alarm responses alarm escalation or other alarm related processes. For example a DSL may allow a nurse to enter a rule from send me an alarm if patient in room attempts to exit their bed or if their heart rate exceeds 130 BPM which may be followed by offer those alarm settings to next responsible nurse when my shift ends. The inputs may be entered as text or converted to text from speech entered by the user . The inputs may be entered by the user at the user mobile device or any other system accessed directly or indirectly by the user .

The rule implementation system systems associated with the rules facts or actions or any other systems associated with the technology presented herein may be any type of computing machine such as but not limited to those discussed in more detail with respect to . Furthermore any modules such as the interface module controller module or database translation module associated with any of these computing machines or any other modules scripts web content software firmware or hardware associated with the technology presented herein may by any of the modules discussed in more detail with respect to . The computing machines discussed herein may communicate with one another as well as other computer machines or communication systems over one or more networks such as network . The network may include any type of data or communications network including any of the network technology discussed with respect to .

The rule fact graph includes nodes A F connected by edges A F. The nodes A F may be referred to collectively or in general as nodes . Similarly the edges A F may be referred to collectively or in general as edges .

The rule fact graph within the graph database can serve as the working memory of the rule implementation system . This working memory can store information comprising the current state or knowledge of the rule implementation system . This information can include various facts which may be stored as nodes connected by edges representing relationships between the nodes such that the nodes and edges together can encode rules .

Rule interpretation may be provided by executing queries on the rule fact graph within the graph database . The queries may be associated with questions posed to the rule implementation system . The queries can pattern match facts against the encoded rules determining which of the rules to apply. The condition portion of each rule may be tested against the current state of the working memory by pattern matching against the rule fact graph . The consequent results can update the knowledge represented by the rule fact graph by asserting or retracting information. Rule interpretation can execute forward chaining when updated information affects other rules implied within the rule fact graph . The results consequent to the condition can also trigger actions . Queries of the rule fact graph within the graph database can leverage a schema free storage structure supporting index free adjacency where any node may be directly linked by one or more edges to its adjacent nodes such that index lookups are unnecessary.

Considering the illustrated example rule fact graph node A represents the individual named Jane and the connection edge A between node A and the Miami Office node C can represent that the individual Jane works out of the Miami Office. The connection edge B between node A and the Engineer node B can represent that the individual Jane has a role of Engineer. The connection edge C between node B and the Developer node D can represent that those in the role of Engineer are also Developers. The connection edge D between the Developer node D and the Source Code node E can represent a rule that all Developers are given access to Source Code. The connection edge E between the Source Code node E and the foo.c node F can represent that source code file foo.c is and instance of Source Code. 

An example rule interpretation can deduce edge F between the foo.c node F and the individual Jane node A from the rule that all Developers are given access to Source Code combined with the fact that Jane is an Engineer and thus a Developer. This deduced relationship associated with edge F may be the basis for returning foo.c as an answer to the question What source code files does Jane have access to The deduced relationship associated with edge F may also be the basis for returning Jane as an answer to the question Who has access to the file foo.c According to certain embodiments the deduced relationship associated with edge F can persist in the memory of the rule fact graph until some other rule interpretation or operation on the graph database retracts it.

Representing rules within the graph database provide the ability to establish adjacencies between any nodes and thus relationships between facts without having to rebuild schemas or introduce associating tags or indices. Accordingly rules may be changed or introduced anew within the rule fact graph very efficiently and with reduced effort or overhead. For example in the illustrated rule fact graph if the rules that all developers have access to source code was changed to all engineers have access to source code the connection edge D between the Developer node D and the Source Code node E would simply be moved to connect the Engineer node B and the Source Code node E. Changing this rule representation in a traditional database for a huge number of engineers developers and or a huge number of source code files could be extremely time consuming and nearly impossible is such rules changed frequently as they might in certain complex enterprise environments such as health care information systems.

Further considering the example rule fact graph as illustrated an example query for individuals adjacent to both the Engineer node B and the Miami Office node C can rapidly answer the question of which individuals in the Miami Office are engineers 

The rule implementation system and its rule fact graphs can provide the functionality and benefits of various graph structured rule implementations such as the Rete Algorithm along with additional benefits for handling datasets and rule sets presenting the challenge of being any combination of very large complex dynamic or unstructured.

Some examples of additional benefits to the rule implementation system relate to it being more suitable for managing ad hoc and changing data with evolving schemas. For example in a healthcare enterprise such as a hospital department the number of nurses may vary from shift to shift as might the number of patients. Furthermore the roles of the nurses may change and the assignments relating the nurses to specific patients may also change. When additional facts and rules associated with the hospital department come into play the rule fact graph can quickly become very large even while being dynamic rapidly changing . For example the additional facts and rules may relate to procedures medications food service radiology tests specialist referrals admit discharges code emergencies monitoring alarms and so forth. Other example additional facts and rules may relate to routing messages alarms notifications voice calls text messages or other communication modalities to one or more nurses or wireless mobile devices associated therewith within a healthcare enterprise. This type of information is also well addressed by the schema less structure support of the rule implementation system and its associated graph database .

Another example benefit to the rule implementation system stems from the native pattern matching capabilities of the rule implementation system and its associated graph database . Such native pattern matching support can provide for significant increases in efficiencies related to rule interpretation and associated queries.

Yet another example benefit to the rule implementation system relates to the disk backed performance of the rule implementation system and its associated graph database . Disk backed operation can provide persistence of state by maintain information within the graph database . Disk backed operation can also overcome working memory limitations encountered in operating on a rule fact graph of ever increasing size and complexity.

According to methods and blocks described in the embodiments presented herein and in alternative embodiments certain blocks can be performed in a different order in parallel with one another omitted entirely and or combined between different example methods and or certain additional blocks can be performed without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Accordingly such alternative embodiments are included in the invention described herein.

In block the alarm management system can receive alarm indications associated with one or more patients . Alarms generated by the patient or by associated medical devices may be relayed to the alarm management system as they occur. The alarm management system can generate intelligent alarms by evaluating aggregating and or processing alarm or alert conditions it receives and determining the proper resultant alarm signals to communicate to the users . Furthermore the alarm management system can process multiple alarms and or incorporate multiple sources of other information to generate multivariate alarms. For example an alarm from a patient monitor may be evaluated along with addition patient information from an electronic medical record EMR system or patient physiological information from one or more medical devices to generate a multivariate alarm. Also the alarm management system can apply models statistical data and information trends to predict future alarms. For example various physiological data samples along with information about a recent invasive surgery may support the generation of a predictive alarm indicating that a patient may be entering a state of sepsis.

In block the alarm management system can present alarms to one or more users according to models applied to received alarm indications. The models discussed with respect to block can be applied to determine presentation of the alarms received in block . The determined presentation can include to whom which user and how the alarm is presented. Which user the alarm is presented may be referred to as the target user . How the alarm is presented may be referred to as the modality of the alarm or alarm notification.

In block the alarm management system can offer accept and interpret alarm responses from the user according to the models. The models discussed with respect to block can be applied to the management of alarm responses associated with the alarms received in block . The models can assist in determining how an alarm may be responded too and then how to interpret the actual response received from the user in association with the alarm.

In block the alarm management system can update models and rules for applying models to improve alarm efficacy and or patient outcomes. For example one or more metrics of patient alarm efficacy may be defined where the metrics score how certain rules operations or parameters such as thresholds or input weights influence desirable patient outcomes. Patient outcomes may relate to physiological measurements readmission rates patient compliance evaluations patient satisfaction ratings and so forth. Adapting or updating a model can include among other things incorporating newly obtained data related to the model or processing the model in some updated fashion. Adapting rules can include among other things selecting inputs to a rule how those inputs are combined weighted or processed and or what thresholds are applied to those inputs.

The rules can specify when and how to evaluate and incorporate various factors into models and associated decision making processes. These factors may include the risk to patients when alarms malfunction or are not attended to. The factors may also include whether specific alarm signals are truly meaningful or instead unnecessarily contribute to alarm noise and alarm fatigue. The factors may also include specifying clinically appropriate settings for alarm signals. The factors may also include when alarm signals can be disabled or when alarm parameters can be changed. The factors may also include who in the organization has the authority to set alarm parameters who in the organization has the authority to change alarm parameters and or who in the organization has the authority to disable alarm parameters. The factors may also include checking individual alarm signals for accurate settings proper operation and detectability.

In block the alarm management system can incorporate behavioral reactions to alarms as one or more modeling parameters. The behavioral reactions may relate to the location of the user the location of the patient the distance between the user and patient and or the motion of the user or the patient . For example the behavior of a user in reaction to various alarms may be modeled as a function of the location of the user or the distance from the user to the patient or the motion of the user . For example it may be determined through the use of behavior modeling that the user generally moves towards the patient almost immediately after receiving an alarm associated with that patient . Accordingly the alarm management system may note an instance where such motion does not begin within a certain time window as an implied rejection of the alarm by the user . Such location distance and motion models may be established with respect to individual users or for categories of users such as roles assignments shifts correlation to other patterns and so forth. These models may be used to determine or evaluate the expected location of a user from their current role or assignment. The location distance and motion parameters used in the modeling may be obtained from the location modules associated with the user mobile device . Locations of patients may be determined from provided floor maps of a facility or coordinates or distances associated therewith along with the room and or bed assignment information for the patient . It should be appreciated that motion information may also include information regarding changes in location changes in motion changes in changes in motion and any other temporal or spatial derivatives of any order of position or location.

Also the behavioral reactions may relate to the current activity of the user . For example modeling may establish that when a user is involved in a critical activity such as a patient coding the user is very unlikely to respond to another alarm. Similarly modeling may establish under what situations the user responds in different ways or at different urgencies to various alarm types or indicator type. As another example modeling may establish under what situations the user responds in different ways or at different urgencies when other alarms and in what quantities have recently been routed to the user .

In block the alarm management system can inform rules for alarm operations using the models. These may be rules such as those associated with the rule implementation system . The models of when how and how rapidly various users respond to what type of alarms along with facts regarding the context of the users the alarm conditions and or the context of the patient may be used to intelligently manage to whom and how alarms are routed or not according to various contexts and inputs relevant to the established models. These deduction or implications established from models may be encoded into rules such as those associated with the rule implementation system .

In block the alarm management system can apply rules to presentation of alarms to users . The rules may be those informed by the models as discussed with respect to block . According to some example embodiments where modeling indicates that a particular user is more likely to respond rapidly to an alarm when a particular alert tone is emitted from their user mobile device a rule may be established indicating for the preferred alert tone to be played when an alarm is routed to that user . This rule may be particularly effective when the alarm is critical or when nobody else is available to respond. Various other examples of applying rules for presenting alarms may be implemented according to various embodiments. Some of these example embodiments are discussed with respect to .

In block the alarm management system can apply rules to offer alarm response options to users . The rules may be those informed by the models as discussed with respect to block . According to some example embodiments where modeling indicates that patient outcomes are improved when users who are cardiac care nurses are provided with an option to accept and view heart monitor for certain alarm conditions a rule may be established indicating for cardiac care nurses to optionally display the heart monitor data to their user mobile device immediately upon acknowledging certain alarms. Various other examples of applying rules for alarms responses may be implemented according to various embodiments. Some of these example embodiments are discussed with respect to .

In block the alarm management system can apply rules to interpret user responses to alarms. The rules may be those informed by the models as discussed with respect to block . According to some example embodiments where modeling indicates that a particular user is more likely to move rapidly toward a patient in response to an alarm a rule may be established indicating for such motion to be interpreted as an acknowledgement by that particular user without the user having to explicitly acknowledge the alarm on their user mobile device . Various other examples of applying rules for interpreting user responses may be implemented according to various embodiments. Some of these example embodiments are discussed with respect to . The alarm management system may also apply the models and rules to identify when a user is not responding as expected and then respond by escalating the alarm presentation to that user e.g. make it louder and louder or shifting the alarm presentation to another user who may be known to be available physically close the patient or otherwise a preferred candidate for addressing the alarm.

In block the alarm management system can update models and rules to improve alarm efficacy and or patient outcomes. Accordingly the models and rules may be adaptive to seek improvement through the implementation of various machine learning techniques known in the machine intelligence arts such as applying iterative error reduction minimum mean square error gradient descent simulated annealing adaptive neural networks retraining and so forth to parameters associated with the various rules of the alarm management system . Updated or adapted rules may be reintroduced into the rule implementation system .

In block the alarm management system can maintain relationships between patients and users . This information may generally be obtained from electronic medical records systems or from user roles and assignments. For example a nurse user may be assigned a certain number of patients every shift. These relationships can indicate what user should be routed alarms associated with specific patients to which they are assigned. In addition to simple administrative shift assignments users may also be associated with particular patients according to skill sets location physical proximity current activity levels current assignment load and so forth. These factors may be used to route a particular alarm associated with a patient to a user who is particularly trained to handle that alarm or a user who happens to be walking past the patients room as an emergency condition arises and so forth. Escalation rules and patterns may also be established for situations when a user cannot or does not acknowledge an alarm. For example a user may have a backup user according to some examples their supervisor who will receive escalated alarms that they fail to respond to. These rules may also determine how to allocate a default backup in instances where a backup user has not been explicitly specified. In other example embodiments alarms may be directed to a care team of two or more users as opposed to being allocated to a single user . Groups of users may also be established by roles of the users to form appropriate teams or care teams.

In block the alarm management system can maintain context information related to users . Such context information may involve where the user is and what they are doing. For example the location and motion of the user can indicate where the user is and to where they are moving. Roles assignments and recent alarms associated with a user may indicate how busy they are and thus how available they may be to field a new alarm. Further context may indicate how the user responds to various types of alarms given their other contextual information. For example when working at the nurse station a nurse user may respond effectively to a simple textual message alarm notification while the alarm management system may have established through modeling that the same nurse user responds most effectively to a noisy alarm tone while they are walking rapidly through the hallway.

In block the alarm management system can receive an alarm from patient . For example medical devices associated with the patient can generate alarms or alarm indicators for a variety of reasons. Various other alarm generating conditions may apply.

In block the alarm management system can receive the alarm context of the patient associated with the alarm. For example additional information about the patient may be received in association with the alarm. According to various examples additional patient information may include conditions e.g. cancer cardiac diabetic dementia etc. age recent alarms generated medications recent procedures medical monitoring waveforms medical imaging current images current video voice intercom and so forth.

In block the alarm management system can apply rules for presenting the alarm to the user . The alarm received in block can be routed to a user . Whether the alarm gets routed to whom it get routed and how it is to be presented may all be determined by applying the rules discussed in block . The rules may be applied according to the rule implementation system associated with the alarm management system . Application of the rules may use as facts or other parameters various information related to the received alarm from block the user context discussed in block the patient context discussed in block and the relationship between the patient and the user as discussed in block .

The rules may establish how the to alarm is to be presented to the user . Alarms may be presented at sounds or alarm tones played on the user mobile device . Alarms may also be presented as vibrations flashing lights graphical display textual displays animations or any combination thereof. Alarm tones may comprise multiple ringtones. Users may select alarm tones or tones may be assigned according to functional criteria. For example alarm tones may differ according to alert severity. Hands free alarm presentation may be supported by voice annunciation where information about the alarm is presented at the user mobile device using voice synthesis or recorded voice messages played through a speaker. For example Attention. Patient Alarm in Room 941. Alarm presentation may evolve over time. For example if a user does not acknowledge an alarm after a period of time the volume of the alarm may be increased or the alarm tone or presentation may be altered. The period of time before changing may be preset or may be learned through user modeling. The various styles of presentations as well as specific parameters how to annunciate voice alarm what volume to use to use a tone or vibration and so on may be determined and fine tuned using the behavioral and outcome modeling techniques presented herein. All of these factors may be implemented according to the established rules associated with alarm presentation.

The rules establishing how the to alarm is to be presented to the user may also specify that the alarm is to be presented along with additional information or an option for the user to request additional patient information associated with the alarm or the patient . Some examples of additional patient or alarm information are discussed with respect to block and elsewhere herein.

Another aspect of how the alarm may be presented to the user can include how the alarm offers the user to respond to or acknowledge the alarm as discussed with respect to . In general acknowledgement or response to an alarm can include several variations upon rejecting the alarm accepting the alarm or query additional information associated with the alarm. Along with the other aspects of presenting alarms these factors may be implemented according to the established rules associated with alarm presentation which may be determined and fine tuned using the behavioral and outcome modeling techniques presented herein.

In block the alarm management system can present the alarm to the user according to the applied rules as discussed with respect to block . The alarm may be presented at the user mobile device a desktop being used by the user a wearable computing device associated with the user a larger possibly wall mounted display proximate to the user any other communication device any other computing machine associated with or physically proximate to the user or any combination thereof.

The alarm may be presented to the user along with additional info related to the patient or the alarm as discussed with respect to block . The alarm may also present with an option for the user to query or request the additional information. The additional information may be textual information for example patient heart rate temperature medication information . The additional information may also be visual such as a waveform from a medical instrument radiological imaging image or video of the patient room and so forth. When such a display is presented to the user mobile device it may be windowed and explored with sliders such that it may be displayed at full resolution. Such a display may also be relayed to a larger monitor or computer display system that is physically proximate to the user . Such proximity may be ascertained using the location functionality of the user mobile device .

The rules related to user response to alarms can determine the options for responding to an alarm that are presented to the user along with the alarm. A simple example would allow the user to hit a button or make some other input to acknowledge that they have received the alarm. A slightly more complex example might allow the user to accept or reject the alarm. Other examples may allow the user to forward the alarm to another specific user to speak with the patient to view the patient to request more information about the patient or the nature of the alarm and so forth.

Additional examples of rules for responding to alarms address various options for the user to accept the alarm reject the alarm forward the alarm send a message related to the alarm establish an audio voice connection to the patient or view an instrument waveform or medical imaging lab results patient video surveillance patient image surveillance or other display associated with the alarm and or the patient .

Further examples of rules for responding to alarms address various options for the user to respond to an alarm explicitly or implicitly by their location or motion. For example a user being in the room with the patient may cause the alarm to be automatically accepted by that user . A similar rule may be used when the user is in motion moving into or towards the patient . On the contrary if modeling of user behavior assignment previous alarms or other information indicates that the user is in another location away from the patient is busy and is not moving toward the patient a response rejecting the alarm may be inferred.

Additionally rules for responding to alarms may address various options for the user to issue or establish a communication with another user the patient or one or more other individuals as part of their response to an alarm. For example the user may accept the alarm while also generating a quick message. The message may be entered as text speak or select from a preexisting list. As an alternative example the user may forward the alarm to another user along with such a message. According to yet other examples the user may be able to initiate surveillance of the patient room using video still images audio or any combination thereof. Also the user may be able to establish a voice or video call with another user the patient or one or more other individuals regarding the alarm.

Additionally rules for responding to alarms may address various options for the user to request additional information about the alarm or the patient . For example the user may be provided options for taking another measurement taking a different measurement changing the frequency of monitoring order tests labs request medical imaging and so forth. Other examples may support patient information or additional requested information to be forwarded to another clinician.

In block the alarm management system can train the rules according to expected or typical response behavior from the users . The rules can adapt to best manage alarm response according to one or more of various metrics. Example metrics may include how rapidly users acknowledge alarms reduction in ignored alarms percentage of alarms get accepted over rejected how rapidly or correctly the user addresses the need of the patient user stress reduction patient health outcomes patient satisfaction outcomes cost reductions readmission reductions discharge facilitations and so forth.

The training or adaptation of the rules can support the alarm management system in managing alarm responses in a fashion that has been learned or adapted by the system to improve user reactions or otherwise assist the user in effectively handing alarm notices. The training or adaptation of the rules can also support the alarm management system in determining when the user is not responded as expected or as they usually do. This determination can serve as a response in itself. For example if a particular user generally acknowledges alarms within 45 seconds and in a certain instance 60 seconds have passed without acknowledgement the alarm management system may determine that the user is unavailable. At that time the alarm management system may proceed to forward the alarm to another user escalate it to a supervisor or take some other course of action. According to other examples the alarm management system may attempt to use a modified alarm tone after the typical tone was not acknowledged. If the response time of the user while hearing the modified tone is less than the user s usual time then the alarm management system may learn to use the modified tone as the primary tone for the user going forward.

According to other examples the alarm management system can learn a typical response time for that user or a category of users and when the typical time is exceeded by some margin the alarm device can replay a slightly perturbed version of the alarm tone in an attempt to get the attention of the user . Example modifications to the tone may include using the same musical composition in a different key using the same tone played significantly faster using the same musical key in a different composition using the same tone played at a different speed increasing the amplitude or modulating the amplitude and so forth. For example the second alarm tone may be similar to the primary alarm tone but altered in such a way that the user will recognize the tone but perceive it as different from the alarm tones that may be ignored as a result of hearing them repeatedly many times each day. Such changes may only need to be different enough to break through any alarm fatigue from the user . Similarly the alarm tones may be replayed at random or varying intervals to confuse the user away from ignoring the alarm or thus avoiding alarm fatigue.

In block the alarm management system can apply rules to determine response options to offer to a particular user for a particular alarm scenario or context. The rules may be those associated with users responding to alarms as established in block . The rules may be applied by the rule implementation system associated with the alarm management system to determine which options for response should be offered to the user via the user mobile device when presenting an alarm to the user . In block the alarm management system can present an alarm to a user along with one or more response options as determined in block .

In block the alarm management system can receive response behavior from a user associated with the presentation of the alarm in block . The response behavior may include explicit responses such as acting on the response options discussed with respect to block . For example the user may click to accept or reject the alarm request addition information forward the alarm or so forth. According to other examples the response behavior may be implied such as the user suddenly moving towards the patient or an implied rejection escalation from the user doing nothing at all.

In block the alarm management system can apply rules to interpret the response behavior received from the user in block . The response of the user to an alarm may be interpreted in relation to the context of the patient the context of the user the context of the alarm learned use patters and so forth. The response to be interpreted may be explicit or implied. In block the alarm management system can adapt the rules in light of the response behavior and or associated patient outcomes.

The rule implementation system can implement the alarm processing associated intelligence associated with the alarm management system . In block the rule implementation system can provide a graph database for storing rules and facts and responding to questions . The graph database can provide persistence of the rules and facts associated with the rule implementation system .

In block the rule implementation system can receive a new fact via the interface module . The interface module can provide an API scripting interface DSL or other mechanism for interfacing to the rule implementation system .

In block the database translation module of the rule implementation system can insert the received fact into the graph database as one or more nodes

In block the rule implementation system can receive a new rule via the interface module . The interface module can provide an API scripting interface DSL or other mechanism for interfacing to the rule implementation system .

In block the rule implementation system can convert the received rule to a format suitable for insertion into the graph database . For example the rule may be converted to one or more nodes and one or more edges .

In block the database translation module of the rule implementation system can insert the converted rule into the graph database . Rules may be inserted by adding one or more nodes to the graph database and then forming one or more edges between newly inserted nodes or existing nodes . These edges establish relationship between the nodes which may represent facts . For example the rule all ravens are black might be represented in the graph database by creating nodes for ravens and black followed by connecting those nodes with an edge having the property or implication of is or are. Were this same example rule received while nodes for ravens and black already exist then the rule may be entered by merely forming the relationship edge between those two nodes.

In block the rule implementation system can receive a question . In block the rule implementation system can perform a rule query against the graph database in response to the received question . The question may be pattern matched against facts and relationships stored within the nodes and edges of the graph database by issuing a query to the graph database . In response to the query various facts may be reported facts and or rules may be asserted or retracted within the graph database or actions may be initiated by the triggering of rules . It should be appreciated that these questions and related queries may relate to the operational rules for a healthcare information system such as those associated with voice communications roles alarms and message of various actors such as nurses technicians physicians specialists or other clinical providers.

In block the rule implementation system can assert one or more facts by adding one or more fact nodes within the graph database in response to the rule query of block .

In block the rule implementation system can retract one or more facts by removing one or more fact nodes of the graph database in response to the rule query of block .

In block the rule implementation system can generate actions based upon facts retrieved from the graph database in response to the rule query. Facts can be retrieved from the graph database via the interface module or by using a native query language of the graph database . Actions may also be based upon rules triggered or fired with respect to the graph database in response to the rule query.

The computing machine may be implemented as a conventional computer system an embedded controller a laptop a server a mobile device a smartphone a set top box a kiosk a vehicular information system one more processors associated with a television a customized machine any other hardware platform or any combination or multiplicity thereof. The computing machine may be a distributed system configured to function using multiple computing machines interconnected via a data network or bus system.

The processor may be configured to execute code or instructions to perform the operations and functionality described herein manage request flow and address mappings and to perform calculations and generate commands. The processor may be configured to monitor and control the operation of the components in the computing machine . The processor may be a general purpose processor a processor core a multiprocessor a reconfigurable processor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a graphics processing unit GPU a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components any other processing unit or any combination or multiplicity thereof. The processor may be a single processing unit multiple processing units a single processing core multiple processing cores special purpose processing cores co processors or any combination thereof. According to certain embodiments the processor along with other components of the computing machine may be a virtualized computing machine executing within one or more other computing machines.

The system memory may include non volatile memories such as read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other device capable of storing program instructions or data with or without applied power. The system memory also may include volatile memories such as random access memory RAM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM and synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Other types of RAM also may be used to implement the system memory . The system memory may be implemented using a single memory module or multiple memory modules. While the system memory is depicted as being part of the computing machine one skilled in the art will recognize that the system memory may be separate from the computing machine without departing from the scope of the subject technology. It should also be appreciated that the system memory may include or operate in conjunction with a non volatile storage device such as the storage media .

The storage media may include a hard disk a floppy disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD a Blu ray disc a magnetic tape a flash memory other non volatile memory device a solid state drive SSD any magnetic storage device any optical storage device any electrical storage device any semiconductor storage device any physical based storage device any other data storage device or any combination or multiplicity thereof. The storage media may store one or more operating systems application programs and program modules such as module data or any other information. The storage media may be part of or connected to the computing machine . The storage media may also be part of one or more other computing machines that are in communication with the computing machine such as servers database servers cloud storage network attached storage and so forth.

The module may comprise one or more hardware or software elements configured to facilitate the computing machine with performing the various methods and processing functions presented herein. The module may include one or more sequences of instructions stored as software or firmware in association with the system memory the storage media or both. The storage media may therefore represent examples of machine or computer readable media on which instructions or code may be stored for execution by the processor . Machine or computer readable media may generally refer to any medium or media used to provide instructions to the processor . Such machine or computer readable media associated with the module may comprise a computer software product. It should be appreciated that a computer software product comprising the module may also be associated with one or more processes or methods for delivering the module to the computing machine via the network any signal bearing medium or any other communication or delivery technology. The module may also comprise hardware circuits or information for configuring hardware circuits such as microcode or configuration information for an FPGA or other PLD.

The input output I O interface may be configured to couple to one or more external devices to receive data from the one or more external devices and to send data to the one or more external devices. Such external devices along with the various internal devices may also be known as peripheral devices. The I O interface may include both electrical and physical connections for operably coupling the various peripheral devices to the computing machine or the processor . The I O interface may be configured to communicate data addresses and control signals between the peripheral devices the computing machine or the processor . The I O interface may be configured to implement any standard interface such as small computer system interface SCSI serial attached SCSI SAS fiber channel peripheral component interconnect PCI PCI express PCIe serial bus parallel bus advanced technology attachment ATA serial ATA SATA universal serial bus USB Thunderbolt FireWire various video buses and the like. The I O interface may be configured to implement only one interface or bus technology. Alternatively the I O interface may be configured to implement multiple interfaces or bus technologies. The I O interface may be configured as part of all of or to operate in conjunction with the system bus . The I O interface may include one or more buffers for buffering transmissions between one or more external devices internal devices the computing machine or the processor .

The I O interface may couple the computing machine to various input devices including mice touch screens scanners biometric readers electronic digitizers sensors receivers touchpads trackballs cameras microphones keyboards any other pointing devices or any combinations thereof. The I O interface may couple the computing machine to various output devices including video displays speakers printers projectors tactile feedback devices automation control robotic components actuators motors fans solenoids valves pumps transmitters signal emitters lights and so forth.

The computing machine may operate in a networked environment using logical connections through the network interface to one or more other systems or computing machines across the network . The network may include wide area networks WAN local area networks LAN intranets the Internet wireless access networks wired networks mobile networks telephone networks optical networks or combinations thereof. The network may be packet switched circuit switched of any topology and may use any communication protocol. Communication links within the network may involve various digital or an analog communication media such as fiber optic cables free space optics waveguides electrical conductors wireless links antennas radio frequency communications and so forth.

The processor may be connected to the other elements of the computing machine or the various peripherals discussed herein through the system bus . It should be appreciated that the system bus may be within the processor outside the processor or both. According to some embodiments any of the processor the other elements of the computing machine or the various peripherals discussed herein may be integrated into a single device such as a system on chip SOC system on package SOP or ASIC device.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with a opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

One or more aspects of embodiments may comprise a computer program that embodies the functions described and illustrated herein wherein the computer program is implemented in a computer system that comprises instructions stored in a machine readable medium and a processor that executes the instructions. However it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing embodiments in computer programming and the invention should not be construed as limited to any one set of computer program instructions. Further a skilled programmer would be able to write such a computer program to implement an embodiment of the disclosed invention based on the appended flow charts and associated description in the application text. Therefore disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding of how to make and use the invention. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more aspects of the invention described herein may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems. Moreover any reference to an act being performed by a computer should not be construed as being performed by a single computer as more than one computer may perform the act.

The example embodiments described herein can be used with computer hardware and software that perform the methods and processing functions described previously. The systems methods and procedures described herein can be embodied in a programmable computer computer executable software or digital circuitry. The software can be stored on computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include a floppy disk RAM ROM hard disk removable media flash memory memory stick optical media magneto optical media CD ROM etc. Digital circuitry can include integrated circuits gate arrays building block logic field programmable gate arrays FPGA etc.

The example systems methods and acts described in the embodiments presented previously are illustrative and in alternative embodiments certain acts can be performed in a different order in parallel with one another omitted entirely and or combined between different example embodiments and or certain additional acts can be performed without departing from the scope and spirit of embodiments of the invention. Accordingly such alternative embodiments are included in the inventions described herein.

Although specific embodiments have been described above in detail the description is merely for purposes of illustration. It should be appreciated therefore that many aspects described above are not intended as required or essential elements unless explicitly stated otherwise. Modifications of and equivalent components or acts corresponding to the disclosed aspects of the example embodiments in addition to those described above can be made by a person of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention defined in the following claims the scope of which is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass such modifications and equivalent structures.

