---

title: Concurrent uses of non-cellular interfaces for participating in hybrid cellular and non-cellular networks
abstract: The subject matter describes software, devices, networks, and methods to configure a non-cellular interface of a wireless device to establish two or more wireless links in a hybrid of cellular network and a non-cellular network. The advantage of concurrent uses of non-cellular interfaces maximizes the use of computing and communication resources to perform multi-hop communication and to expand the coverage of cellular networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414434&OS=09414434&RS=09414434
owner: M87, INC.
number: 09414434
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140429
---
This application is a divisional application of Ser. No. 14 092 446 filed Nov. 27 2013 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Cellular communications have gained much popularity since 1990s. Traditionally cellular networks are connected to public switched telephone network PSTN and are dedicated to voice communications. With advance packet switching technologies any raw signals can be formed in packets which can flow from the sender to the destination via the cellular networks and non cellular networks. On the other hand the manufacturing cost of cell phones or mobile phones has decreased significantly so mobile phones become affordable. It is believed that the mobile phones have penetrated more than 85 of the global population. Furthermore more functionalities are added to mobile phones leading the boundaries between mobile phones and personal computing devices to disappear. Many mobiles phones now become smartphones or personal mobile computers. The smartphones allow subscribers not only to talk but also to enjoy the use of the Internet.

Due to a large volume of subscribers using smartphones the demand of cellular transmission increases exponentially. However the bandwidths of cellular networks are limited. A typical solution to the problem of bandwidth deficiency is to install more cellular base stations. Nevertheless in the greater metropolitan areas e.g. New York City Chicago Los Angeles London and Tokyo there are sparse or no spaces to install more cellular base stations. Even though installing more base stations is feasible users located at the marginal to inoperative regions such as the coverage edges of base stations hilly terrain concrete walls or tall buildings still face weak or blocked signals. As a sequel a new way to increase the cellular coverage is necessary.

Advantages of the subject matter described herein utilize non cellular interfaces in a wireless device to concurrently perform multiple wireless connections. Non cellular networks such as wireless local area networks Bluetooth networks and the Internet are ubiquitous and are also directly or indirectly connected with cellular networks. The subject matter described herein exploits the hybrid of cellular and non cellular networks to expand the coverage of cellular base stations. When a wireless device participates in a hybrid network the subject method can configure the device s non cellular interface to originate or relay a cellular communication via hopping on the non cellular network without interrupting an existing non cellular connection of the device. The concurrent uses of the non cellular interface maximize the utilization of its computing and communication resources to expand the cellular coverage.

In one aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor to create an application comprising a a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for establishing a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point and b a second software module configuring the non cellular interface and a cellular interface for relaying a cellular communication between an originating wireless device and a cellular base station wherein relaying the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device ii establishing and maintaining an internal bridge between the second non cellular virtual interface and the cellular interface and iii establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the cellular interface and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein is a wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface and c a processor configured to provide an application comprising i a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for establishing a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point and ii a second software module configuring the non cellular interface and the cellular interface for relaying a cellular communication between an originating wireless device and a cellular base station wherein relaying the cellular communication comprises 1 establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device 2 establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the second non cellular virtual interface and the cellular interface and 3 establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the cellular interface and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor to create an application comprising a a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point and b a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for originating and maintaining a cellular communication between the non cellular interface and a relaying wireless device wherein originating the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device and ii requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the relaying wireless device and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein is a wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface and c a processor configured to provide an application comprising i a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point and ii a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for originating and maintaining a cellular communication between the non cellular interface and a relaying wireless device wherein originating the cellular communication comprises 1 establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device and 2 requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the relaying wireless device and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor to create an application comprising a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between an originating wireless device and a relaying wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises a establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device b establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device c establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the first and the second wireless links wherein the wireless links use different communication protocols and d requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the relaying wireless device and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein is a wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface and c a processor configured to provide an application comprising a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between an originating wireless device and a relaying wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device ii establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device iii establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the first and the second wireless links wherein the wireless links use different protocols and iv requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the relaying wireless device and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor to create an application comprising a a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point and b a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between an originating wireless device and a relaying wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises i establishing a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device ii establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device iii establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the second and the third wireless links and iv requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the relaying wireless device and a cellular base station.

In another aspect disclosed herein is a wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface and c a processor configured to provide an application comprising i a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point ii a second software module configuring and maintaining the non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between an originating wireless device and a relaying wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises 1 establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device 2 establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device 3 establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the second and the third wireless links and 4 requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the relaying wireless device and a cellular base station.

Cellular communications have gained much popularity since 1990s. The principle of cellular communications is to divide a broad land area into a number of regular shaped cells for example hexagonal square or circular shapes. Each of the cells is assigned one or more cellular base stations or cellular towers as hubs to manage wireless connectivity between mobile phones or called cell phones and the base stations. The base stations are further connected to public switched telephone network PSTN so traditionally the mobile phones in cellular networks were dedicated to voice communications.

With the advent of packet switching technologies raw signals e.g. voice can be formed in packets which can flow from a sender to a destination without a direct link between the sender and the destination. When cellular networks are deployed with packet switching technologies a mobile computing device can connect to the Internet or other data networks via a data cellular network. Thanks to modern semiconductor engineering the sizes of electronic circuitries keep shrinking When a mobile phone is equipped with electronic chips for handling traditional cellular networks and data cellular networks the boundary between mobile phone and mobile computing device becomes illusive. Most modern mobile phones are also mobile computing devices.

The manufacturing cost of mobile devices has decreased significantly. Mobile devices become affordable to the general public. It is believed that the mobile devices have penetrated more than 85 of the global population. With a dramatically increasing number of mobile device users telecommunication providers face a challenge to expand their coverage. Moreover more functionalities e.g. camera web search emails maps Internet surfing have been added to mobile phones and mobile devices. Mobile device users demand more bandwidths to enjoy the added functionalities. Such a demand compounds the challenge faced by the telecommunication providers.

To address the surging bandwidth demand in cellular networks a typical solution is to install more cellular base stations. Nevertheless in the greater metropolitan areas by way of non limiting examples such as New York City Chicago Los Angeles London and Tokyo there are sparse or no spaces to install more cellular base stations. Even though in the cases where installing more base stations is feasible users located at the marginal to inoperative regions such as the cell edges of base stations hilly terrain concrete walls or tall buildings still face weak or blocked signals. In particular the cellular signals at a cell edge not only are weak but also encounter interference induced by adjacent cells leading to a more serious problem. As a sequel a new way to increase the cellular coverage is necessary.

In typical cellular communication systems a mobile device directly communicates with a cellular base station. In other words the device connects to the cellular base station via a single hop where the signals are transmitted and received directly between the device and the cellular base station without being mediated or relayed through an intermediary device. Based on the single hopping communication the maximum number of mobile phones simultaneously connecting to the base station is limited because the bandwidth of the base station is limited. Although sophisticated schemes of modulation and error correcting codes can be adopted the data rates need to be sacrificed.

In addition to cellular networks there exist various non cellular wireless networks for instance but not limited to wireless local area networks wireless wide area networks Bluetooth networks and in general the Internet. Modern technologies allow both cellular interface and non cellular interface to be embedded in a mobile device. In other words a modern mobile device can participate in a cellular network via the cellular interface or participate in a non cellular network via the non cellular interface. While the two interfaces independently sit in the same mobile device the subject matter described herein exploits both types of interfaces to expand the coverage of cellular networks.

The subject matter described herein solves the aforementioned problems by using multi hop schemes in a hybrid of cellular networks and non cellular networks. The subject matter can be applied to some embodiments of not only mobile devices but also generic wireless devices. To expand the coverage of a cellular communication system a first wireless device with a poor cellular signal may use its non cellular interface to communicate to a second wireless device which has a good cellular signal and relays the signals from the first wireless device to the cellular base station. In such embodiments the cellular resources such as data rate and bandwidth of the second wireless device is shared with the first wireless device. The first wireless device successfully communicates to the cellular base station via two hops hopping to the second wireless device that in turn hops to the cellular base station. The double hop connectivity in these embodiments can be extended to a multi hop connectivity. For example the first wireless device can hop to the second wireless device then to a third wireless device and finally to a cellular base station. The number of hops can be as many as possible as long as some criteria are satisfied by way of non limiting examples such as battery life noise level interference level data rate and bandwidth.

The subject matter described herein can further maximize the resources of the non cellular interfaces by performing concurrent tasks on the non cellular interfaces. In a hybrid multi hop network a wireless device may have a different role a sink device an originating device and a relaying device. A sink device is a wireless device that has a direct link to a cellular base station. An originating device is a wireless device that has no optimal single hop wireless link to a cellular base station and that is an end terminal in the path of hopping to the cellular base station. A relaying device is a wireless device that is an intermediary device in a hopping path. No matter which role a wireless device plays its non cellular interface can be configured to perform more than one task. In a sink device it can relay a hopping signal to a cellular base station while connecting itself to a non cellular access point. Alternatively a sink device may concurrently relay two or more hopping devices. In an originating device it hops to another relaying sink device while connecting itself to a non cellular access point. In a relaying device its non cellular interface is used to establish an upstream link and a downstream link to complete a hopping path furthermore the relaying device can connect itself to a non cellular access point.

Advantages of the subject matter described herein utilize non cellular interfaces in a wireless device to concurrently perform multiple wireless connections. Non cellular networks such as wireless local area networks Bluetooth networks and the Internet are ubiquitous and are also directly or indirectly connected with cellular networks. The subject matter exploits the hybrid of cellular and non cellular networks to expand the coverage of cellular base stations. When a wireless device participates in a hybrid network the subject method can configure the device s non cellular interface to originate or relay a cellular communication via hopping on the non cellular network without interrupting an existing non cellular connection of the originating device or of the relaying device. The concurrent uses of the non cellular interface maximize the utilization of its computing and communication resources to expand the cellular coverage.

In some embodiments described herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor of a sink wireless device to create an application comprising 1 a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point 2 a second software module configuring the non cellular interface and a cellular interface for relaying a cellular communication between a downstream wireless device and a cellular base station wherein relaying the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the downstream wireless device ii establishing and maintaining an internal bridge between the second non cellular virtual interface and the cellular interface and iii establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the cellular interface and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein is a sink wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface c a processor configured to provide an application comprising i a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point ii a second software module configuring the non cellular interface and the cellular interface for relaying a cellular communication between a downstream wireless device and a cellular base station wherein relaying the cellular communication comprises 1 establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the downstream wireless device 2 establishing and maintaining an internal bridge between the second non cellular virtual interface and the cellular interface and 3 establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the cellular interface and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor of an originating device to create an application comprising a a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point b a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for originating a cellular communication between the non cellular interface and a relaying wireless device wherein originating the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device ii requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the originating wireless device and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein is an originating wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface c a processor configured to provide an application comprising i a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point ii a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for originating a cellular communication between the non cellular interface and the originating wireless device wherein originating the cellular communication comprises 1 establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the relaying wireless device 2 requesting the relaying wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the originating wireless device and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor of a relaying wireless device to create an application comprising a software module configuring a non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between a downstream wireless device and an upstream wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises a establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and the downstream wireless device b establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the upstream wireless device c establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the first and the second wireless links wherein the wireless links use different protocols and d requesting the upstream wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the upstream wireless device and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein is a relaying wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface c a processor configured to provide an application comprising a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between a downstream wireless device and an upstream wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and the downstream wireless device ii establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the upstream wireless device iii establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the first and the second wireless links wherein the wireless links use different protocols and iv requesting the upstream wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the upstream wireless device and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a mobile processor of a relaying wireless device to create an application comprising a a first software module configuring a non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point b a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between a downstream wireless device and an upstream wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises i establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the downstream wireless device ii establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the non cellular interface and the upstream wireless device iii establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the second and the third wireless links and iv requesting the upstream wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the upstream wireless device and a cellular base station.

In some embodiments described herein is a relaying wireless device on a hybrid of a cellular network and a non cellular network comprising a a cellular interface b a non cellular interface c a processor configured to provide an application comprising i a first software module configuring the non cellular interface for establishing and maintaining a first wireless link between the non cellular interface and a non cellular access point ii a second software module configuring the non cellular interface for bridging a cellular communication between a downstream wireless device and an upstream wireless device wherein bridging the cellular communication comprises 1 establishing and maintaining a second wireless link between the non cellular interface and the downstream wireless device 2 establishing and maintaining a third wireless link between the non cellular interface and the upstream wireless device 3 establishing and maintaining an internal transfer between the second and the third wireless links and 4 requesting the upstream wireless device to establish and maintain the cellular communication between the upstream wireless device and a cellular base station.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include one or more wireless devices. Suitable wireless devices are by way of non limiting examples mobile phones mobile computing devices smartphones portable computers tablet computers mobile computers hot spots routers gateways switches cameras audio recorders video recorders music players video players portable electronic devices and wearable electronic devices. Alternatively the wireless devices may be non portable devices containing cellular interfaces and or non cellular interfaces by way of a non limiting example a computing device in a data center may have an adaptor for cellular communication and another adaptor for non cellular communication.

In some embodiments a wireless device used by the subject matter described herein is equipped with a non cellular interface only i.e. the device doesn t comprise a cellular interface. With appropriate configuration the wireless device can utilize the non cellular interface to establish two concurrent wireless links. For instance mobile computing devices e.g. iPads equipped with only non cellular interfaces e.g. Wi Fi chipsets may be embodied. In further embodiments the wireless device can use the non cellular interface as a beacon interface to transmit and receive beacon signals.

In some embodiments the wireless devices on a hybrid network described in the subject matter are of the same type. By way of limiting examples the wireless devices could be all mobile phones or portable computers. In other embodiments the types of the wireless devices on a hybrid network are mixed. For instance by way of a non limiting example a wireless device may be a smartphone another wireless device may be a laptop and another wireless device may be a Wi Fi hot spot.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include a wireless device equipped with a digital processor or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processor includes one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processor further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions.

In some embodiments the wireless device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

In some embodiments the wireless device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the storage device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the wireless device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In other embodiments the storage device includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the wireless device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a cathode ray tube CRT . In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments on OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the wireless device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multi touch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera to capture motion or visual input. In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include using an interface for cellular non cellular and or beaconing communications. An interface is a hardware module implemented by an electronic circuitry to generate and receive an electromagnetic wave. In some cases the implementation of the interface belongs to part of an electronic circuitry. By way of a non limiting example the electromagnetic wave may be a radiofrequency wave a light beam or an infrared wave. In some cases the interface may further include an electronic circuitry for controlling the electromagnetic waveform modulation demodulation encoding decoding generation and or receiving. The controlling mechanisms may be implemented by a hardware module by a software module or by a combination of hardware and software modules.

In cellular communications a cellular interface is the interface for connecting a device to a cellular base station. The cellular interface is able to perform a cellular communication with a required protocol. In some embodiments the cellular interface may be dynamically configured to execute distinct cellular communication technologies and protocols by way of non limiting examples such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA High Speed Packet Access HSPA Long Term Evolution LTE Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE Advance Long Term Evolution Direct LTE Direct and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include using a non cellular interface for non cellular network connections. The non cellular interface is able to perform a required protocol to connect itself to another device in a non cellular network. In the industry of information technology non cellular interfaces are frequently referred to as wireless interfaces. Examples of non cellular networks include but not limited to wireless local area networks wireless wide area networks Bluetooth networks and infrared networks. In some embodiments the non cellular interface may be dynamically configured to execute one or more distinct non cellular communication technologies and protocols by way of non limiting examples such as IEEE 802.11 standards IEEE 802.16 standards AP STA protocols Independent Basic Service Set IBSS Peer to Peer P2P P2P GO P2P Client Long Term Evolution Direct LTE Direct Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX IEEE 802.16 Mobile Multi Hop Relay MMR Bluetooth and FlashLinQ.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include using a beacon interface for sending and receiving beacon signals. In certain embodiments the beacon interface is the same as a non cellular interface or a cellular interface. In other embodiments the beacon interface shares part of the circuitry of a non cellular interface or a cellular interface. Alternatively the beacon interface may be an isolated circuitry independent of a cellular interface and independent of a non cellular interface such as by way of non limiting examples devices under standards of IEEE 802.11p standard LTE Direct and FlashLinQ.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include using an interface of a wireless device for cellular non cellular and or beaconing communications. An interface may be a hardware module software module or a combination of hardware and software modules. However appropriately controlling the interface and scheduling various tasks running on the interface can virtually create multiple interfaces on the wireless device allowing the interface to simultaneously execute different tasks. The tasks include by way of non limiting examples transmitting receiving beacon signals establishing wireless links maintaining wireless links routing data frames switching data frames directing data frames readdressing data frames reassembling data frames and handling one or more protocols. The tasks may be realized by another hardware module or they may be implemented by a software module.

Referring to a cellular interface contains common resources for the purpose of cellular communication. The resources may include by way of non limiting examples signal processors antennas oscillators resonators amplifiers transmitters receivers modulators demodulators encoders decoders logic components and or bus connections. The subject matter described herein can configure the common resources to perform multiple tasks in parallel. This process is equivalent to creating virtual cellular interfaces and where each virtual cellular interface can execute an independent task. By way of non limiting examples the virtual interface can connect to a cellular base station using the HSPA protocol the virtual interface can connect to another cellular base station using LTE protocol and the virtual interface can perform a beaconing task.

With reference to similar to wireless interface and cellular interface a beacon interface contains common resources for the purpose of establishing and maintaining cellular and non cellular communication. The resources may include by way of non limiting examples signal processors antennas oscillators resonators amplifiers transmitters receivers modulators demodulators encoders decoders logic components and or bus connections. The subject matter described herein can configure the common resources to perform multiple tasks in parallel. This process is equivalent to creating virtual beacon interfaces and where each virtual beacon interface can execute an independent task. By way of non limiting examples the virtual interface can broadcast the current cellular signal strength the virtual interface can receive beacons from other wireless devices and the virtual interface can send out a hopping request.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein comprise establishing and or maintaining a wireless link. Establishing maintaining a wireless link may be performed by an interface or by a virtual interface. Concurrently establishing maintaining two or more wireless links may be performed by two or more virtual interfaces that are configured on a single interface. Establishing maintaining a wireless link comprises transmitting wireless signals and receiving wireless signals until the end of a communication session. Establishing maintaining a wireless link comprises transmitting wireless signals and receiving wireless signals until the end of a communication session. Transmitting wireless signals includes but not limited to dissembling data files into data packets encoding the data modulating bit streams and or generating electromagnetic waves. Receiving wireless signals includes but not limited to receiving electromagnetic waves demodulating waves decoding bit streams and or assembling data packets into data files. In further embodiments establishing wireless links may be conditioned on some conditions. By way of non limiting examples suitable conditions are battery life bandwidth usages device types node state signals levels of mobility time of day subscription fees user profiles non cellular signal strengths cellular signal strengths noise levels and or interference levels. By way of non limiting examples a battery life may include an amount of energy available an amount of battery storage capacity an amount of remaining unexhausted energy an estimated use of time energy for conducting hopping the current usage pattern of batteries an absolute amount of energy stored an amount of fluid remaining in a reservoir e.g. an amount of hydrogen or methane in a fuel cell . By way of non limiting examples bandwidth usages may include available bandwidth for establishing wireless links an uplink available bandwidth a downlink available bandwidth and an estimated usage of bandwidth the aforementioned bandwidths include cellular bandwidths and non cellular bandwidths. By way of non limiting examples a device type may include a machine type e.g. phone tablet computing device laptop server desktop computer a number of processor cores an amount of memory in the device a number of antennas coupled to a cellular interface of the device a number of antennas coupled to a non cellular interface of the device and an operating system type. By way of non limiting examples a node state signal e.g. a beacon signal may contain information regarding a number of hops between the device and a cellular base station an identifier of a cellular network operator signal strength of a cellular base station at a gateway device or at a sink device a location of the device movement of the device available cellular non cellular bandwidth for hopping a number of hops estimated path loss a channel quality indicator a number of cellular base stations available a ratio of energy per bit to noise per bit signal quality an RSSI value an RCPI value and a number of wireless devices already participating in a channel. By way of non limiting examples a level of mobility may include sensing through components of a wireless device detecting position and changes of position and calculating a Doppler shift of wireless signals received by the wireless device. By way of non limiting examples a time of day may include the time relative to usage profiles and a time relative to busy hours. By way of non limiting examples subscription fees may include an amount that the device user has promised to pay a cellular network operator. By way of non limiting examples user profiles may include user behaviors a user s relationship with the cellular network operator a type of customer e.g. long term customer or pay on the go customer and a number of years having used the network service provider. By way of non limiting examples an interference level may include cellular interference levels and non cellular interference levels.

In some embodiments a wireless device requests another device to relay a cellular communication. The request may explicitly send out a signal or may be embedded in a protocol. The request may be implemented in the physical level or in the software level. The request may be conditioned on some of the aforementioned conditions.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include a wireless device as a sink device. Referring to a sink device is the wireless device that has a direct wireless link to a cellular base station . Configuring the non cellular wireless interface can create two or more virtual non cellular interfaces. In further embodiments one virtual non cellular interface may be used to communicate with a Wi Fi base station or a non cellular access point. The other virtual non cellular interface may be used to communicate to a downstream wireless device . In certain embodiments the wireless link to the wireless device is to allow the wireless device to participate in the hybrid network and transfer data between devices and . Alternatively the sink device uses one of its virtual non cellular interface to relay a cellular communication between the wireless device and the cellular base station wherein relaying the cellular communication comprises establishing and maintaining a wireless link between wireless devices and establishing and maintaining a bridge internal to the device between the cellular interface and non cellular interface and establishing and maintaining a wireless link between the cellular interface and the cellular base station . In some embodiments the sink device can relay two or more other wireless devices.

In the embodiments where a sink device relays a cellular communication the devices contains a module to perform internal data transfer by reassembling one or more data frames received at the virtual non cellular interface into a format defined by the protocol used in the cellular interface and forwarding the reassembled data frames to the cellular interface.

In some embodiments the distinct links to virtual non cellular interfaces of a sink device can run on a same protocol or different protocols. In some embodiments some criteria may be considered for a sink device to relay a cellular communication. By way of nonlimiting examples suitable criteria comprise one or more of the following a battery life a bandwidth usage a device type a node state signal a level of mobility a time of day a subscription fee a user profile a non cellular signal strength a cellular signal strength a noise level and an interference level.

Referring to in some embodiments a sink device may further comprise a beacon interface BI that is concurrently configured to send and receive beacon signals. In these embodiments the beacon interface is part of a non cellular interface part of a cellular interface or an independent circuitry. In the cases where the beacon interface is the same as the non cellular interface the concurrent uses of the non cellular interface are to establish and maintain additional wireless links to perform beacon signaling. In some embodiments the beacon signal comprises one or more of the following a battery life a bandwidth usage a device type a node state signal a level of mobility a time of day a subscription fee a user profile a non cellular signal strength a cellular signal strength a noise level and an interference level.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include a wireless device as an originating device. Referring to an originating device is the wireless device that has no optimal data communication to a cellular base station and that is an end terminal in the path of its cellular communication to the cellular base station . Configuring the non cellular wireless interface can create two or more virtual non cellular interfaces. In further embodiments one virtual non cellular interface may be used to communicate with a Wi Fi base station or a non cellular access point. The other virtual non cellular interface may be used to communicate to an upstream wireless device . In some cases the wireless connection to the wireless device is to transfer data between devices and . In other cases the wireless link to the wireless device is to request the wireless device to relay a communication to a further wireless device a non cellular access point or a cellular base station . In some embodiments the originating device configures its non cellular interface to concurrently connect to two or more other wireless devices.

In some embodiments the distinct links to virtual non cellular interfaces of an originating device can run on a same protocol or on different protocols. In some embodiments some criteria may be considered for an originating device to relay a cellular communication. By way of nonlimiting examples suitable criteria comprise one or more of the following a battery life a bandwidth usage a device type a node state signal a level of mobility a time of day a subscription fee a user profile a non cellular signal strength a cellular signal strength a noise level and an interference level.

Referring to in some embodiments an originating device may further comprise a beacon interface BI that is concurrently configured to send and receive beacon signals. In these embodiments the beacon interface is part of a non cellular interface part of a cellular interface or an independent circuitry. In the cases where the beacon interface is the same as the non cellular interface of an originating device the concurrent uses of the non cellular interface are establishing one or more wireless links and performing beacon signaling. In some embodiments the beacon signal comprises one or more of the following a battery life a bandwidth usage a device type a node state signal a level of mobility a time of day a subscription fee a user profile a non cellular signal strength a cellular signal strength a noise level and an interference level.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods described herein include a wireless device as a relaying device. Referring to a relaying device is the wireless device that is an intermediary device in a communication path. Configuring the non cellular wireless interface can create two or more virtual non cellular interfaces. In further embodiments one virtual non cellular interface may be used to communicate with downstream wireless device and the other may be used to communicate with an upstream wireless device . In some cases the wireless connections to wireless devices and are for the purpose of data transfer. In other cases the wireless links to the wireless devices and are to complete a cellular communication between device and cellular base station .

In some embodiments the distinct links to virtual non cellular interfaces of a relaying device can run on a same protocol. By way of non limiting examples suitable protocol options are IEEE 802.11 standards AP AP protocols STA STA protocols IBSS IBSS protocols P2P GO P2P GO protocols and P2P Client P2P Client protocols. In some other embodiments the distinct links to virtual non cellular interfaces of a relaying device can run on different protocols. By way of non limiting examples suitable protocol options are IEEE 802.11 standards AP STA protocols AP IBSS protocols STA IBSS protocols AP P2P Client protocols AP P2P GO protocols P2P GO STA protocols STA P2P Client protocols P2P GO IBSS protocols P2P Client IBSS protocols and P2P GO P2P Client protocols. Those of skill in the art can recognize various protocols to be combined in the examples. shows embodiments where the links to the relaying device have different protocols. The relaying device creates an internal transfer mechanism to connect the links to devices and . The internal transfer comprises reassembling one or more data frames received from one device into a format defined by the protocol used in the other wireless link to device and forwarding the reassembled data frames to the device . By way of a non limiting example the link between devices and may operate the IBSS protocol while the link between device and may run on the AP STA protocols.

Referring to the relaying device is the wireless device that is an intermediary device in a communication path. Configuring the non cellular wireless interface can create two or more virtual non cellular interfaces. Furthermore one virtual non cellular interface may be used to communicate with a Wi Fi base station and the other may be used to communicate with a downstream wireless device and an upstream wireless device . In some cases a wireless connection to a wireless device or is for the purpose of data transfer. In some other cases the wireless links to the wireless devices and are to complete a cellular communication between device and cellular base station .

In some embodiments where a relaying device connects to a non cellular base station or an access point while relaying two other wireless devices the three wireless links can run on a same protocol or different protocols. Referring to the relaying links between devices and use a same protocol but the link to Wi Fi base station uses a different protocol. By way of a non limiting example the link between device and Wi Fi base station may run on the STA protocol while the links of the device to devices and may operate the IBSS protocol. The virtual non cellular interface for the relaying purpose is similar to a router to transfer the signals between devices and .

In some embodiments like two virtual non cellular interfaces are created to operate two different protocols. The link to Wi Fi base station and the link to the upstream device use a same protocol and share the same virtual non cellular interface. The link to downstream device uses a different protocol. By way of a non limiting example the links of the device to the Wi Fi base station and the upstream device may run on the STA protocol while the link between the devices and may operate the AP protocol.

Illustrated in are embodiments where each of the links of a relaying device to other devices i.e. Wi Fi base station and devices and uses a distinct virtual interface to operate a protocol. By way of a non limiting example the link between the device and Wi Fi base station may use the same STA protocol as the link between the device and the upstream device while the link between the devices and may use another protocol AP. In the embodiments shown in three virtual non cellular interfaces are created on a single non cellular interface to operate three independent links. Since the links to the downstream wireless devices and upstream devices use distinct protocols an internal transfer is added to reassemble one or more data frames received from devices and forward the new data frames to devices .

The relaying devices in embodiments illustrated in and may further comprise a beacon interface that is concurrently configured to send and receive beacon signals illustrated in and respectively. In these embodiments the beacon interface of the relaying device or is part of a non cellular interface part of a cellular interface or an independent circuitry. In the cases where the beacon interface is the same as the non cellular interface the concurrent uses of the non cellular interface are to establish and maintain one or more wireless links and perform beacon signaling. In some embodiments the beacon signal comprises one or more of the following a battery life a bandwidth usage a device type a node state signal a level of mobility a time of day a subscription fee a user profile a non cellular signal strength a cellular signal strength a noise level and an interference level.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods disclosed herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods disclosed herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a mobile application provided to a wireless device. In some embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. In other embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

In view of the disclosure provided herein a mobile application is created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications are written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Objective C Java Javascript Pascal Object Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS or combinations thereof.

Suitable mobile application development environments are available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite .NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments are available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums are available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Android Market BlackBerry App World App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods disclosed herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the media devices networks systems and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of battery life bandwidth usages types of devices levels of mobility time of day subscription fees user profiles non cellular signal strengths cellular signal strengths noise levels and interference levels.

The following illustrative examples are representative of embodiments of the software applications systems networks devices and methods described herein and are not meant to be limiting in any way.

In this example the software developed in the subject matter was distributed to all the wireless devices in the laboratory. Based on one or more of the criteria battery life bandwidth usage signal strength noise level and interference level the wireless devices automatically configured themselves as sink devices relaying devices or originating devices. The concurrent uses of Wi Fi interfaces automatically assembled the devices into a hybrid network and executed multi hopping protocols to carry out cellular communications. When a device had a very low signal level and had no other devices in the neighborhood for relaying its cellular communications it was placed in the idle status.

This example considered the network deployment in Example 1 to evaluate the performance. Without using the subject matter described herein many devices with very low cellular signals cannot transmit data in the cellular network. After using the subject matter described herein these devices can conduct cellular communication by hopping to other devices. The increased cellular coverage was one of the phenomenal advantages.

The evaluation was further based on signal strength measurements. The evaluation simulated a common user behavior by sending a request to a web server in order to download a 25 MB data file where both uplinks and downlinks were made through cellular communication channels. Within a nine hour period from 8 am to 5 pm on a test day each wireless device repeated the process of sending the request and downloading the 25 MB file until the end of the test. Every 1 minute the wireless devices recorded the signal strengths. Note that in the hopping system an originating device may have no cellular signal or a very weak cellular signal when it is directly linked to a cellular base station however it hopped to a sink device to share the cellular signals of the sink device so the signal strength obtained by the originating devices can be recorded.

In the laboratory there was a second set of same wireless devices as a baseline which was deployed in the same layout as the test set of devices. The baseline set of devices had no capability to concurrently use the Wi Fi interface. In other words without concurrent use of the Wi Fi chipset a sink device with direct links to cellular base stations was not allowed to relay cellular signals from one or more originating device. The identical evaluation procedure was replicated to the baseline set of devices.

In addition to average signal strength in all devices the performance evaluation was further conducted on the originating devices only. The originating devices in the baseline set had no cellular signals or very low cellular signals and they were unable to optimally establish cellular communications with cellular base stations. With concurrent use of Wi Fi interfaces these originating devices could acquire cellular signals through multi hopping. The increased signal strength in the originating devices was an important indicator to quantify the merits of the subject matter. displays the signal strengths in the test set and the baseline set of originating devices. The plots in prove that the signal strength with concurrent use of Wi Fi interfaces was superior to the baseline signal strength. The average signal strength based on concurrent use of Wi Fi interfaces achieved the level of 65 dB but the signal strength without concurrent use was only 74 dB. The average signal gain was about 9 dB.

Besides measuring signal strengths the signal gains acquired in individual wireless devices were measured. shows the signal gains in individual devices over the test day where the minima the maxima and the average gains are plotted. From this figure it is easy to visualize that the 9 dB signal gains were homogeneously across all the devices.

This example aimed at measuring the channel capacity for data transfer. We placed a set of 30 mobile phones in the laboratory as shown in the layout in . The subject software was installed in the mobile phones to concurrently utilize the Wi Fi interfaces for cellular communication. Each mobile phone was tested for a period of 30 minutes. During the test period the mobile phone repeated the following sequence of tasks randomly delaying 5 35 seconds downloading a 5 MB file randomly delaying 5 20 seconds and uploading the file. Similar to previous examples a second set of mobile phones without concurrent uses of Wi Fi interfaces were deployed as baseline. displays the measurements of empirical channel capacities of wireless device. This subject matter achieved 4.1 GB data capacity greater than the baseline by 13.7 .

In addition to channel capacity another evaluation was to measure the data rate by modulation schemes. We considered the number of phones using a higher degree of quadrature amplitude modulation QAM . Based on signal strength noise level and interference level the phones were able to adapt themselves to use one of the following modulation schemes 64 QAM 16 QAM and 4 QAM. Using a higher degree of modulation implied that the signal quality is better to transmit data at a higher rate. shows that this subject matter was able to involve more phones using 64 QAM. This experiment demonstrates higher data rates were achievable by the subject method.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

