---

title: Turbo-electric compressor/generator using Halbach arrays
abstract: The present invention is a turbojet design that integrates power generation into the turbojet itself, rather than use separate generators attached to the turbojet for power generation. By integrating the power generation within the jet engine, the weight of the overall system is significantly reduced, increasing system efficiency. Also, by integrating the power generating elements of the system within the air flow of the jet engine, the present invention can use the heat generated by the power generating elements (which is simply expelled waste heat in current designs) to increase the engine performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09494044&OS=09494044&RS=09494044
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09494044
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140402
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to electric generation and more specifically to electric generation for a turbo electric compressor such as is used in a turbojet .

In general the current approach for the design of a turbojet is to provide side mounted generators that require a ninety degree gearbox configuration. The problems associated with such a design is that this requires the weight of a gearbox and the direct connection of power generators result in a constriction of the flow path which generates significant heat to the system.

To attempt to improve this design previous patents have addressed increasing the power density of the system by creating dual functions of rotating machinery and tightening system integration see U.S. Pat. No. 6 832 486 and U.S. patent application 2008 0265580 however these designs neglect the heat issues mentioned above which are inherent in a radial flux design.

While recent small motor designs have been developed that employ an axial flux arrangement none of these has included the capability of combining a compressor and motor unit that would be essential for power generation for a turbo electric compressor.

Therefore it is desired to provide an integrated turbo electric compressor that provides power generation for a turbojet type of propulsion system that is lighter weight than current designs and increases thermodynamic efficiency.

The invention proposed herein comprises a combination compressor generator motor system for a turbojet that improves performance over present systems.

Accordingly it is an objective of this invention to provide a combination compressor generator motor system for a turbojet that decreases the weight of the system.

It is another objective to provide a combination compressor generator motor system for a turbojet that reuses waste heat produced by power generation.

This invention meets these and other objectives related to electric generation for a turbo compressor by providing an axial flow compressor generator motor system comprising a rotatable shaft within a stationary circular outer rim surrounding the shaft. A plurality of compressor rotor blades attached around the shaft making them rotatable within the outer rim. Each of the compressor rotor blades has at least one permanent magnet Halbach array arranged thereon so that an electro magnetic flux is present and directed to one side of the rotor blades. A plurality of stator blades are attached on one end to the outer rim and adjacent to the side of the rotor blades where the electro magnetic flux is directed. Each of the stator blades has a plurality of electro magnetic conductive media arranged on them. A sleeve surrounds a portion of the shaft directly under the stator blades with each of the stator blades connected thereto allowing the shaft to rotate so that the rotor blades rotate while the shaft rotates but keeping the stator blades stationary. When the shaft and rotor blades rotate relative to the stationary stator blades the present electro magnetic flux moves across the stator blade electro magnetic conductive media creating a current.

The present invention is a turbojet design that integrates power generation into the turbojet itself rather than use separate generators attached to the turbojet for power generation. By integrating the power generation within the jet engine the weight of the overall system is significantly reduced increasing system efficiency. Also by integrating the power generating elements of the system within the air flow of the jet engine the present invention can use the heat generated by the power generating elements which is simply expelled waste heat in current designs to increase the engine performance.

It is to be understood by those skilled in the art that the power generation elements described herein are to be integrated directly with a jet engine or the like to replace the separate generators that are normally employed when using a jet engine. The power generation elements of the present invention are meant to be inserted into the air flow of the jet engine either in front of the engine by adjusting the power generation elements to work with the variable inlet guide vanes of the outer spool fan of the jet engine or preferably by inserting the elements between the outer spool fan and the inner spool compressor of the jet engine. In either configuration the power generation elements of the present invention are designed to provide for axial air flow there through as part of the jet engine itself.

In general the present invention is an axial air flow compressor generator motor system that is incorporated into and provides power for a jet engine. Referring to the present invention comprises an axial flow power generation elements integrated with a standard jet engine such as a turbojet or similar including for example a bypass air duct and shroud a high pressure compressor a fan section a fan shroud a burner section and a turbine section . The axial power generation elements comprise a rotatable shaft which would be the overarching shaft used within the jet engine itself which has one end of a plurality of compressor rotor blades attached thereto. The other end of the rotor blades are free from attachment so that when the shaft rotates the rotor blades freely rotate as well. In a preferred embodiment about twenty rotor blades are arranged around the shaft . It is also preferred that the rotor blades are thin enough to allow air to flow readily between them while rotating and that the rotor blades are made of a titanium alloy.

Each rotor blade has at least one permanent magnet Halbach array configured thereon so that the present electro magnetic flux caused by the array is directed to one side of the rotor blades . In a preferred embodiment the permanent magnet Halbach arrays comprise neodymium iron boron or samarium cobalt.

A circular outer rim surrounds the shaft and rotor blades so that the rotor blades may rotate freely as the shaft rotates. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the circular outer rim is part of the overall outer casing of the jet engine either attached to the front of the engine casing or part of the casing if the elements discussed herein are incorporated between existing portions of the engine . The circular outer rim preferably will be made of a titanium alloy as will other support structures associated with the present invention as described herein .

A plurality of stator blades are affixed on one end to the outer rim and on the other end to a sleeve surrounding a portion of the shaft . The sleeve is adjacent to the attachment point of the rotor blades to the shaft so that the stator blades are adjacent to the rotor blades . As the stator blades are attached at both ends they are stationary during operation of the system. The sleeve is hollow and is suspended around the shaft without contacting the shaft so that the shaft may rotate freely. Preferably the number of stator blades is the same as the number of rotor blades .

A plurality of electro magnetic conductive media are embedded along the stator blades on the side closest to the side of the rotor blades . The electro magnetic conductive media comprises a material that can accept and transfer the electro magnetic flux created by the rotation of the rotor blades in relation to the stationary stator blades thereby generating a current used by the jet engine for power. In a preferred embodiment the electro magnetic conductive media comprises enameled copper coils or bars or Litz wire with a ferromagnetic core and are arranged lengthwise down the blade of the stator blades with silicon steel backing.

In operation air would flow from the rotator blade side of the system through the stator blade side of the system. The shaft would rotate causing the rotor blades to rotate. As an electro magnetic flux would be present on one side of the rotating rotor blades the electro magnetic flux would be transferred to the electro magnetic conductive media on the stator blades . In turn this would generate an electric current which could provide power to a jet engine.

Referring to the thermodynamic aspects of a conventional turbo generator are compared to those of the present invention. The elements of the flow chart are as follows is the LPC low pressure compressor is the AFAF axial flux axial flow regen in is the HPC high pressure compressor is the heat in from the burner is the HPT high pressure turbine is the LPT low pressure turbine is the electrical generator is the electrical power generated and is the heat generated. While the actual physical shaft location of the AFAF generator is before the HPC the arrangement shown in the flowchart is simply to demonstrate the thermodynamic regeneration cycle. As can be seen in a conventional turbo generator the heat generated by the system is merely expelled as waste heat. This both creates a cooling issue and wastes energy. In the present invention the heat generated by the system is regenerated and used as energy into the system due to the fact that the present invention is integrated into the jet engine itself and accepts and expels air flow unlike the power elements of a conventional turbo generator system . As such the present invention is more efficient than a conventional turbo generator.

What is described herein are specific examples of many possible variations on the same invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above.

