---

title: Background delivery of device configuration and branding
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to methods and systems for activating and/or customizing a mobile device. A mobile device may comprise a brand configuration system operable to monitor activity on the device, analyze the monitored activity, build a queue of probable brand-specific data based on the analysis, and download the queued data from a brand configuration server. In some embodiments, a brand configuration process may be completed in the background on a device while an activation process is being completed in the foreground of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392395&OS=09392395&RS=09392395
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09392395
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140116
---
Mobile communication devices may be purchased at service provider retail stores electronics retail stores and or at general retail stores. A variety of activities may be performed to bring a new mobile communication into service. To use a mobile communication device on a cellular network it may first be provisioned. Provisioning a mobile communication device e.g. a mobile phone to operate on a wireless network involves defining and or adjusting the mobile communication device s settings that are stored in the device and the settings stored on the network so that the mobile communication device may properly access communication services and or execute one or more desired applications and the network may recognize the mobile communication device as authorized to receive service for those applications. Additionally brand specific content and or applications may be downloaded and used on the mobile device. The brand specific content may personalize the device for a user operator and or servicer of the device.

In an embodiment a mobile device is disclosed. The mobile device comprises a processor a memory an activation application stored in the memory and executed by the processor operable to complete an activation process on the mobile device a monitoring application stored in the memory and executed by the processor operable to monitor activity on the mobile device and an analyzer application stored in the memory and executed by the processor operable to receive information from the monitor application and build a queue of brand specific data to be downloaded to the mobile device wherein the mobile device communicates with a brand configuration server via a network connection the monitoring application facilitates the download of the queued data to the mobile device from the brand configuration server and the monitoring application monitors the activity on the mobile device during the activation process.

In an embodiment a method for installing brand specific data on a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises monitoring activity on the mobile device during the activation of the mobile device analyzing the monitored activity to determine probable brand specific data building a queue of the probable data for download to the mobile device based on the analysis and downloading the data from a brand configuration server in communication with the mobile device.

In an embodiment a method for activation of a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises wirelessly delivering an activation payload to the mobile device completing an activation process for the mobile device using the activation payload and completing a brand configuration process for the mobile device wherein the brand configuration process comprises monitoring activity on the mobile device during the activation of the mobile device analyzing the monitored activity to determine probable brand specific data building a queue of the probable data for download to the mobile device based on the analysis and downloading the data from a brand configuration server in communication with the mobile device the activation process is completed in the foreground of the device by interacting with the user and the brand configuration process is completed in the background of the device without interacting with the user.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to methods and systems for providing brand specific content for use on a mobile device. After a mobile device is purchased by a user an activation process may be completed where custom settings and information or customization content may be delivered to or accessed on the mobile device. Customization content may include graphics images audio files splash screens opening screens backgrounds and tones. Customization content may also include customer service numbers messaging platforms IP addresses and port numbers client identification and market catalogs. The customization content may be used to complete the activation process on the mobile device where the customization content may be installed downloaded and or otherwise accessed during the activation process. In some cases the activation process may be completed by an application on the mobile device such as an activation application. In some cases the activation process may be initiated when an activation payload is delivered to the mobile device. The activation payload may comprise instructions for completing the activation process.

In some embodiments brand specific content may be downloaded to the mobile device wherein a process for choosing and downloading content may be completed on the mobile device. In some embodiments this process may be completed during the activation process. The mobile device may comprise a monitoring application operable to monitor the activity on the device specifically during the activation process. The mobile device may also comprise an analyzing application operable to analyze the information gathered by the monitoring application. Additionally the analyzing application may have access to past history of the user of the mobile device. The analyzing application may create a queue of brand specific data to be downloaded where the queue may be made based on the analysis of the monitored information and or past history information. The queue may be changeable or flexible wherein continuous monitoring may trigger changes in the queue order or content.

In some cases the mobile device may communicate with a brand configuration server to download the content of the queue created by the analyzing application. The brand configuration server may have a relationship with the mobile device or network server in communication with the mobile device such that downloads may be completed possibly to a trusted area of memory on the mobile device without significant permission checks or restrictions to the downloads.

The mobile communication device may have memory established as a system memory partition and a user memory partition. An operating system of the mobile communication device may restrict write access to the system memory partition and may prevent the contents of the system memory partition being erased during reset operations for example resetting to factory defaults. For example a user may be prevented from writing to the system memory partition and or from causing writing to the system memory partition. By contrast the operating system of the mobile communication device may allow unrestricted write access to the user memory partition. For example a user of the mobile communication device may be permitted by the operating system to write information into the user memory partition at least indirectly by exercising user interface control selections for example entering personal contacts installing third party applications downloading ring tones and the like. During a reset for example during a reset to factory defaults the information in the user memory partition may be deleted by the operating system. The ANDROID operating system used by some mobile communication devices may establish a system memory partition and a user memory partition.

The operating system may further provide write access to a carrier memory partition to privileged users or automated processes. For example an individual providing a carrier memory partition key or password for example an employee or contractor associated with a wireless communication service provider may be allowed by the operating system to write to the carrier memory partition. Alternatively instructions that execute on the mobile communication device may be granted the privilege to write to the carrier memory partition by the operating system based on the instructions providing the key or password. In an embodiment the key or password is unavailable and unknown to a user of the mobile communication device for example the key or password may only be known to the wireless service provider and or carrier. In an embodiment the instructions may invoke an application programming interface API provided by the operating system to write to the carrier memory partition and the API call may entail providing the key or password associated with the carrier memory partition. In some contexts this may be referred to as a carrier memory partition key or a carrier memory partition password. An automated procedure or function executed on the mobile communication device that presents a carrier memory partition key or password for example a script wirelessly transmitted to the mobile communication device may be permitted to write to the carrier memory partition. The carrier memory partition may be used to store branding information. The carrier memory partition further may be used to store other information unrelated to branding and or customization content. For further details about carrier memory partitions see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 763 428 filed Feb. 8 2013 entitled System and Method of Storing Service Brand Packages On a Mobile Device by Brandon C. Annan et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the communication system comprises a mobile device comprising a cellular radio transceiver and a plurality of communication applications . The mobile device may engage in a variety of communication exchanges. The mobile device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer or another electronic device having a macro cellular radio transceiver.

In an embodiment the system comprises a network . The network may be a private network a public network or a combination thereof. The network may promote voice communications and data communications. Portions of the network may provide an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network. The mobile device may couple to the network by a variety of communication paths. The mobile device may communicate with a base transceiver station BTS via a wireless link according to any of a variety of wireless communications protocols including but not limited to code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX global system for mobile communications GSM or other wireless communication protocol. In some embodiments the mobile device may communicate with the base transceiver station BTS via the cellular radio transceiver of the mobile device . The wireless link between the mobile device and the base transceiver station may couple the mobile device to the network . Additionally the base transceiver station may also be known as a cell tower.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide radio communication links to the mobile devices to provide access to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile devices .

The communication applications may comprise a voice communication application a data communication application a web browser application an email application a short message system SMS or texting application a multimedia message system MMS application and other communication applications. The communication applications may be standard communication applications that are delivered by an original equipment manufacturer OEM who assembles the mobile communication device . The communication applications may be stored as firmware or software in a memory of the mobile device . The communication applications may expose application programming interfaces APIs accessible to other applications to provide wireless communication functionality to the other applications.

The communication applications may be any of a variety of applications. One of the communication applications may be a telephone application that receives dialed digits and attempts to originate a voice call for example a voice over IP VoIP call to a called telephone. One of the communication applications may be a web browser application that requests content from the network for example by sending out a hypertext transport protocol HTTP message embedding a universal reference locator URL . One of the communication applications may be a media player that requests streaming or downloading media from the network . Many of the communication applications may depend upon communication service provided by an IMS network to deliver their functionality to an end user of the mobile device . One of the communication applications may comprise a mobile transaction interface where a user may complete a purchase using the application and secure information such as credit card information may be communicated through the application. In some embodiments the communication applications may be stored in a system memory partition of the memory of the mobile device .

In some embodiments the mobile device may comprise a memory system divided into one or more partitions. The partitions may include a system memory partition a carrier memory partition and a user memory partition . In some embodiments content may be stored and or executed in one or more of the memory partitions. In some embodiments the content stored in the memory of the mobile device may be associated with the manufacturer of the device or may be content that is pre loaded onto the device. In some embodiments the term pre loaded may describe content that is loaded to the mobile device before the mobile device is activated by a user. In some embodiments the communication applications may be stored in the system memory partition . Additionally an activation application may be stored and or executed in the system memory partition wherein the activation application may be operable to complete customization or activation processes for the mobile device . In some embodiments one or more of the memory locations may comprise non volatile or persistent memory. In some embodiments the activation process may comprise provisioning the mobile device wherein provisioning may comprise setting up the mobile device for communication and or service with the network . In other words provisioning may enable the mobile device to connect to the network to allow communication to and from the mobile device .

In some embodiments an activation payload may be delivered to the mobile device during the initial set up of the mobile device or during a subsequent set up procedure such as if the mobile device is reset or returned to factory settings. The activation payload may contain information and or instructions for completing the activation process. In some embodiments the activation payload may be delivered in accordance with OMA DM open mobile alliance device management protocol or framework. In other words the activation payload may be delivered as an OMA DM payload. In some embodiments the activation payload may be delivered to the mobile device from a provisioning server in communication with the mobile device via the network .

In some embodiments the activation payload may be stored in the carrier memory partition of the mobile device . In some embodiments at least a portion of the activation payload may be stored in a SIM subscriber identity module card or a SD secure digital card on the mobile device wherein the SIM card or SD card may provide removable memory on the mobile device . The activation payload may communicate with the activation application wherein the activation application may use the data of the activation payload to complete the activation process.

In some embodiments the activation payload may comprise customization content and or file locators to pre loaded customization content wherein the customization content may be delivered over the air or over the wire with the activation payload or may be accessed by the file locators. In some embodiments the content may be stored in the carrier memory partition as customization content . In other embodiments the customization content may be stored in a SIM card or SD card on the mobile device . In some embodiments the customization content stored in the carrier memory partition may persist if the mobile device is returned to factory settings.

In some embodiments the mobile device may comprise a monitoring application operable to monitor activity or events on the mobile device . For example the monitoring application may be activated to monitor activity on the mobile device during the activation process executed by the activation application . Activity may include actions by the user during the activation process such as inputting preferences and or personal information making choices etc. In some embodiments the monitoring application may have a trusted relationship with the device and or the user of the device. For example a user may have the option of opting in to the monitoring service at the beginning of the activation process thus allowing the monitoring application to track and communicate the activity on the mobile device . The monitoring application may store the activity and may also communicate the activity to an analyzer application . In some embodiments the analyzer application may be located on the mobile device .

In some embodiments the monitoring application may be continuously or periodically monitoring the activity. Similarly the communication between the monitoring application and the analyzer application may be continuous and or periodic. In some embodiments the monitoring application may complete at least some analysis of the monitored activity. In some embodiments the monitoring application and the analyzer application may be considered to be a brand configuration system.

The analyzer application may receive the monitored activity and may build a queue of brand specific content to be downloaded to the mobile device . For example brand specific content and or applications may be downloaded to the mobile device and may be stored and or executed by the mobile device . In some embodiments the brand specific content may be stored in the system partition of the mobile device . The analyzer application may build the queue based on the preferences personal information and choices input by the user during the activation process. In some embodiments the analyzer application may actively or continuously modify the queue based on the information received from the monitoring application . In some embodiments the analyzer application may also communicate with a network server to access past history of the user of the mobile device wherein the past history information may be used to build and or modify the queue . The network server may communicate with a database for example that stores user history information.

In some embodiments the mobile device may communicate with a brand configuration server via the network wherein the queue of brand specific content may be downloaded from the brand configuration server . In some embodiments the monitoring of the device and the downloading of the brand specific content may be completed in the background during the activation process. In other words the monitoring application and or analyzer application may function without directly communicating with the user during at least a portion of the activation process. In some embodiments the monitoring application may complete silent background checks to monitor the activity on the mobile device .

In some embodiments the brand specific content downloaded from the brand configuration server may comprise default brand content that is selected based on the mobile device identification and the brand identification for the mobile device as well as brand content chosen based on the monitored activity. In some embodiments the monitoring application may also function as the installer for the brand specific content . In some embodiments delivery and or installation of the brand specific content may be staged such that the delivery or installation does not interfere with the completion of the activation process or other processes happening on the mobile device . For example the content may be queued for download but may not be installed until after the activation process has completed. Additionally the brand specific content may not be presented to a user until the activation process is completed.

In alternative embodiments the analysis of the monitored activity may be performed on the brand configuration server in communication with the mobile device instead of the analyzer application . In this embodiment the monitoring application may communicate the monitored activity to the brand configuration server and the brand configuration server may build the queue of brand specific content to be downloaded to the mobile device . In some embodiments the queue of brand specific content may be downloaded to the mobile device along with default brand specific content obtained from identifying the mobile device and the brand or network operator of the mobile device . In still other embodiments the analyzer application may function on a server separate from the mobile device and or the brand configuration server .

In some embodiments the mobile device may maintain a communication link with the brand configuration server for the at least a portion of the duration of the activation process. To accomplish this the mobile device may communicate with the brand configuration server over a different channel of communication than the one used for the activation process. For example the mobile device may receive and execute the activation payload over a cellular connection to the network while the mobile device may communicate with the brand configuration server via a wireless access point AP . For example the wireless access point may be at a retail store where the mobile device is purchased at the residence or workplace of the user of the mobile device and or a corporate office where the mobile device may be configured by a company before being used by an employee of the company. The wireless access point may provide a wireless communication link to the device using a WiFi communication protocol or another short range radio communication protocol. The wireless access point may be communicatively coupled to the network and may communicatively couple the mobile device to the network .

In some embodiments the brand specific content that is downloaded to the mobile device according to the queue may comprise multiple options. For example a narrowed selection of the content available from the brand configuration server may be downloaded to the mobile device based on the queue . Then at some point during or after the activation process the brand specific content may be presented to the user for implementation on the mobile device . For example a selection of backgrounds opening screens ring tones etc. that have been downloaded to the mobile device based on the queue may be accessed by and or presented to a user who may have the option of using the content or not. In some embodiments a top 5 selection of certain brand specific content or applications may be presented to a user for implementation on the device wherein the top 5 items have already been downloaded to the mobile device so there is no wait time for the user to use the brand specific content or applications .

In some embodiments the brand configuration server may be considered a trusted server wherein the brand configuration server may be authorized to download content to the mobile device . In some embodiments the brand configuration server may be authorized to download to trusted memory on the mobile device . In some embodiments the brand configuration server may be authorized to download content to the mobile device without permission checks restrictions or other limitations that may be used for other installers that communicate with the mobile device .

Turning now to a message sequence or communication pathway between the mobile device provisioning server and or brand configuration server is illustrated. In some embodiments the message sequence may be performed over a network illustrated in and described with reference to . In the embodiment shown in the message sequence may be performed during the initial activation process executed on the mobile device . The mobile device may complete an out of the box boot or cold boot . The mobile device may then communicate an activation service request to the provisioning server . Then an activation payload may be delivered to the mobile device . The mobile device may then write the activation info to the memory of the mobile device and complete a reboot of the mobile device . In some embodiments the activation information from the activation payload may be written to non volatile memory in the mobile device wherein the non volatile memory may comprise the carrier partition of the mobile device .

Then the device activation process may begin in the foreground of the device wherein the activation process may communicate with and accept input from the user of the mobile device . The activation process may comprise for example configuring voicemail transferring or adding contacts choosing preferences and or transferring or adding applications that may have been used on a previous device. At the same time the brand configuration service may begin in the background of the mobile device i.e. without communicating directly with the user . The brand configuration service may comprise communicating a check for brand configuration content to the brand server wherein the check may contain identification information for the mobile device . Then the brand server may acquire the brand configuration package by checking the network operator and device model from the identification information . The brand configuration package may comprise default branding info as well as customized content. Then the brand server may return a descriptor for the brand configuration package and download a URL for accessing the configuration package . The mobile device may then request the brand configuration package from the brand server and then download the brand configuration package . The mobile device may then install the brand configuration content and implement the content such as setting the desktop background for example. Then the activation process conducted by the OEM setup wizard is completed with the device fully configured and a configuration status message is sent to the brand server.

Turning now to a method for activation of a mobile device is described. At block monitoring activity is performed on the mobile device during the activation of the mobile device. In some embodiments monitoring may be completed continuously or periodically. At block the monitored activity is analyzed to determine probable brand specific data. At block a queue of the probable data for download to the mobile device is built based on the analysis. At block the data is downloaded from a brand configuration server in communication with the mobile device. In some embodiments the method may optionally comprise at block changing the queue of probable data based on one or more monitored activity. In some embodiments the method may optionally comprise at block presenting the downloaded brand specific data to the user for implementation on the device. In some embodiments monitoring may be accomplished by a monitoring application on the mobile device and analyzing may be accomplished by an analyzer application on the mobile device. In some embodiments the steps of monitoring analyzing building and downloading may be completed in the background of the device without directly interacting with the user of the device. In some embodiments the downloaded data may comprise multiple options or versions of the data to be presented to the user. In some embodiments the brand specific data comprises one or more of a selection of backgrounds start up graphics and sounds shut down graphics and sounds ring tones icons voice mail contact number customer care number etc.

Turning now to a method for customizing a mobile device is described. At block an activation payload is wirelessly delivered to the mobile device. At block an activation process is completed for the mobile device using the activation payload. At block a brand configuration process is completed for the mobile device wherein the brand configuration process comprises monitoring activity on the mobile device during the activation of the mobile device analyzing the monitored activity to determine probable brand specific data building a queue of the probable data for download to the mobile device based on the analysis and downloading the data from a brand configuration server in communication with the mobile device. In some embodiments the activation process may be completed in the foreground of the device by interacting with the user. In some embodiments the brand configuration process may be completed in the background of the device without interacting with the user. In some embodiments monitoring may be accomplished by a monitoring application on the mobile device and analyzing may be accomplished by an analyzer application on the mobile device. In some embodiments monitoring may be completed continuously or periodically and the method may further comprise at block modifying the queue of probable data based on one or more monitored activity.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

