---

title: N- and C-terminal substituted antagonistic analogs of GH-RH
abstract: There is provided a novel series of synthetic analogs of hGH-RH(1-29)NH(SEQ ID NO: 1) and hGH-RH(1-30)NH. Of particular interest are those carrying PhAc, N-Me-Aib, Dca, Ac-Ada, Fer, Ac-Amc, Me-NH-Sub, PhAc-Ada, Ac-Ada-D-Phe, Ac-Ada-Phe, Dca-Ada, Dca-Amc, Nac-Ada, Ada-Ada, or CH—(CH)—CO-Ada, at the N-Terminus and β-Ala, Amc, Apa, Ada, AEA, AEP, ε-Lys(α-NH), Agm, Lys(Oct) or Ahx, at the C-terminus. These analogs inhibit the release of growth hormone from the pituitary in mammals as well as inhibit the proliferation of human cancers, and inhibit the hyperplastic and benign proliferative disorders of various organs, through a direct effect on the cancerous and non-malignant cells. The stronger inhibitory potencies of the new analogs, as compared to previously described ones, result from replacement of various amino acids.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09260504&OS=09260504&RS=09260504
owner: The United States of America, Represented by the Department of Veterans Affairs
number: 09260504
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 890 626 filed on Sep. 25 2010 which is continuation in part of PCT Application No. US2009 038351 filed on Mar. 26 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 040 418 filed on Mar. 28 2008. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 890 626 also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 305 737 filed on Feb. 18 2010. All of the prior applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made in part with Government support from the Medical Research Service of the Veterans Affairs Department. The Government has certain rights in this application.

A computer readable form of the sequence listing 12 890626 Sequence Listing ST25.txt 743 bytes submitted via EFS WEB and created on Oct. 17 2013 is herein submitted.

The present invention relates to novel Synthetic analogs of hGH RH 1 29 NHand hGH RH 1 30 NHthat inhibit the release of growth hormone from the pituitary in mammals as well as inhibit the proliferation of human cancers and inhibit the hyperplastic and benign proliferative disorders of various organs through a direct effect on the cancerous and non malignant cells and to therapeutic compositions containing these novel peptides.

Growth hormone releasing hormone GH RH is a peptide belonging to the secretin glucagon family of neuroendocrine and gastrointestinal hormones a family that also includes vasoactive intestinal peptide VIP pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide PACAP and others. Human GH RH hGH RH peptide is comprised of 44 amino acid residues. The best known site of production of GH RH is the hypothalamus but it was found that various peripheral organs also synthesize it. hGH RH is also produced sometimes in large quantities by human malignant tissues cancers of diverse origin.

GH RH exerts various physiological and pathophysiological functions. Hypothalamic GH RH is an endocrine releasing hormone that acting through specific GH RH receptors on the pituitary regulates the secretion of pituitary growth hormone GH . The physiological functions of GH RH in extrapituitary tissues are less clear. However there is increasing evidence for the role of GH RH as an autocrine paracrine growth factor in various cancers. Splice variant SV receptors for GH RH different from those expressed in the pituitary have been described in a wide range of human cancers and in some normal peripheral organs. The actions of tumoral autocrine paracrine GH RH could be exerted on these receptors. In addition receptors for VIP and other as yet unidentified receptors of this family could all be targets of local GH RH.

In view of the role of GH RH as an endocrine regulator of GH release novel therapeutic strategies based on the use of agonistic and antagonistic analogs of GH RH have been devised for the treatment of various pathological conditions.

GH is a polypeptide having 191 amino acids that stimulates the production of different growth factors e.g. insulin like growth factor I IGF I and consequently promotes growth of numerous tissues skeleton connective tissue muscle and viscera and stimulates various physiological activities raising the synthesis of nucleic acids and proteins and raising lipolysis but lowering urea secretion . Release of pituitary GH is under the control of releasing and inhibiting factors secreted by the hypothalamus the primary releasing factors being GH RH and ghrelin and the main inhibiting factor being somatostatin.

GH has been implicated in several diseases. One disease in which GH is involved is acromegaly in which excessive levels of GH are present. The abnormally enlarged facial and extremity bones and the cardiovascular symptoms of this disease can be treated by administering a GH RH antagonist. Further diseases involving GH are diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy. The damage to the retina and kidneys respectively in these diseases believed to be due to hypersecretion of GH results in blindness or reduction in kidney function. This damage can be prevented or slowed by administration of an effective GH RH antagonist.

In an effort to intervene in these disease and other conditions some investigators have attempted to control GH and IGF I levels by using analogs of somatostatin an inhibitor of GH release. However somatostatin analogs if administered alone do not suppress GH or IGF I levels to a desired degree. If administered in combination with a GH RH antagonist somatostatin analogs will suppress IGF I levels much better.

However the main applications of GH RH antagonists are in the field of cancer reviewed in Schally A V and Varga J L Trends Endocrinol Metab 10 383 391 1999 Schally A V et al Frontiers Neuroendocrinol 22 248 291 2001 Schally A V and Comaru Schally A M in Kufe D W Pollock R E Weichselbaum R R Bast Jr. R C Gansler T S Holland J F Frei III E Eds. Cancer Medicine 6ed. Hamilton Ontario BC. Decker Inc. 2003 p. 911 926 . GH RH antagonists inhibit the proliferation of malignancies by indirect endocrine mechanisms based on the inhibition of pituitary GH release and resulting in the decrease of serum levels of GH and IGF I as well as by direct effects on the tumor tissue.

GH RH and its tumoral splice variant SV receptors are present in human cancers of the lung prostate breast ovary endometrium stomach intestine pancreas kidney and bone see Halmos G et al Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 10555 10560 2000 Rekasi Z et al Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 10561 10566 2000 Schally A V et al Frontiers Neuroendocrinol 22 248 291 2001 Schally A V and Comaru Schally A M in Kufe D W Pollock R E Weichselbaum R R Bast Jr. R C Gansler T S Holland J F Frei III E Eds. Cancer Medicine 6ed. Hamilton Ontario BC. Decker Inc. 2003 p. 911 926 . Tumoral GH RH has been shown or it is suspected to act as an autocrine growth factor in these malignancies. Antagonistic analogs of GH RH can inhibit the stimulatory activity of GH RH and exert direct antiproliferative effects in vitro on cancer cells and in vivo on tumors. Direct antiproliferative effects of GH RH antagonists are exerted on tumoral receptors binding sites . In addition to the specific tumoral SV receptors for GH RH receptors for VIP and other as yet unidentified receptors of this family are targets of GH RH antagonists.

In addition to endocrine inhibitory effects on serum GH and IGF I GH RH antagonists have been found to reduce the autocrine and paracrine production of several tumor growth factors and or downregulate their receptors. These growth factors include IGF I IGF II GH vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF and fibroblast growth factor FGF Thus a disruption of the autocrine paracrine stimulatory loops based on these growth factors contributes to the efficacy of GH RH antagonists as antitumor agents.

IGF I and IGF II are autocrine paracrine growth factors with potent mitogenic effects on various cancers. IGF I is also an endocrine growth factor and elevated levels of serum IGF I are considered an epidemiological risk factor for the development of prostate cancer lung cancer and colorectal cancer. The involvement of IGF I somatomedin C in breast cancer prostate cancer colon cancer bone tumors and other malignancies is well established. Nevertheless autocrine paracrine control of proliferation by IGF II is also a major factor in many tumors. IGF I and IGF II exert their proliferative and anti apoptotic effects through the common IGF I receptor. The receptors for IGF I are present in primary human breast cancers prostate cancers lung cancers colon cancers brain tumors pancreatic cancers and in renal cell carcinomas. In several experimental cancers such as those of the bone lung prostate kidney breast ovary intestine pancreas and brain treatment with GH RH antagonists produces a reduction in IGF I and or IGF II levels concomitant to inhibition of tumor growth reviewed in Schally A V and Varga J L Trends Endocrinol Metab 10 383 391 1999 Schally A V et al Frontiers Neuroendocrinol 22 248 291 2001 Schally A V and Comaru Schally A M in Kufe D W Pollock R E Weichselbaum R R Bast Jr. R C Gansler T S Holland J F Frei III E Eds. Cancer Medicine 6ed. Hamilton Ontario BC. Decker Inc. 2003 p. 911 926 . In some cases the expression of IGF I receptors was also decreased by GH RH antagonists. Thus the disruption of endocrine and autocrine paracrine stimulatory loops dependent on IGF I and IGF II contributes to the antitumor effect of GH RH antagonists.

In MXT breast cancer model treatment with GH RH antagonists inhibited tumor growth reduced the mRNA level for GH and the concentration of GH peptide in tumors and inhibited the mRNA expression for GH receptors Szepeshazi K et al Endocrinology 142 4371 4378 2001 . GH was shown to act as a growth factor for MXT murine mammary carcinoma cells MCF 7 human breast cancer cells and other tumor cell lines. Thus the inhibitory activity of GH RH antagonists on local and serum GH levels contributes to their antitumor effect.

GH RH antagonists have been shown to inhibit the mRNA levels and protein concentrations of VEGF in human androgen sensitive and androgen independent prostate cancer models Letsch M et al Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100 1250 1255 2003 Plonowski A et al Prostate 52 173 182 2002 and this phenomenon contributes to their antitumor effect since VEGF plays an important stimulatory role in the neovascularization and growth of various tumors. Moreover it was found that a GH RH antagonist inhibited the VEGF secretion and proliferation of normal murine endothelial cells apparently through a direct effect on these cells in vitro Siejka A et al Life Sci 72 2473 2479 2003 .

Scientists have investigated various modifications of GH RH to elucidate the relationship of the structure of GH RH to its activity on the pituitary receptors in an effort to provide synthetic congeners with improved agonistic or antagonistic properties. Thus it was early established that GH RH fragment comprising residues 1 to 29 or GH RH 1 29 is the minimum sequence necessary for biological activity on the pituitary. This fragment retains 50 or more of the potency of native GH RH. Subsequently many synthetic analogs of GH RH based on the structure of hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 peptide were prepared. hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 has the following amino acid sequence 

A considerable number of patents and articles in the open literature disclose analogs of GH RH which either act as agonists of GH RH i.e. act to stimulate the release of GH or as antagonists of GH RH i.e. act to inhibit the release of GH on the pituitary. Most of these peptides are derived from the GH RH 1 29 peptide sequence with specific structural modifications which account for their enhanced agonistic or antagonistic properties on the pituitary receptors. However apart from a few exceptions it is not known how these analogs would behave on cancer cells that express GH RH receptors different from those found in the pituitary. Only a few published scientific studies tried to elucidate the structure activity relationships and characterize the direct antagonistic or agonistic effects of GH RH analogs on cancer cells and tumors see Rekasi Z et al Endocrinology 141 2120 2128 2000 Halmos G et al Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 10555 10560 2000 Rekasi Z et al Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 10561 10566 2000 Kiaris H et al Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99 196 200 2002 and no issued patents have dealt with this issue so far. Consequently very little is known about the structural features in GH RH analogs required for a direct antagonistic action on tumor cells.

The first described GH RH antagonist Ac Tyr D Arg hGH RH 1 29 NH which is generally termed as the standard antagonist in the literature was found to prevent the activation of rat anterior pituitary adenylate cyclase by hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 . The same peptide blocked the action of GH RH on its receptors in the pituitary and hypothalamus and inhibited the pulsatile growth hormone secretion. The standard antagonist was also evaluated clinically Ocampo Lim B et al J Clin Endocrinol Metab 81 4396 4399 1996 Jaffe C A et al J Clin Endocrinol Metab 82 634 637 1997 . Large doses of this antagonist 400 g kg eliminated nocturnal GH secretion in normal subjects and inhibited the response to GH RH. The standard GH RH antagonist also reduced GH levels in a patient with acromegaly. However for clinical use much more potent antagonists of GH RH are required.

The inventions mentioned below disclose GH RH analogs with antagonistic or agonistic properties on the pituitary receptors for GH RH. However it was not reported and not investigated whether these analogs could exert direct effects on tumor cells. U.S. Pat. No. 4 659 693 discloses GH RH antagonistic analogs which contain certain N N dialkyl omega guanidino alpha amino acyl residues in position 2 of the GH RH 1 29 sequence. Published application WO 91 16923 reviews earlier attempts to alter the secondary structure of hGH RH by modifying its amino acid sequence. These earlier attempts include replacing Tyr Ala Aspor Asnwith their D isomers replacing Asnwith L or D Ser D Arg Asn Thr Gln or D Lys replacing Serwith Ala to enhance amphiphilicity of the region and replacing Glywith Ala or Aib. When Rin the analogs is D Arg and R R and Rare substituted as indicated above antagonistic activity is said to result. These antagonistic peptides are said to be suitable for administration as pharmaceutical compositions to treat conditions associated with excessive levels of GH e.g. acromegaly.

The antagonistic activity of the hGH RH analogue Ser psi CH NH Tyr hGH RH 1 29 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 084 555 was said to result from the pseudopeptide bond i.e. a peptide bond reduced to a CH NH linkage between the Rand Rresidues. However the antagonistic properties of Ser psi CH NH Tyr hGH RH 1 29 were said to be inferior to the standard antagonist Ac Tyr D Arg hGH RH 1 29 NH. U.S. Pat. No. 5 550 212 U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 489 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 057 422 disclose analogs of hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 said to have enhanced antagonistic properties and prolonged duration of action regarding the inhibition of GH RH evoked GH release. These properties are believed to result from replacement of various amino acids and acylation with aromatic or nonpolar acids at the N terminus of GH RH 1 29 NH. The tumor inhibitory properties of antagonists featured in U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 489 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 057 422 have been demonstrated by using nude mice bearing xenografts of experimental human cancer models. It is noted that in U.S. Pat. No. 5 550 212 and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 489 Ris always Ser while Rand Rcan be either Arg D Arg or Cit. In the case of U.S. Pat. No. 6 057 422 Rcan be either Arg Har Lys Orn D Arg D Har D Lys D Orn Cit Nle Tyr Me Ser Ala or Aib while Rand Rare always Arg.

There is provided a novel series of synthetic analogs of hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 and hGH RH 1 30 NH. These analogs inhibit the release of growth hormone from the pituitary in mammals as well as inhibit the proliferation of human cancers and inhibit the hyperplastic and benign proliferative disorders of various organs through a direct effect on the cancerous and non malignant cells. The stronger inhibitory potencies of the new analogs as compared to previously described ones results from replacement of various amino acids.

The invention principally relates to peptides comprising the formulae A peptide selected from the group having the formulae 

The invention principally relates to peptides comprising the formulae A peptide selected from the group having the formulae 

Ais PhAc Nac Oct N Me Aib Dca Ac Ada Fer Ac Amc Me NH Sub PhAc Ada Ac Ada D Phe Ac Ada Phe Dca Ada Dca Amc Nac Ada Ada Ada or CH CH CO Ada 

Ais absent Amc Apa Ada AEA or Agm provided that where Ais PhAc Nac or Oct Ais not absent and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Most suitably peptides listed in the immediately foregoing paragraph wherein Ais Dca Ac Ada Ac Amc PhAc Ada Dca Ada Nac Oct or CH CH CO Ada and Ais Agm Ada or absent.

It is noted that the amino acid residues from 30 through 44 of the native GH RH molecule do not appear to be essential to activity nor does their identity appear to be critical. Therefore it appears that the addition of some or all of these further amino acid residues to the C terminus of the hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 and hGH RH 1 30 NHanalogs of the present invention will not affect the efficacy of these analogs as GH RH antagonists.

If some or all of these amino acids were added to the C terminus of the hGH RH 1 29 NH SEQ ID NO 1 analogs the added amino acid residues could be the same as residues 30 through 44 in the native hGH RH sequence or reasonable equivalents.

The synthetic peptides are synthesized by a suitable method such as by exclusive solid phase techniques by partial solid phase techniques by fragment condensation or by classical solution phase synthesis. When the analogs of this invention are synthesized by solid phase method the C terminus residue here Aor A is appropriately linked anchored to an inert solid support resin while bearing protecting groups for its alpha or omega amino group and where appropriate for its side chain functional group . After completion of this step the alpha or omega amino protecting group is removed from the anchored amino acid residue and the next amino acid residue Aor Arespectively is added having its alpha amino group as well as any appropriate side chain functional group suitably protected and so forth. The N terminus protecting groups are removed after each residue is added but the side chain protecting groups are not yet removed. After all the desired amino acids have been linked in the proper sequence the peptide is cleaved from the support and freed from all side chain protecting group s under conditions that are minimally destructive towards residues in the sequence. This is be followed by a careful purification and scrupulous characterization of the synthetic product so as to ensure that the desired structure is indeed the one obtained.

It is particularly preferred to protect the alpha amino function or the omega amino function where applicable of the amino acids during the coupling step with an acid or base sensitive protecting group. Such protecting groups should have the properties of being stable in the conditions of peptide linkage formation while being readily removable without destruction of the growing peptide chain and without racemization of any of the chiral centers contained therein. Suitable alpha and omega amino protecting groups are Boc and Fmoc.

The hGH RH antagonist peptides or salts of these peptides may be formulated in pharmaceutical dosage forms containing effective amounts thereof and administered to humans or animals for therapeutic or diagnostic purposes. The peptides may be used to suppress GH levels and to treat conditions associated with excessive levels of GH e.g. diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy and acromegaly. Also provided are methods for treating these diseases by administration of a composition of the invention to an individual needing such treatment. The main uses of GH RH antagonists are however in the field of cancer for example human cancers of the lung prostate breast ovary endometrium stomach colon pancreas kidney bone and brain where the receptors for GH RH IGF I IGF II or GH are present and that depend on stimulation by growth factors such as GH RH IGF I IGF II GH VEGF or FGF.

The nomenclature used to define the peptides is that specified by the IUPAC IUB Commission on Biochemical Nomenclature wherein in accordance with conventional representation the amino group at the N terminus appears to the left and the carboxyl group at the C terminus appears to the right. The term natural amino acid as used herein means one of the common naturally occurring L amino acids found in naturally occurring proteins Gly Ala Val Leu Ile Ser Thr Lys Arg Asp Asn Glu Gln Cys Met Phe Tyr Pro Trp and His. When the natural amino acid residue has isomeric forms it is the L form of the amino acid that is represented herein unless otherwise expressly indicated.

Non coded amino acids or amino acid analogues are also incorporated into the GH RH antagonists. Non coded amino acids are those amino acids which are not among the approximately 20 natural amino acids found in naturally occurring proteins. When these non coded amino acids or amino acid analogues have isomeric forms it is the L form of the amino acid that is represented unless otherwise expressly indicated.

The hGH RH analogs of the present invention were designed to increase the antagonistic effects at the pituitary level and or at the tumoral level.

The peptides are synthesized by suitable methods such as by exclusive solid phase techniques by partial solid phase techniques by fragment condensation or by classical solution phase synthesis. For example the techniques of exclusive solid phase synthesis are set forth in the textbook Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis J. M. Stewart and J. D. Young Pierce Chem. Company Rockford Ill. 1984 2nd. ed. and M. Bodanszky Principles of Peptide Synthesis Springer Verlag 1984. The hGH RH antagonist peptides are preferably prepared using solid phase synthesis such as that generally described by Merrifield J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85 p. 2149 1963 although other equivalent chemical syntheses known in the art can also be used as previously mentioned.

The synthesis is carried out with amino acids that are protected at their alpha amino group. Urethane type protecting groups Boc or Fmoc are preferably used for the protection of the alpha amino group. In certain cases protected omega amino acids are also used during the synthesis. Boc and Fmoc protecting groups are also appropriate for the protection of omega amino groups.

In solid phase synthesis the N alpha protected or N omega protected amino acid moiety which forms the aminoacyl group of the final peptide at the C terminus is attached to a polymeric resin support via a chemical link. After completion of the coupling reaction the alpha or omega amino protecting group is selectively removed to allow subsequent coupling reactions to take place at the amino terminus preferably with 50 TFA in DCM when the N alpha N omega protecting group is Boc or by 20 piperidine in DMF when the N alpha N omega protecting group is Fmoc. The remaining amino acids with similarly Boc or Fmoc protected alpha or omega amino groups are coupled stepwise to the free amino group of the preceding amino acid on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence. Because the amino acid residues are coupled to the alpha or omega amino group of the C terminus residue growth of the synthetic hGH RH analogue peptides begins at the C terminus and progresses toward the N terminus. When the desired sequence has been obtained the peptide is acylated at the N terminus and it is removed from the support polymer.

Each protected amino acid is used in excess 2.5 or 3 equivalents and the coupling reactions are usually carried out in DCM DMF or mixtures thereof. The extent of completion of the coupling reaction is monitored at each stage by the ninhydrin reaction. In cases where incomplete coupling is determined the coupling procedure is repeated or a capping by acetylation of unreacted amino groups is carried out before removal of the alpha or omega amino protecting group prior to the coupling of the next amino acid.

After completion of the synthesis the cleavage of the peptide from the resin can be effected using procedures well known in peptide chemistry.

The hGH RH antagonist peptides may be synthesized on a variety of support polymers i.e. MBHA Merrifield PAM Rink amide or Wang resins. The peptides can also be synthesized on aminomethyl MBHA or other resins that have been previously derivatized with suitable linkers. Examples of such linkers are the base labile 4 hydroxymethyl benzoic acid HMBA linker for the attachment of C terminal carboxyl groups or the acid labile para sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl SPA linker which permits the attachment of agmatine through its guanidino group.

When peptides with an amidated C terminus are synthesized by using Boc strategy the preferred resin is MBHA. Attachment of the C terminal amino acid to this resin can be accomplished by the standard DIC mediated coupling method described in Table I.

In order to prepare peptides with a C terminal ethylamide NHEt modification the Merrifield resin or HMBA MBHA resin can be used in conjunction with the Boc strategy. Loading of the C terminal amino acid onto the Merrifield resin is done by coupling mediated by potassium fluoride KF or cesium salt at elevated temperature.

For the synthesis of peptides having Agm at the C terminus it is preferred that the support phase is MBHA resin or an aminomethyl resin. The guanidino group of Boc Agm is joined to the support polymer through a stable but readily cleavable linker such as the para sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl SPA moiety. The alpha amino Boc protected Agm is reacted with the chlorosulfonyl phenoxyacetic acid CI SO CH O CH COOH to form Boc Agm SO CH O CH COOH. This compound is then coupled to the support polymer e.g. to MBHA resin using DIC or HBTU HOBt DIEA as activating reagent to yield Boc Agm SPA MBHA.

Bifunctional amino acids i.e. those not having side chain functional groups are mostly used in the form of their N alpha Boc or Fmoc derivatives for synthesis. Bifunctional omega amino acids are also typically used in the form of their N omega Boc or Fmoc derivatives. Thus Boc Gly OH or Fmoc Gly OH is typically used for incorporating the Gly residue. The naturally occurring bifunctional amino acids are Gly Ala Val Leu Ile Phe and Pro and some well known non coded bifunctional amino acids used in this invention are Abu Aib and Nle.

Some of the amino acid residues of the peptides have side chain functional groups which are reactive with reagents used in coupling or deprotection. When such side chain groups are present suitable protecting groups are joined to these functional groups to prevent undesirable chemical reactions occurring during the reactions used to form the peptides. The following general rules are followed in selecting a particular side chain protecting group a the protecting group preferably retains its protecting properties and is not split off under coupling conditions b the protecting group should be stable under conditions for removing the alpha amino protecting group at each step of the synthesis c the side chain protecting group must be removable upon the completion of the synthesis of the desired amino acid sequence under reaction conditions that will not undesirably alter the peptide chain.

When Boc amino acids are used in the synthesis the reactive side chain functional groups can be protected as follows Tos or nitro NO for Arg and Har cHx or Fm for Asp and Glu Bom for His 2CIZ or Fmoc for Lys and Orn Bzl for Ser and Thr For Trp and 2BrZ for Tyr. The side chains of Asn and Gln are unprotected. In the case of Fmoc synthesis the reactive side chain functional groups can be protected by other appropriate protective groups as follows 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl dihydrobenzofurane 5 sulfonyl Pbf or bis Boc for Arg and Har tert butyl tBu for Asp and Glu no protective group or trityl Trt protection for Asn and Gln Trt for His Boc or 4 methoxytrityl Mmt for Lys and Orn tBu or Trt for Ser and Thr Boc for Trp and tBu or 2 chlorotrityl 2CITrt for Tyr.

In addition to the widely known coded and non coded amino acids mentioned above some of the peptides of this application contain less common non coded amino acids such as homoarginine Har Ornithine Orn O methyl tyrosine Tyr Me pentafluoro phenylalanine Phe F para amidino phenylalanine Amp para guanidino phenylalanine Gup cyclohexylalanine Cha 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronorharman 3 carboxylic acid Tpi 2 naphthyl alanine 2 Nal 3 3 diphenyl alanine Dip para amino phenylalanine Phe pNH para nitro phenylalanine Phe pNO 3 pyridyl alanine 3 Pal O ethyl tyrosine Tyr Et and para benzoyl phenylalanine Bpa . These amino acid residues are incorporated into the peptides by coupling the suitable protected amino acid derivatives. A non exclusive list of such protected amino acid derivatives that can be used is as follows Boc Amp Alloc OH Boc Amp OH Fmoc Amp Alloc OH Fmoc Amp OH Boc Gup Tos OH Boc Gup OH Fmoc Gup Boc OH Fmoc Gup OH Boc Cha OH Boc Tpi OH Boc 2 Nal OH Boc Dip OH Boc Phe pNH Z OH Boc Phe pNO OH Boc 3 Pal OH Boc Tyr Et OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Phe F OH and Boc Bpa OH. The protected derivatives of noncoded amino acids mentioned above are commonly available from several commercial suppliers including Bachem King of Prussia Pa. Peptides International Louisville Ky. Novabiochem San Diego Calif. Advanced ChemTech Louisville Ky. and RSP Amino Acid Analogues DBA Worcester Mass. and AnaSpec San Jose Calif. .

Utilizing the above mentioned support polymers and after loading of the C terminal amino acid or Agm residue the peptide itself may suitably be built up by solid phase synthesis in the conventional manner. Each protected amino acid is coupled in about a three fold molar excess with respect to resin bound free amino residues and the coupling may be carried out in a medium such as DMF DCM 1 1 or in DMF or DCM alone. The selection of an appropriate coupling reagent is within the skill of the art. Particularly suitable as coupling reagents are N N diisopropyl carbodiimide DIC or HBTU combined with HOBt in the presence of DIEA. The success of the coupling reaction at each stage of the synthesis is preferably monitored by the ninhydrin reaction. In cases where incomplete coupling occurs either the coupling procedure is repeated or the resin bound unreacted amino residues are acetylated using a capping reagent before removal of the alpha or omega amino protecting group. Suitable capping reagents are 1 acetylimidazole and AcO pyridine.

Final acylation of the N terminus of the peptide with monocarboxylic acids is done in the same way as the previous couplings with the difference that the appropriate carboxylic acid is used instead of an amino acid. When dicarboxylic acids are attached to the N terminus and it is desired that only one COOH group reacts with the amino terminus of the peptide that is monoamides of these acids are prepared the anhydrides of the respective dicarboxylic acids can be used for coupling. The cyclic anhydrides of many dicarboxylic acids are commercially available in other cases the pre formed anhydrides of these acids are prepared by treatment with DIC and used for coupling.

When the synthesis is complete the peptide is cleaved from the support phase and its side chain protecting groups are removed.

In cases where peptides with an amidated C terminus CONH or with a C terminal carboxyl group COOH are prepared by Boc strategy on an MBHA Merrifield or PAM resin the removal of the peptide from the resin is performed by treatment with a reagent such as liquid hydrogen fluoride HF . This is also the case for peptides synthesized on the Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin. In some instances the liquid HF also cleaves all the remaining side chain protecting groups. However if side chain protecting groups resistant to HF treatment are present on the peptide additional cleavage steps should be performed in order to remove these protecting groups. Thus Fm and Fmoc protecting groups are removed by treatment with 20 piperidine in DMF while All and Alloc groups are removed by treatment with Pd PPh catalyst and nucleophilic scavengers prior to or after the HF treatment.

Suitably the dried and protected peptide resin is treated with a mixture consisting of 1.0 ml m cresol and 10 ml anhydrous hydrogen fluoride per gram of peptide resin for 60 120 min at 0 C. to cleave the peptide from the resin as well as to remove the HF labile side chain protecting groups. After the removal of the hydrogen fluoride under a stream of nitrogen and vacuum the free peptides are precipitated with ether filtered washed with ether and ethyl acetate extracted with 50 acetic acid and lyophilized.

In cases where peptides with an ethylamide NHEt C terminus are prepared by Boc strategy on the Merrifield or HMBA MBHA resin the protected peptides are first cleaved from the resin by ethylamine EtNH mediated aminolysis. Suitably liquid EtNHis transferred into a cooled heavy walled glass flask that contains the dried and protected peptide resin. The quantity of liquid EtNHshould be sufficient to cover the peptide resin. The flask is stoppered and shaken with the liquid EtNHfor 3.5 hours at room temperature in order to allow for the reaction to take place. After this the flask is cooled in a dry ice bath opened and the liquid EtNHis filtered off the solid residue that contains a mixture of resin and cleaved peptide the peptide still having the protecting groups attached. The solid residue is dried and subjected to HF treatment as described above in order to remove the side chain protecting groups of the peptide.

The purification of the crude peptides can be effected using procedures well known in peptide chemistry. For example purification may be performed on a MacRabbit HPLC system Rainin Instrument Co. Inc. Woburn Mass. with a Knauer UV Photometer and a Kipp and Zonen BD40 Recorder using a Vydac 218TP510 reversed phase column 10 250 mm packed with C18 silica gel 300 pore size 5 u.m particle size The Separations Group Inc. Hesperia Calif. . The column is eluted with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN in a linear gradient mode e.g. 30 55 B in 120 min . The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph and pooled to give maximum purity. Analytical HPLC is carried out on a Vydac 218TP52 reversed phase column 2 250 mm C18 300 5 m using isocratic elution with a solvent system consisting of A and B defined above. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The peptides are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

The peptides of the invention may be administered in the form of pharmaceutically acceptable nontoxic salts such as acid addition salts. Illustrative of such acid addition salts are hydrochloride hydrobromide sulphate phosphate fumarate gluconate tannate maleate acetate trifluoroacetate citrate benzoate succinate alginate pamoate malate ascorbate tartarate and the like. Particularly preferred antagonists are salts of low solubility e.g. pamoate salts and the like. These exhibit long duration of activity.

The compounds of the present invention are suitably administered to subject humans or animals subcutaneously s.c. intramuscularly i.m. or intravenously i.v intranasally or by pulmonary inhalation by transdermal delivery or in a depot form e.g. microcapsules microgranules or cylindrical rod like implants formulated from a biodegradable suitable polymer such as D L lactide coglycolide the former two depot modes being preferred. Other equivalent modes of administration are also within the scope of this invention i.e. continuous drip cutaneous patches depot injections infusion pump and time release modes such as microcapsules and the like. Administration is in any physiologically acceptable injectable carrier physiological saline being acceptable though other carriers known to the art may also be used.

The peptides are preferably administered parenterally intramuscularly subcutaneously or intravenously with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as isotonic saline. Alternatively the peptides may be administered as an intranasal spray with an appropriate carrier or by pulmonary inhalation. One suitable route of administration is a depot form formulated from a biodegradable suitable polymer e.g. poly D L lactide coglycolide as microcapsules microgranules or cylindrical implants containing dispersed antagonistic compounds.

The amount of peptide needed depends on the type of pharmaceutical composition and on the mode of administration. In cases where human subjects receive solutions of GH RH antagonists administered by i.m. or s.c. injection or in the form of intranasal spray or pulmonary inhalation the typical doses are between 2 20 mg day patient given once a day or divided into 2 4 administrations day. When the GH RH antagonists are administered intravenously to human patients typical doses are in the range of 8 80 g kg of body weight day divided into 1 4 bolus injections day or given as a continuous infusion. When depot preparations of the GH RH antagonists are used e.g. by i.m. injection of pamoate salts or other salts of low solubility or by i.m. or s.c. administration of microcapsules microgranules or implants containing the antagonistic compounds dispersed in a biodegradable polymer the typical doses are between 1 10 mg antagonist day patient.

The most important therapeutic applications of GH RH antagonists are expected to be in the field of oncology and endocrinology. Some of the GH RH antagonists act predominantly at the pituitary level and have stronger endocrine effects inhibiting the GH RH evoked GH release and ultimately decreasing the serum levels of GH and IGF 1. Other GH RH antagonists act predominantly at the tumor level by blocking the tumoral receptors for GH RH reducing the production of various autocrine paracrine tumor growth factors such as IGF 1 IGF 11 GH VEGF FGF and or downregulating their receptors IGF 1 receptors GH receptors VEGF receptors FGF receptors EGF receptors EGFR human epidermal growth factor receptors HER2 HER3 and HER4 in addition to inhibiting the intracellular signaling pathways involved in the proliferation and survival of the cancer cells and thus exert stronger inhibitory effects on tumor growth. These antagonists can also be used as carrier systems linked to radionuclides for tumor localization or therapy or conjugated to chemotherapeutic agents or toxins. Such hybrid compounds can be actively targeted to cancer for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. Yet other GH RH antagonists act by multiple mechanisms of action that is by endocrine mechanisms and by direct effects on tumors at the same time. Thus the main therapeutic indications of various GH RH antagonists differ based on their preferential mechanism of action.

Analogs of GH RH with antagonistic action on the pituitary can be used in situations where it is beneficial to suppress serum levels of GH and IGF 11. Thus they are indicated for the therapy of endocrine disorders characterized by excessive production of GH and IGF 1 as well as for the treatment of cancers that express receptors for IGF 1 IGF 11 or GH and the proliferation of which is stimulated by these growth factors.

Somatostatin analogs and GH antagonists are also available for the treatment of endocrine conditions caused by GH and IGF 1. However GH RH antagonists offer unique therapeutical benefits unobtainable by the use of somatostatin analogs and GH antagonists.

These benefits are due to the multiple mechanisms of action of GH RH antagonists namely that they exert GH and IGF 1 independent direct effects on tumors and other target sites in addition to inhibiting the endocrine axis for GH and IGF 1. GH RH antagonists may be given alone or together with somatostatin analogs a combination which more completely suppresses GH and IGF 1 levels. An undesired side effect of GH antagonists which can be avoided by the administration of GH RH antagonists is the elevation of serum GH levels through a feed back mechanism.

One disease caused by excess growth hormone is acromegaly which is manifested in an abnormal enlargement of the bones of the face and extremities. GH RH antagonists could alleviate the clinical manifestations of acromegaly e.g. the enlargement of facial and extremity bones the enlargement of heart and other structural and functional abnormalities of the cardiovascular system. The GH RH antagonists may also be used to treat diabetic retinopathy the main cause of blindness in diabetics and diabetic nephropathy in which damage to the eye and kidney respectively is thought to be due to GH. Diabetic patients can also benefit from the increased insulin sensitivity produced by GH RH antagonists an effect linked to the ability of these compounds to reduce the GH and IGF 1 levels. In addition since they inhibit GH release GH RH antagonists can be used to slow down the progression of muscular dystrophy.

Drugs with anti growth factor properties such as GH RH antagonists can also be of benefit in controlling or slowing down the progression of some clinicopathologic processes in conditions such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis systemic sclerosis and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy where the present medical therapies have relatively little to offer. In addition no drug therapy has been shown to be effective in decreasing the incidence of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty PTCA and new approaches must be devised including the use of GH RH antagonists. Some gynecologic conditions such as myoma endometriosis and polycystic ovary syndrome can also be treated with GH RH antagonists in combination with luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LH RH agonists or antagonists. GH RH antagonists are also available for treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH and hyperplastic and benign proliferative disorders of other normal organs in which the GH RH receptors are present. In addition GH RH antagonists can be of benefit for the treatment of autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis.

However the main applications of GH RH antagonists are in the field of cancer. GH RH antagonists especially those with strong direct effects at the tumor level are indicated for the inhibition of growth of primary tumors and for the suppression of their metastatic spread. Since the antiproliferative effects of GH RH antagonists are exerted by several mechanisms these compounds are available for the treatment of a large variety of cancers such as those that depend on autocrine paracrine and endocrine stimulation by GH RH IGF 1 IGF 11 GH VEGF and FGF and cancers dependent on growth factor receptors such as GH RH receptors IGF 1 receptors GH receptors VEGF receptors FGF receptors and receptors of the EGF receptor HER family EGF receptors or HER1 HER2 HER3 and HER4 . GH RH antagonists also inhibit the phosphorylation of MAP kinases ERK c jun kinase JNK and the phosphorylation of AKT and thus are available for the treatment of cancers dependent on the MEK ERK and PI3K AKT mTOR signaling pathways. In addition GH RH antagonists decrease the levels of cyclo oxygenase 2 COX2 and mutant Ras proteins. Thus GH RH antagonists are also available for the treatment of cancers dependent on the mentioned proliferative and anti apoptotic survival signaling pathways signaling molecules and oncoproteins. For maximum therapeutic benefits GH RH antagonists are available for use as single therapeutic agents or in combination therapeutic regimens with chemotherapeutic and cytotoxic agents targeted therapeutic agents and radiotherapy.

GH RH antagonists are available for the treatment of tumors that express GH RH receptors and use GH RH as an autocrine paracrine growth factor. Such malignancies include but are not limited to cancers of the lung prostate breast ovary endometrium esophagus stomach intestine pancreas kidney urinary bladder bone liver as well as glioblastomas pheochromocytomas melanomas and lymphomas. By blocking the tumoral receptors for GH RH these antagonists prevent the stimulatory action of GH RH resulting in inhibition of tumor growth.

One advantage of GH RH antagonists over somatostatin analogs is based on the fact that GH RH antagonists may be utilized for suppression of tumors which do not have somatostatin receptors but express the tumoral receptors for GH RH for example human osteogenic sarcomas.

Malignancies that express the IGF 1 receptors and depend on IGF 1 and or IGF 11 as growth factors are available for therapy with GH RH antagonists. These malignancies include among others lung cancers prostatic breast ovarian endometrial gastric colorectal pancreatic renal and hepatic cancers sarcomas and brain tumors. The ability of GH RH antagonists to decrease serum IGF 1 levels inhibit the autocrine paracrine production of IGF 1 and or IGF 11 in the tumor tissue and downregulate the expression level of IGF 1 receptor is beneficial for cancer therapy.

Breast cancers and other types of cancer that depend on GH as a growth factor can be treated with GH RH antagonists. The ability of GH RH antagonists to reduce serum GH levels inhibit the autocrine production of GH and downregulate GH receptor expression beneficiate the treatment of certain breast cancers and other types of tumors as well.

GH RH antagonists are available as inhibitors of angiogenesis in view of their inhibitory activity on the synthesis of VEGF bFGF and their receptors receptors for VEGF and bFGF by tumor tissues and normal endothelial cells and considering their antiproliferative effect on endothelial cells. Thus GH RH antagonists could be beneficial for the treatment of those tumors that strongly depend on VEGF bFGF and neoangiogenesis.

The present invention is described in connection with the following examples which are set forth for the purposes of illustration only. In the examples optically active protected amino acids in the L configuration are used except where specifically noted.

The following Examples set forth suitable methods of synthesizing the novel GH RH antagonists by the solid phase technique.

 CH CH CO Ada Tyri D Arg2 Asp Ala Ile Cpa Thr Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys Var Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala His Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle D Arg Har NH Peptide 11125 

The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. Briefly para methylbenzhydrylamine MBHA resin Bachem King of Prussia Pa. 720 mg 0.50 mmol is neutralized with 5 DIEA in DCM and washed according to the protocol described in Table I. The solution of Boc Har NO OH 500 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF DCM 1 1 is shaken with the neutralized resin and DIC 235 l 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After the completion of the coupling reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table I are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Bachem Novabiochem and Peptides International are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 l 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters. After removal of the N Boc protecting group from Ada the peptide is acylated overnight with dodecanoic acid CH CH COOH 601 mg 3 mmol using DIC 235 l 1.5 mmol as a coupling agent.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 250 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 ml m cresol and 5 ml hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 135 mg crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with C18 silica gel 120 pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. and linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN. For purification by semipreparative HPLC 135 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on a Beckman Ultraprep ODS column 21.2 mm 15 cm packed with C18 silica gel 300 pore size 10 M particle size . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 15.5 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

In accordance with the above procedure Peptide 1109 Peptide 1111 Peptide 11113 Peptide 11115 Peptide 11117 Peptide 11107 Peptide 11109 Peptide 11111 Peptide 11113 Peptide 11115 Peptide 11117 Peptide 11119 Peptide 11121 Peptide 11123 Peptide 11207 Peptide 11209 Peptide 11211 Peptide 11213 Peptide 11215 Peptide 11307 Peptide 11309 Peptide 11315 Peptide 11317 Peptide 11319 Peptide 11321 Peptide 11407 Peptide 11408 Peptide 11409 Peptide 11411 Peptide 11413 Peptide 11417 Peptide 11419 Peptide 11421 Peptide 11423 Peptide 11425 Peptide 11427 Peptide 11429 Peptide 11431 Peptide 11433 Peptide 11435 Peptide 11437 Peptide 11439 Peptide 11441 Peptide 11443 Peptide 11445 Peptide 11447 Peptide 11449 Peptide 11451 Peptide 11453 Peptide 11455 Peptide 11457 Peptide 11459 Peptide 11461 Peptide 11463 Peptide 11465 Peptide 11467 Peptide 11469 Peptide 11471 Peptide 11473 Peptide 11475 Peptide 11477 Peptide 11479 Peptide 11481 Peptide 11483 Peptide 11485 Peptide 11487 Peptide 11491 Peptide 11497 Peptide 11499 Peptide 11501 Peptide 11503 Peptide 11513 Peptide 11515 Peptide 11521 Peptide 11523 Peptide 11525 Peptide 11601 Peptide 11602 Peptide 11603 Peptide 11610 Peptide 11611 Peptide 11612 Peptide 11620 Peptide 11621 Peptide 11630 Peptide 11701 Peptide 11702 Peptide 11703 and Peptide 11704 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 11125 except that these peptides also contain other amino acid substitutions in the peptide sequence different C termini and other acyl moieties at their N termini. The details for these syntheses are set forth below.

For the synthesis of Peptide 1109 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu Glu His D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Glu OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 1111 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 1113 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 1115 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Lys M e Nle D Arg Har hgH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH. For the synthesis of Peptide 1117 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Lys Me Nle D Arg Har hgH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11107 the chemical structure of which is N Me Aib TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH and Boc N Me Aib OH. For the synthesis of Peptide 11109 the chemical structure of which is Dca TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11111 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH. For the synthesis of Peptide 11113 the chemical structure of which is Fer Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Fer OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11115 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11117 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11119 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada D Phe Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc D Phe OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH. For the synthesis of Peptide 11121 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Phe Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH. For the synthesis of Peptide 11123 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11207 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11209 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Apa hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11211 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11213 the chemical structure of which is Oct Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr et His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Et OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Oct OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11215 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Arg Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11307 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11309 the chemical structure of which is Me NH Sub Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Me NH Sub OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11315 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NHthe following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11317 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11319 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr et His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Et OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11321 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg ArgAda hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11407 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11408 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11409 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11411 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11413 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa 3 Pal Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc 3 Pal OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11417 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11419 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11421 the chemical structure of which is N Me Aib Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH and Boc N Me Aib OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11423 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Dip Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Dip OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11321 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Arg Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11407 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11408 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11409 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Me Ala Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11411 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11413 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa 3 Pal Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc 3 Pal OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11417 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Amc hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11419 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11421 the chemical structure of which is N Me Aib Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH and Boc N Me Aib OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11423 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Dip Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Dip OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11425 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys PhAc Tyr D Arg Asp Ala Ile Cpa Thr Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Boc OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.F or the synthesis of Peptide 11427 the chemical structure of which is N Me Aib Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys N Me Aib Tyr D Arg Asp Ala Ile Cpa Thr Ala Har Tyr M e His Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Boc OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH and Boc N Me Aib OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11429 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ala Lys Oct hGH RH 1 29 NH the MBHA resin is first loaded with Boc Lys Fmoc OH followed by removal of the Fmoc protecting group as described in Table II section 1. Deprotection and acylation of the amino group of Lys with octanoic acid Oct OH . Subsequently the rest of the peptide chain is constructed in the usual way using Boc strategy by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order Boc Ala OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11431 the chemical structure of which is N Me Aib Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ala Lys Oct hGH RH 1 29 NH the MBHA resin is first loaded with Boc Lys Fmoc OH followed by removal of the Fmoc protecting group as described in Table II section 1. Deprotection and acylation of the amino group of Lys with octanoic acid Oct OH . Subsequently the rest of the peptide chain is constructed in the usual way using Boc strategy by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order Boc Ala OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH and Boc N Me Aib OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11433 the chemical structure of which is Nac Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Nac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11435 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11437 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11439 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Lys Me Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11441 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys Me Abu His Lys Me Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11443 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Lys Me Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11445 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys Me Abu His Lys Me Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Me OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11447 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu Har Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11449 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu Har Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11451 the chemical structure of which is Nac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Nac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11453 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11455 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEA hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEA OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11457 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11459 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11461 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Phe TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11463 the chemical structure of which is PhAc TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11465 the chemical structure of which is PhAc TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11467 the chemical structure of which is Ada Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH and Boc Ada OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11469 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11471 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Asp Ala Ile Cpa Thr Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Boc OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11473 the chemical structure of which is PHAc Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11475 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada D Phe Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc D Phe OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11477 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu Glu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Glu OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11479 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada TyrD Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11481 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Lys NH Ahx hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ahx OH Z Lys Boc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11483 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEP hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEP OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11485 the chemical structure of which is CH CH CO Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with CH CH COOH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11487 the chemical structure of which is CH CH CO Ada TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with CH CH COOH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11491 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada TyrD Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11497 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc TyrD Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg HarAda hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO O Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11499 the chemical structure of which is PhAc TyrD Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg HarAda hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11501 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ala Lys Oct hGH RH 1 29 NH the MBHA resin is first loaded with Boc Lys Fmoc OH followed by removal of the Fmoc protecting group as described in Table II section 1. Deprotection and acylation of the amino group of Lys with octanoic acid Oct OH . Subsequently the rest of the peptide chain is constructed in the usual way using Boc strategy by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order Boc Ala OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11503 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ala Lys Oct hGH RH 1 29 NH the MBHA resin is first loaded with Boc Lys Fmoc OH followed by removal of the Fmoc protecting group as described in Table II section 1. Deprotection and acylation of the amino group of Lys with octanoic acid Oct OH . Subsequently the rest of the peptide chain is constructed in the usual way using Boc strategy by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order Boc Ala OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11513 the chemical structure of which Dca Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11515 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Lys Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Asp Ala Ile Cpa Thr Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys Boc OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11521 the chemical structure of which is Dca Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11523 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Orn Glu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Glu OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11525 the chemical structure of which is PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Orn His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11601 the chemical structure of which is CH CH CO Ada Tyr D Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with CH CH COOH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11602 the chemical structure of which is CPhAc Ada Tyr D Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11603 the chemical structure of which is DCA Ada Tyr D Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11610 the chemical structure of which PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Phe F His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with PhAc OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11611 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11612 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11620 the chemical structure of which Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg ArgAda hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11621 the chemical structure of which is Me NH Sub Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH followed by acylation with Me NH Sub OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11630 the chemical structure of which is Ac Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Me ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Ada hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Ac OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11701 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu Glu Orn Nle D Arg Har AEP hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEP OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Glu OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11702 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu Glu Har Orn Nle D Arg Har AEP hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEP OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Glu OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11703 the chemical structure of which is Dca Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu Glu Har Orn Nle D Arg Har AEP hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEP OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Glu OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with Dca OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11704 the chemical structure of which is CH CH CO Ada Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har AEP hGH RH 1 29 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc AEP OH Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH followed by acylation with CH CH COOH.

HF cleavage and deprotection and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 1109 Peptide 1111 Peptide 1113 Peptide 1115 Peptide 1117 Peptide 11107 Peptide 11109 Peptide 11111 Peptide 11113 Peptide 11115 Peptide Peptide 11119 Peptide 11121 Peptide 11123 Peptide 11207 Peptide 11209 Peptide Peptide 11213 Peptide 11215 Peptide 11307 Peptide 11309 Peptide 11315 Peptide 11317 Peptide 11319 Peptide 11321 Peptide 11407 Peptide 11408 Peptide 11409 Peptide 11411 Peptide 11413 Peptide 11417 Peptide 11419 Peptide 11421 Peptide 11423 Peptide 11425 Peptide 11427 Peptide 11429 Peptide 11431 Peptide 11433 Peptide 11435 Peptide 11437 Peptide 11439 Peptide 11441 Peptide 11443 Peptide 11445 Peptide 11447 Peptide 11449 Peptide 11451 Peptide 11453 Peptide 11455 Peptide 11457 Peptide 11459 Peptide 11461 Peptide 11463 Peptide 11465 Peptide 11467 Peptide 11469 Peptide 11471 Peptide 11473 Peptide 11475 Peptide 11477 Peptide 11479 Peptide 11481 Peptide 11483 Peptide 11485 Peptide 11487 Peptide 11491 Peptide 11497 Peptide 11499 Peptide 11501 Peptide 11503 Peptide 11513 Peptide 11515 Peptide 11521 Peptide 11523 Peptide 11525 Peptide 11601 Peptide 11602 Peptide 11603 Peptide 11610 Peptide 11611 Peptide 11612 Peptide 11620 Peptide 11621 Peptide 11630 Peptide 11701 Peptide 11702 Peptide 11703 and Peptide 11704 are done as described in the case of Peptide 11125. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

 Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Nle D Arg Har Agm hGH RH 1 29 Peptide 11313 . The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. The starting material of the synthesis is Boc agmatine N sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl MBNA Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin with a substitution of 0.3 mmol g which was obtained commercially from California Peptide Research Inc. Napa Calif. . The synthesis of this resin has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 914 189 and in the scientific literature Zarandi M Serfozo P Zsigo J Bokser L Janaky T Olsen D B Bajusz S Schally A V Int. J. Peptide Protein Res. 39 211 217 1992 hereby incorporated by reference. Briefly Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin 1.67 g 0.50 mmol is pre swollen in DCM and then the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table I are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH. The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 l 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters. After removal of the N Boc protecting group from Amc the peptide is acylated with 1 acetylimidazole 220 mg 2 mmol .

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 500 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 mL m cresol and 5 mL hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 210 mg of crude product is obtained.

The peptide is purified by semipreparative H PLC and the eluting fractions are examined by analytical HPLC as described in Example I. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 33.0 mg of pure Peptide 11313. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

Peptide 11311 and Peptide 11415 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 11313 except that these peptides also contain other substitutions.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11311 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His D Arg Agm hGH RH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with 1 acetylimidazole.

For the synthesis of Peptide 11415 the chemical structure of which is Ac Amc Tyr D Arg Cpa Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har Agm hGH RH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin Boc Har NO OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Lys 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Amc OH followed by acylation with 1 acetylimidazole.

HF cleavage and deprotection and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 11311 and Peptide 11415 are done as described in the case of Peptide 11313. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

 PhAc Ada Tyr D Arg Asp Ala Ile Phe F Thr Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala His Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle D Arg Har Agm. Peptide 11604 PhAc Ada Tyr D Arg Phe F Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Agm hGH RH 1 30 

The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. The starting material of the synthesis is Boc agmatine N sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl MBHA Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin with a substitution of 0.3 mmol g which was obtained commercially from California Peptide Research Inc. Napa Calif. . The synthesis of this resin has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 914 189 and in the scientific literature Zarandi M Serfozo P Zsigo J Bokser L Janaky T Olsen D B Bajusz S Schally A V Int. J. Peptide Protein Res. 39 211 217 1992 hereby incorporated by reference. Briefly Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin 1.67 g 0.50 mmol is pre swollen in DCM and then the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table I are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The solution of Boc Har NO OH 500 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF DCM 1 1 is shaken with the neutralized resin and DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After the completion of the coupling reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table I are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Bachem are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters. After removal of the N Boc protecting group from Ada the peptide is acylated with phenylacetic acid PhAc OH 272 mg 2 mmol using DIC 313 L 2 mmol as a coupling agent.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 500 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 ml m cresol and 5 ml hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 220 mg of crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with C18 silica gel 120 pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. and linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN. For purification by semipreparative HPLC 220 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on a Beckman Ultraprep ODS column 21.2 mm 15 cm packed with C18 silica gel 300 pore size 10 m particle size . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 10 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 35.0 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

 PhAc Ada Tyr D Arg Asp Ala Ile Phe F Thr Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala His Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle D Arg Har Agm. Peptide 11606 PhAc Ada Tyr D Arg Phe F Me Ala Har Tyr Me His Orn Abu His Orn Nle D Arg Har Agm hGH RH 1 30 

The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. The starting material of the synthesis is Boc agmatine N sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl MBHA Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin with a substitution of 0.3 mmol g which was obtained commercially from California Peptide Research Inc. Napa Calif. . The synthesis of this resin has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 914 189 and in the scientific literature Zarandi M Serfozo P Zsigo J Bokser L Janaky T Olsen D B Bajusz S Schally A V Int. J. Peptide Protein Res. 39 211 217 1992 hereby incorporated by reference. Briefly Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin 1.67 g 0.50 mmol is pre swollen in DCM and then the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table I are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The solution of Boc Har NO OH 500 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF DCM 1 1 is shaken with the neutralized resin and DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After the completion of the coupling reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table I are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2CIZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr Me OH Boc Har NO OH Boc Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe F OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ada OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Bachem are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters. After removal of the Nomes Boc protecting group from Ada the peptide is acylated with phenylacetic acid PhAc OH 272 mg 2 mmol using DIC 313 L 2 mmol as a coupling agent.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 500 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 ml m cresol and 5 ml hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 216 mg of crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with C18 silica gel 120 pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. and linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN. For purification by semipreparative HPLC 216 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on a Beckman Ultraprep ODS column 21.2 mm 15 cm packed with C18 silica gel 300 pore size 10 m particle size . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 10 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 33.0 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

The peptides of the present invention were tested in assays in vitro and in vivo for their ability to inhibit the hGH RH 1 29 NHinduced GH release. Binding affinities of the compounds to the tumoral GH RH receptors were also measured. The antitumor activities of the peptides and their inhibitory effects on serum IGF 1 and on the tumoral IGF VEGF and FGF system were evaluated in various cancer models in vivo Inhibitory effects on phosphorylated PI3K AKT and MAPK ERK1 2 were also measured.

Male nude mice were implanted s.c. with 3 mmpieces of PC 3 human hormone independent prostate cancer tissue on both flanks. When tumors reached a volume of approx. 50 mm the mice were divided into 4 experimental groups with 8 to 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 35 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 1109 10 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11111 10 g day s.c. Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 35 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Experiment 2 was similar to Experiment 1. Experiment 2 was started when PC 3 tumors had grown to approximately 50 mmin volume. At this time the animals were divided into 5 experimental groups with 8 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 14 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 1109 5 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11109 5 g day s.c. 5. Peptide 11109 2 g day s.c. . Further details of Experiment 2 are the same as for Experiment 1

Male nude mice were implanted s.c. with 3 mmpieces of PC 3 human hormone independent prostate cancer tissue on both flanks. When tumors reached a volume of approximately 50 mm the mice were divided into 12 experimental groups with 8 to 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 28 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 11113 2 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11119 2 g day s.c. 5. Peptide 11209 2 g day s.c. 6. Peptide 11313 2 g day s.c. 7. Peptide 11408 2 g day s.c. 8. Peptide 11435 2 g day s.c. 9. Peptide 11457 2 g day s.c. 10. Peptide 11459 2 g day s.c. 11. Peptide 11469 2 g day s.c. 12. Peptide 11491 2 g day s.c. .

Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 28 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

All experimental details of Experiment 4 are the same as for Experiment 3 with the following difference. When tumors reached a volume of approximately 50 mm the mice were divided into 11 experimental groups with 8 to 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 46 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 11123 2 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11125 2 g day s.c. 5. Peptide 11213 2 g day s.c. 6. Peptide 11433 2 g day s.c. 7. Peptide 11473 2 g day s.c. 8. Peptide 11485 2 g day s.c. 9. Peptide 11497 2 g day s.c. 10. Peptide 11499 2 g day s.c. 11. Peptide 11521 2 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 46 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Among the GH RH antagonists tested Peptide 1109 and Peptide 11111 exerted a significant inhibitory effect on the growth of PC 3 tumors while the effect of reference peptide JMR 132 was not significant Table III . Abbreviated reference JMR 132 means PhAc Tyr D Arg Cpa Ala Har Tyr Me His Abu His Nle D Arg Har hGH RH 1 29 NH.

Peptide 1109 used at a dose of 5 u.g day as well as Peptide 11109 used at the doses of 5 u.g day and 2 g day inhibited the growth of PC 3 tumors more potently than reference peptide JMR 132. The inhibitory effect of Peptides 1109 and 11109 at the two dose levels was highly significant p

All peptides of the present application tested at the dose of 2 g day more potently inhibited the growth of PC 3 tumors than the reference peptide JMR 132 at a 5 fold dose of 10 g day. The inhibitory effect of Peptide 11313 Peptide 11435 Peptide 11457 Peptide 11469 and Peptide 11491 were statistically significant p

After 28 days of treatment all peptides of the present application given at a dose of 2 g day more potently inhibited the growth of PC 3 tumors than the reference peptide JMR 132 which was administered at a 5 fold higher dose of 10 g day. Table VI . The inhibitory effects of Peptide 11125 Peptide 11213 and Peptide 11473 were significant after 28 days Table VI .

At the end of experiment after 46 days of treatment Peptide 11125 Peptide 11213 Peptide 11473 Peptide 11485 and Peptide 11497 had a more potent inhibitory effect than reference peptide JMR 132 at a 5 fold dose Table VII . At the end of the experiment the inhibitory effects of Peptide 11125 Peptide 11213 Peptide 11473 and Peptide 11485 were statistically significant. Reference peptide JMR 132 had no significant inhibitory effect at the end of experiment Table VII .

Male nude mice were implanted s.c. with 3 mmpieces of H 460 human non SCLC tumor tissue on both flanks. When tumors had grown to a mean volume of approximately 90 mm the mice were randomly assigned into 4 experimental groups with 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 28 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 1109 10 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11111 10 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 28 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Male nude mice were implanted s.c. with 3 mmpieces of H 460 human non SCLC tumor tissue on both flanks. When tumors had grown to a mean volume of approximately 90 mm the mice were randomly assigned into 12 experimental groups with 8 to 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 28 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 11109 5 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11113 5 g day s.c. 5. Peptide 11119 5 g day s.c. 6. Peptide 11209 5 g day s.c. 7. Peptide 11313 5 g day s.c. 8. Peptide 11408 5 g day s.c. 9. Peptide 11435 5 g day s.c. 10. Peptide 11459 5 g day s.c. 11. Peptide 11469 5 g day s.c. 12. Peptide 11491 5 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 28 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Male nude mice were implanted s.c. with 3 mmpieces of H 460 human non SCLC tumor tissue on both flanks. When tumors had grown to a mean volume of approximately 90 mm the mice were randomly assigned into 8 experimental groups with 8 to 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 28 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 11123 5 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11125 5 g day s.c. 5. Peptide 11307 5 g day s.c. 6. Peptide 11317 5 g day s.c. 7. Peptide 11473 5 g day s.c. 8. Peptide 11485 5 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 28 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Among the GH RH antagonists tested Peptide 1109 and Peptide 11111 exerted a significant inhibitory effect p

All new peptides tested with the exception of Peptide 11109 inhibited the growth of H 460 lung cancers in vivo at a dose of 5 g day. The inhibitory effects of Peptide 11459 and Peptide 11491 were statistically significant p

Peptide 11123 Peptide 11125 Peptide 11307 Peptide 11317 and Peptide 11473 tested at the dose of 5 g day more potently inhibited the growth of H 460 lung tumors than the reference peptide JMR 132 at a 2 fold higher dose of 10 g day. The inhibitory effect of Peptide 11473 reached statistical significance p

Female nude mice were xenografted s.c. with MDA MB 231 tumor tissue from donor animals. When tumors had grown to a mean volume of approximately 50 mm the mice were randomly assigned into 2 experimental groups with 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 28 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. Peptide 1109 5 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 28 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Peptide 1109 at a dose of 5 g day inhibited the growth of MDA MB 231 human breast cancers in nude mice by about 75 . The inhibitory effect became statistically significant p

NCI N87 cancers were transplanted s.c. into both flank areas of 30 female nude mice. The mice were randomly assigned into 4 experimental groups with 6 to 9 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 77 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 1109 10 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 11479 10 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 77 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Panc 1 cancers were transplanted s.c. into both flank areas of 60 female nude mice and allowed to grow for 105 days before starting the treatment with GH RH antagonists. The mice were randomly assigned into 3 experimental groups with 8 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 36 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 11457 10 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 82 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Peptide 11457 powerfully inhibited the growth of Panc 1 human pancreatic cancers in nude mice for at least 82 days although the treatment was stopped after 36 days. Reference peptide JMR 132 was less effective. The results are shown in Table XII.

SK Hep 1 cancers were transplanted s.c. into both flank areas of 66 female nude mice and allowed to grow for 47 days before starting the treatment with GH RH antagonists. The mice were randomly assigned into 4 experimental groups with 8 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 135 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. JMR 132 10 g day s.c. 3. Peptide 1109 5 g day s.c. 4. Peptide 1109 10 g day s.c. . Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 135 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

Peptide 1109 even in a lower dose of 5 g day more potently inhibited the growth of SK Hep 1 hepatic cancers than the reference peptide JMR 132 at a dose of 10 g day. The inhibitory effect of JMR 132 was not significant however the effect of Peptide 1109 at the g day dose level was statistically significant. In addition Peptide 1109 caused total regression of 5 tumors out of 13 at a dose of 5 g day and as many as 7 out of 13 tumors regressed at the higher dose of 10 g day. By comparison in the group treated with 10 g day of JMR 132 only 2 tumors regressed out of 12. One tumor out of 10 also regressed in the control group spontaneous regression occasionally occurs in untreated SK Hep 1 cancers . The results are summarized in Table XIII.

Male nude mice were implanted s.c. with 3 mmpieces of PC 3 human hormone independent prostate cancer tissue on both flanks. When tumors reached a volume of approximately 50 mm the mice were divided into 8 experimental groups with 8 to 10 animals in each group and received single daily injections for 28 days as follows 1. Control vehicle solution 2. P 11513 2 g day 3. P 11602 2 g day 4. P 11602 1 g day 5. P 11604 2 g day 6. P 11606 2 g day 7. P 11610 2 g day 8. P 11610 1 g day.

Tumor volumes were measured once a week. The experiment was ended on day 28 by sacrificing the mice under Isoflurane anesthesia. Resulting tumors were cleaned weighed and snap frozen until further analyses. Statistical analyses of the measurement results were done by two tailed t test p

The aim of this study was to find out the tumor inhibitor effect of the latest GHRH antagonists Peptide 11423 Peptide 11602 Peptide 11604 Peptide 11606 on H460 human non small cell lung cancer cell line. Female nude mice were xenografted subcutaneously with approximately 3 mmpieces of H460 human non small cell lung cancer malignant tumor tissue. When tumors reached the mean volume of approximately 90 mm the animals was randomly assigned into different groups. Tumor volumes and body weight were measured once a week. At the end of the experiment mice were anesthetized and sacrificed. Tumors were carefully excised weighed and were stored at 80 C. until further investigation. Organs and tumor samples were preserved in 10 formaldehyde.

The aim of this study was to find out the tumor inhibitor effect of the latest GHRH antagonists Peptide 11602 Peptide 11604 Peptide 11606 and Peptide 11610 at the dose of 5 g day on HT human diffuse mixed B cell lymphoma cell line. Female nude mice were xenografted subcutaneously with approximately 3 mmpieces of HT malignant tumor tissue. When tumors reached the mean volume of approximately 120 mm the animals were randomly assigned into different groups. Tumor volumes and body weight were measured once a week. At the end of the experiment mice were anesthetized and sacrificed. Tumors were carefully excised weighed and were stored at 80 C. until further investigation. Organs and tumor samples were preserved in 10 formaldehyde.

Human ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells growing exponentially were implanted info five female nude mice by subcutaneous s.c. injection of 10cells in both flanks. Tumors That resulted after approximately 4 weeks in donor animals were then aseptically dissected and mechanically minced. Three mmpieces of tumor tissue were transplanted subcutaneously into experimental animals with a trocar needle. When tumors reached an appropriate size approximately 50 mm mice were randomly divided into two groups. The first was the control group the second group was treated with daily s.c. injections of 5 g P 11313 the third group was treated with daily s.c. injections of 5 g P 11604 the fourth group was treated with daily s.c. injections of 5 g P 11610. Tumor volume length width height 0.5236 was measured every week and mean tumor volumes of each group were compared by Student s t test. The study lasted 49 days. One week after end of treatment mice were killed under anesthesia tumors were snap frozen and stored at 70 C.

