---

title: Content targeting to particular individuals based on demographic and psychographic segmentations, utilizing the computer-implemented methods and specifically programmed computer systems for performing thereof
abstract: In some embodiments, the present invention is directed to a computer-implemented method which includes at least the following steps of requesting a consent to obtain an individual social media profile data; based on the consent, electronically obtaining the individual social media profile data from a social media electronic data source; determining individual specific parameters based on the individual social media profile data; matching the individual specific parameters to at least one segment identifier generated based on a predetermined segmentation of a target population of individuals; based on the matching, associating the at least one segment identifier with the individual social media profile data; and outputting an advertisement to the individual based on the at least one segment identifier associated with the individual social media profile data of such individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015151&OS=09015151&RS=09015151
owner: 
number: 09015151
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140530
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 047 232 filed Oct. 7 2013 which claims priority benefit to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 711 867 filed Oct. 10 2012 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to methods and systems for matching users with appropriate advertising and entertainment media and more specifically to methods and systems for matching target audiences with appropriate advertising and entertainment media based upon a user social media profile.

Target audience matching techniques are generally known. For example U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012041792 is generally directed to a method of segmenting a population. U.S. Pat. No. 8 131 271 is directed to categorization of a mobile user profile based upon browsing behavior. Similarly U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010203876 describes a method of inferring user profile properties based upon mobile device usage.

With parenthetical reference to the corresponding parts portions or surfaces of the disclosed embodiment merely for purposes of illustration and not by way of limitation the embodiments provide a system for matching entertainment media and or branded media shorts to a target audience using a matching algorithm based upon social media user profile databases and census based demographic population segmenting databases . The system includes a software application installed on a user portable device and a matching server residing at a remote location. The server and the software application interact with an advertising server a social media server and media content server . The software application may be installed on a user s portable device by downloading from a third party application distribution platform store . The matching server may include a segment list of segment numbers provided from the census based demographic population segmenting databases. The matching server may include a media short database of links to media shorts tagged with appropriate segmentation numbers from the segment list. The matching server further may contain a user database for storing a user s username and a list of appropriate segmentation numbers. A segment number assignment algorithm may also be configured and arranged to run on the matching server and be used for creating the user database. The matching server may also have a media short matching algorithm which generates a result list of media short matches to a user s profile and desired media short type. Additionally the media content server may contain a database of video short files .

In another aspect provided is a method for matching entertainment media and or branded media shorts to a target audience having the major phases of a preinitialization phase an initialization phase a usage phase and a post play phase . The preinitialization phase may involve the steps of creating a segmentation list creating a media short database and tagging media short entries in the media short database with appropriate segmentation numbers . The initialization phase may involve the steps of having a user download the software application installing the software application on a user s portable media device and asking a user for permission to obtain a user s third party social media profile information . The initialization phase may also include the steps of obtaining the social media profile information forwarding the user profile data from the software application to the matching server where a user database record is created and tagging the user database record with appropriate segmentation numbers .

The usage phase may include the steps of having the software application ask the user for a desired media short duration and ask for a desired media short genre . The usage phase may also include the steps of sending a request from the software application to the matching server for matching media shorts and generating a result list using a matching algorithm . Also included in the method may be the step of having the server transmit a subset of the result list to the software application and displaying the subset of the result list thumbnails and asking the user for a selection . Additionally the usage phase may include the step of the user requesting another set of recommendations or the step of the user selecting a media short . The usage phase may further include the steps of launching a media player contacting the matching server for advertising clip information and contacting the advertising server for a branded media datastream . The usage phase may include the step of launching the data stream .

The post play phase may include the step of the software application displaying a graphical user interface asking the user whether to play the next clip in a series or whether a new set of recommendations is requested . The post play phase may further include the step of having the user select the next clip in the series and launching the media stream .

At the outset it should be clearly understood that like reference numerals are intended to identify the same structural elements portions or surfaces consistently throughout the several drawing figures as such elements portions or surfaces may be further described or explained by the entire written specification of which this detailed description is an integral part. Unless otherwise indicated the drawings are intended to be read e.g. cross hatching arrangement of parts proportion degree etc. together with the specification and are to be considered a portion of the entire written description of this invention. As used in the following description the terms horizontal vertical left right up and down as well as adjectival and adverbial derivatives thereof e.g. horizontally rightwardly upwardly etc. simply refer to the orientation of the illustrated structure as the particular drawing figure faces the reader. Similarly the terms inwardly and outwardly generally refer to the orientation of a surface relative to its axis of elongation or axis of rotation as appropriate.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to thereof a first embodiment of the matching system is shown generally at . Matching system comprises the main components of software application installed on user portable device and matching server residing at a remote location. From a high level perspective server and software application interact with advertising server social media server and media content server .

Portable device connects to third party application distribution platform store in order to install software application . Software application has a user interface for interacting with user . Software application makes a network connection to server through link . Link is a cellular mobile data connection such as 3G 4G LTE CDMA GSM EDGE EVDO or other similar technology.

Server contains several data structures and algorithms. As shown in server contains segment list media short database user database segment number algorithm short match algorithm and result list . Segment list provides a predetermined segmentation of a target population. For example one form of segment list is a set of segment numbers in which each segment number is associated with a set of United States geographic zip codes. In this example each segment number represents a set of the United States population. Alternative implementations of segment list involve the association of set numbers with other population data such as age group sex political group or the like. More specifically in this embodiment segment list utilizes the segment numbers from the ConneXions PRIZM segmentation system provided by The Nielsen Company New York N.Y. USA. Segment list may be implemented as a database such as Microsoft SQL MySQL PostgreSQL or the like or may be implemented as a alternative data structure such as a hash table dictionary heap or other similar data structure. Segmentation list is used by segmentation number lookup algorithm .

Segmentation number look up algorithm provides a set of segmentation numbers that are matched to a user profile. A user profile contains data specific to a user which is typically maintained by social media services and typically includes a user s geographic zip code age gender and other similar data. One implementation of the segmentation look up algorithm takes a user s zip code alone and looks up all segmentation numbers in segmentation list associated with the given zip code. Such look up functionality can be specifically accomplished through an SQL query if segmentation list is a database or through a hash table look up if segmentation list is a hash table or dictionary. Other implementations of segmentation number look up algorithm include using more user profile parameters such as age group and gender and involve a matching algorithm such as vector based similarity ranking through cosine similarity or the like.

Server s media short database is a database for containing media short data. The data may be links to third party media shorts such as short videos in which each media short link is associated with a set of segmentation numbers from segmentation list . Alternatively media short database may contain actual media content such as video clip data files. One type of entry in media short database includes html address links to youtube.com video clips where each clip is tagged with an appropriate segmentation number determined by a manual review of the clip. For example a short youtube.com video about parenting may be tagged with the segmentation numbers associated with individuals having children. Each media short link in database may also be tagged with other identifying information such as the media short genre duration and or other similar information.

Server s user database stores a user s unique identifier and a set of segmentation numbers identified by segmentation number match algorithm based upon a given user s profile. A user s unique identifier may be a user s social media username id number or the like.

Server s short match algorithm is responsible for finding a set of appropriate database entries in media short database based upon a user s segmentation numbers in user database and any other search parameters provided by a user such as desired genre or video short duration. Result list is a temporary data structure for storing the results from a run of short match algorithm .

Server and application contain network socket interfaces for the transfer of data between each other. These network interfaces may be encrypted for example using SSL encryption.

Server also contains network interfaces for interfacing with social media server media content server and advertising server . Social media server is a server for a social media site such as facebook.com and whose purpose is to provide server with user profile information. Media content server is a third party media content provided such as youtube.com which is capable of streaming video shorts to software application . Such streaming video shorts may be relayed through server or be provided directly to software application . Similarly advertising server provides short streaming advertisements to software application . Such advertisements may be relayed through server or provided directly to application .

Software application may be implemented as a downloadable application such as an apple IOS application available from Apple s Appstore an android application available from Google Play or other similar application technology platform.

Shown in is a method of operation for system . Method has the main phases of preinitialization phase initialization phase usage phase and post play phase . Preinitialization phase includes the steps involved in the preparation and setting up the necessary data structures on server . Initialization phase contains the steps that allow a user to download install and initialize software application on a user s portable device . Usage phase involves the steps performed in a typical user sitting including matching and playing of a matched media short. Post play phase involves the steps involving providing a user ability to initiate additional usage options.

As shown in preinitialization phase begins with step the creation of segmentation list on server . Segmentation list is populated with a set of segmentation numbers tagged with demographic information from a source such as the Connexions Prizm segmentation methodology provided by The Nielsen Company New York USA. Next step is the creation of media short database by either manual or automatic filling in of external media short links. The media short links may point to media content stored either on a third party content provider such as media content server advertising server or may point to media content files stored on matching server . A relationship may or may not be established with the providers of media content server . Step follows which is the tagging of each external media short link inserted into database with appropriate identifier data. Tagged data includes segmentation number media short duration and genre. Additional data which may be added to each database include the video short s title description and a representative thumbnail. After preinitialization phase is complete initialization phase may begin.

In step the user profile data is received by server and a new database entry in user database is created based on unique data of the profile of user such as a Facebook login ID or other similar unique data. In step a set of segmentation numbers is tagged to the user database entry in user database by algorithm based upon the user s profile data. After initialization phase is complete usage phase may be started.

Next in step software application will send server a request including the desired media short duration and genre type. Step involves algorithm executing a search based upon the user s segmentation numbers located in database and the desired media short duration and genre type. Result list is generated as a result of this search. In step server sends back a subset number of recommendations of result list to application . The number of recommendations in this subset may be based upon the type of device user s media device is. For example a smartphone may receive four recommendations whereas a tablet device may receive eight recommendations. One or more of these results may be a paid recommendation. Included in the results sent back to application is the media short title description thumbnail and link

In step software application displays the subset of received thumbnails through its graphical user interface. In step user performs a selection of either one of the media shorts step or a request for another subset of media shorts step . If a media short is selected by the user pressing on a thumbnail software application displays the title description thumbnail and optionally a popularity metric. The popularity metric may be a counter icon such as a number of stars rating or a thumbs up thumbs down.

In step the user selects to play a desired media clip. Following step involves launching an external player application or launching an internal media player. In step software media application contacts server for advertising clip retrieval. In step server contacts advertising server for commercial information and data. The commercial will be matched according to assigned segmentation numbers of user and then played through the player. After the commercial is over in step software application will receive a stream video from either server or third party media content server . Upon completion of playing the media short post play phase is started.

Several alternative embodiments or modifications of the disclosed embodiments are possible. For example in another embodiment it may be advantageous to reupload a user s profile data as a function of time. This would accommodate the possibility that a user s profile data may change over time. For example every twenty days a user s profile data may be reobtained from third party social media server server and the segmentation numbers associated with user in user database will be updated with a new run of segmentation number match algorithm based upon the new profile.

In another embodiment software application may obtain location based data such as GPS or geographic data based upon local wifi networks. This location based data may be provided to advertising server such that the advertising server may provide commercials more appropriately targeted based upon current geographic location. Additionally media short match algorithm may also use the location based data to create result list .

In yet another embodiment additional data is stored together with a user s entry in user database . More specifically a user s media short viewing history and a user assigned rating to various media shorts may be stored in database together with a user s assigned segmentation numbers. For example if a user watches the second video short in a series this will cause a positive rating to be applied to the video short series in user database . Additionally if a user cuts a viewing of a video short before the end of the video this information will also be stored in a similar fashion as a negative rating of the video short in user database . In addition if the video short is shared with others over the third party social media system this will also be stored in user database as a positive rating. The short match algorithm is enhanced to use this additional data in producing the result list . Additionally software application is modified to ask a user to rate a media short upon the conclusion of playing a given short. Software application will then forward this rating data to server for storage with a user s entry in user database . This effectively creates a feedback loop allowing the system to progress over time by continuously improving the ability to provide content most relevant to a user.

The described system and method results in a number of surprising advantages. First a much higher degree of efficiency is obtained in the delivering branded content to properly target audiences. Because the provided branded content is selected based upon a user s profile a user s viewing of the provided content is much more likely to result in a favorable experience. Similarly since the advertisements provided to user are matched based upon the user s profile a commercial is much more likely to result in a favorable economic benefit for the advertiser. Several advantages also result from the close integration with a third party social media platform. For example users are able to easily spread favorable branded content with a large number of friends who upon the user s own experience and knowledge are properly targeted to enjoy the branded content. Further direct involvement with the third party social media allows the system to easily obtain accurate and current profile data with minimal effort. Obtaining data from a social media profile is much more efficient than asking a user to manually enter profile data and is much more accurate than guessing a user s profile based upon other metrics.

Additionally the system and method results in an advantageous technique of generating revenue by receiving payments from advertisers based upon the success and quantity of branded content being spread. This system method is better than existing advertiser payment schemes such as pay per click systems since these systems do not allow leveraging of social media.

Another advantage of the system is that the user experience is tailored to match the needs of a user having a portable media device. Namely such a user typically only has short periods of time in which to enjoy short media clips. The described system and method allows targeting this specific niche for synergistically providing mobile users with desired short entertainment while allowing advertisers to promote their goods to accurately targeted audiences. The system uniquely allows for the close integration of social media databases and census based demographic population segmentation databases which results in numerous benefits to the advertiser as well as the user.

Therefore while the presently preferred forms of practice in the invention have been shown and described and various modifications thereof discussed persons skilled in this art will readily appreciate various additional changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention as defined and differentiated by the following claim.

