---

title: Signal receiving method and electronic device
abstract: An electronic device including a first transceiver configured to process a first carrier, a second transceiver configured to process a second carrier, a switch, a baseband processor configured to process a first baseband signal and a second baseband signal, which are processed respectively by the first transceiver and the second transceiver, an antenna connected through the switch in association with some of a plurality of reception paths with respect to the first carrier, and a reception path configured to provide the second transceiver with the first carrier received via the antenna connected through the switch to the second transceiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590717&OS=09590717&RS=09590717
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09590717
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141022
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed on Oct. 22 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0126213 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a method and apparatus for diversity reception in an electronic device.

Wireless communication techniques are widely used not only in various industrial fields but also in real life. For example a portable terminal such as a smart phone which has become a necessity of modern life communicates wirelessly with a communication system of a vendor. Further near field wireless communication is widely used along with broadband wireless communication e.g. a mobile phone .

To improve communication quality wireless communication techniques have been developed in both hardware and software. For example a communication technique using a plurality of antennas has been developed and a technique for more effectively extracting data from a signal is under development. A diversity reception scheme is one example of a reception scheme that uses a plurality of antennas. In the diversity reception scheme a signal is received through different paths to acquire a plurality of reception RX signals and the RX signals are combined to increase the gain of the signal. The dimension of a path may be classified in terms of space time or frequency. For example in case of a plurality of antennas a plurality of paths may be formed in the spatial dimension.

If an electronic device e.g. a mobile phone performs diversity reception using a plurality of antennas the wireless communication device may include a plurality of hardware modules for processing the signals received through the antennas. In this case where signals received through different antennas are processed using different hardware modules path independence is ensured and when combined the gain of the signal may increase. In general diversity reception improves as the number of signal paths increases.

In addition an electronic device that uses a plurality of antennas may improve its reception capability by performing Carrier Aggregation CA . CA is a wideband communication scheme that uses different carrier frequencies. Each CA carrier is called a component carrier CC . Since resources of the respective carriers are independently scheduled the electronic device may receive data simultaneously through the respective carriers. For this the electronic device supporting the CA may include Radio Frequency RF and baseband signal processing modules corresponding to the respective carriers.

As described above an electronic device operating in a Carrier Aggregation CA mode may perform communication with a wide bandwidth by simultaneously using carriers of different frequencies. However even if CA is supported the electronic device may not always operate in the CA mode. Occasionally the electronic device may not always operate in the CA mode. Occasionally the electronic device may operate in a non CA mode. In the non CA reception mode according to a user s usage environment e.g. a manner of holding the device with a hand locations of a head and a terminal and the like an error may occur in a signal reception of an antenna. In this case there is a problem in that reception RX signal quality may be significantly decreased.

The present disclosure has been made to address the above mentioned problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus and method for performing diversity reception in an electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a first transceiver configured to process a first carrier a second transceiver configured to process a second carrier a switch a baseband processor configured to process a first baseband signal and a second baseband signal which are processed respectively by the first transceiver and the second transceiver an antenna connected through the switch in association with some of a plurality of reception paths with respect to the first carrier and a second reception path configured to provide the second transceiver with the first carrier received via the antenna connected through the switch to the second transceiver.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of controlling an electronic device is provided. The method includes processing a first carrier via a first transceiver when the first carrier is received if a second carrier is not processed providing the second transceiver with the first carrier received via an antenna connected to the second transceiver through a switch and processing the second carrier by the second transceiver when the second carrier is received and demodulating and decoding a baseband signal of the first carrier processed by the first transceiver and a baseband signal of the first carrier processed by the second transceiver.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a first transceiver configured to process a reception RX signal of a first carrier when operating in a Carrier Aggregation CA mode a second transceiver configured to process an RX signal of a second carrier when operating in the CA mode and a baseband processor configured to demodulate and decode a signal processed by the first transceiver and the second transceiver wherein the second transceiver converts an RX signal of the first carrier to a baseband signal when operating in a non CA mode and wherein the baseband processor is provided with a baseband signal of the first carrier from the first transceiver via an input means corresponding to the first transceiver and is provided with a baseband signal of the first carrier from the second transceiver via an input means corresponding to the second transceiver and thereafter provides the baseband signals to one processing module through internal routing to combine the baseband signals.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna a first transceiver and a second transceivers configured to receive at least one of a first signal and a second signal via the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna wherein if the first signal is not received the first transceiver receives the second signal via the first antenna and the second antenna and wherein the second transceiver is configured to receive the second signal via the third antenna.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of performing a communication via an electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving at least one of a first signal and a second signal via at least one of a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna and providing the first signal or the second signal to a first transceiver or a second transceiver wherein the providing includes if the second signal is not received providing the first transceiver with the first signal received via the first antenna and the second antenna and providing the second transceiver with the first signal received via the third antenna.

Hereinafter diversity reception for a wireless communication according to embodiments of the present disclosure is described. Terms used to refer to hardware modules hereinafter are for convenience of explanation. Therefore the present disclosure is not limited to the terms described hereinafter and other terms may also be used to refer to objects having the same technical meaning.

Hereinafter for convenience of explanation the present disclosure uses terms and names defined in 3Generation Partnership Project Long Term Evolution 3GPP LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A standards e.g. 3GPP TS 36.300 v10.3 . However the present disclosure is not limited to the terms and names but is equally applicable to a system conforming to other standards. In addition it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes and modifications of the embodiments of the present disclosure can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant a portable multimedia player a Moving Picture Experts Group 1 MPEG1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device e.g. a head mounted device such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart watch etc. .

According to the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smart white appliance having a communication function. For example the smart white appliance may include at least one of a television TV a digital video disk player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. magnetic resonance angiography magnetic resonance imaging computed tomography imaging equipment ultrasonic instrument and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an event data recorder a flight data recorder a car infotainment device an electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a vessel navigation device a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device and an industrial or domestic robot.

According to the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of a piece of furniture or a part of building construction including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature input device a projector and various measurement devices e.g. water supply electricity gas propagation measurement device and the like . The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the aforementioned devices. In addition it will be apparent to those of ordinarily skilled in the art that the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

If diversity reception is performed using a plurality of antennas the electronic device may include a plurality of signal processing modules.

According to the present disclosure the electronic device performs diversity reception using a plurality of signal processing modules e.g. transceivers provided for different purposes. For example if the signal processing modules provided for the different purposes are not presently being used the electronic device may perform diversity reception using a signal processing module presently being used for signal reception and a signal processing module which is not presently being used. For example signal processing modules for respective carriers of the electronic device supporting Carrier Aggregation CA of an LTE A system may be used.

Even if the electronic device supports the CA it may operate in a single carrier mode under the control of a network. The single carrier mode may be referred to as a non CA mode. For example such a case may include a case where a resource of a specific Carrier Component CC has reached full capacity i.e. is saturated and thus only one CC can be allocated a case where an amount of data to be transmitted to a corresponding electronic device may be sufficiently transmitted using only one CC. In a case of operating in the single carrier mode signal processing modules for a second carrier e.g. a secondary carrier may not be activated or may not be used. In addition even in a case of operating in the CA mode if a resource is not allocated at the second carrier in a specific duration the signal processing module for the second carrier may not be activated in the specific duration. In this case the number of signal processing modules which are not activated may vary according to the maximum number of CCs that can be supported by the electronic device.

As described above in case of the electronic device supporting the CA some of the signal processing modules may be deactivated according to an operation mode or a resource allocation situation. In this case according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may use a signal processing module for an unscheduled carrier to perform diversity reception with respect to a signal of a scheduled carrier. Herein when it is said that the carrier is unscheduled it may include a case of operating in the single carrier mode or a case where a resource is not allocated for one carrier in a specific duration of the CA mode.

In addition for diversity reception a Reception RX antenna is required in addition to the signal processing module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may use an antenna installed for a different purpose other than communicating with a transmitting apparatus e.g. a base station BS . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may use an antenna implemented for a signal processing module which is not used temporarily.

Referring to the electronic device includes an antenna connector a first Radio Frequency RF processing module a second RF processing module a first baseband processing module a second baseband processing module and a controller .

The antenna connector connects a plurality of antennas to the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module . Accordingly signals received through the plurality of antennas are provided to the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module . For this the antenna connector includes at least one antenna switch at least one diplexer and at least one band pass filter. The antenna connector is connected to at least one antenna corresponding to the first RF processing module and at least one antenna corresponding to the second RF processing module . In addition the antenna connector may be connected to at least one antenna for a different communication module not shown in . For example the different communication module may be a communication means for Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Global Positioning System GPS Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Near Field Communication NFC and the like. In this case the antenna connector may provide a signal received via the antenna for the different communication module to at least one of the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module under the control of the controller .

The first RF processing module and the second RF processing module process RF signals received via the antennas. For example each of the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module may include a filter an amplifier a mixer an oscillator an analog to digital converter ADC and the like. Each of the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module is commonly referred to as a transceiver. 

The first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module perform a conversion function between an RF signal and a bit stream. For example the first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module convert RF signals provided from the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module to baseband signals and restore RX bit streams through demodulation and decoding. For example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing scheme the first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module restore signals obtained by mapping baseband signals to subcarriers through a Fast Fourier Transform operation and thereafter restore RX bit streams through demodulation and decoding. The first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module are commonly referred to as baseband modems. In addition the first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module may be sub blocks in one modem block. The first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or may be constructed of separate modem chips.

The first RF processing module the second RF processing module the first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module process RX signals. On the basis thereof the first RF processing module the second RF processing module the first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module are referred to as RX modules. In this case the first RF processing module and the second RF processing module constitute one RX module and the first baseband processing module and the second baseband processing module constitute another RX module. illustrates two RX modules.

The controller provides overall control to the electronic device. The controller may be referred to as a processor or a processing unit. For example the processing unit may be a set of two or more processers. In another example the controller may be an application processor AP for controlling hardware and software elements and processing and operating a variety of data or a part of the AP or may be a communication processor CP for managing a data link in a communication and converting a communication protocol or a part of the CP. The AP may be implemented in one integrated circuit. The controller controls signals received via the first and second RF processing modules and and the first and second baseband processing modules and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller controls the antenna connector the first and second RF processing modules and and the first and second baseband processing modules and to perform diversity reception. For this the controller stores a rule for controlling each module in the electronic device according to a state of the electronic device. For example the state may include at least one of an operation mode of the electronic device and scheduling for carriers.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure under the control of the controller the first and second RF processing modules and and the first and second baseband processing modules and may respectively process a signal of a first carrier and a signal of a second carrier. Alternatively the first and second RF processing modules and and the first and second baseband processing modules and may simultaneously process the signal of the first carrier and the signal of the second carrier. In addition the second baseband processing module may provide a received baseband signal to the first baseband processing module to combine signals. In this case the first baseband processing module may combine an autonomously processed signal with a signal received by the second band processing module . In this case the first baseband processing module may combine signals according to various schemes. For example maximal ratio combining in phase combining uniform gain combining simple selection or antenna selection switching and the like may be used. Further if signals are received via three or more paths the first baseband processing module may selectively combine only some of signals to be provided.

Referring to an electronic device includes a first RX module and a second RX module to support a CA mode. The first and second RX modules and respectively correspond to the RF processing module and the baseband processing module of . For example the first RX module includes the first RF processing module and the first baseband processing module of and the second RX module includes the second RF processing module and the second baseband processing module of .

The electronic device of may receive a signal from a BS . For example in an embodiment of the present disclosure the BS supports only a single carrier mode and a non CA mode. For example the BS may be designed to not support the CA mode or to not support the CA mode temporarily. Accordingly the BS transmits only one carrier signal. In this case the electronic device may use the first RX module and the second RX module to process the carrier signal. Since the electronic device does not receive a plurality of carrier signals the first RX module and the second RX module may be allocated as reception paths for the carrier signal. In this case although not shown in the electronic device may receive a signal to be processed via the second RX module via an antenna provided for a different purpose other than communication with the BS or an antenna which is not presently being used. The carrier signal processed in the second RX module may be combined with a signal processed in the first RX module .

Although not shown in the electronic device may further include another RX module for the carrier signal. In this case the electronic device performs diversity reception by combining three or more signals. The electronic device enables diversity reception or increases the number of signals that may be used for diversity reception. For example if the electronic device has two RX antennas for diversity reception a reception path for diversity reception may be increased from two to three or more according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

In the first RX module and the second RX module are configured to process signals of different carriers. The present disclosure may be equally applied to a case where the first RX module and the second RX module are configured for different access networks. For example in a case where the first RX module is configured to support a global system for mobile communications or a 1xCode Division Multiple Access 1xCDMA or wideband CDMA system as a Long Term Evolution LTE system the aforementioned embodiment of the present disclosure may be similarly applied.

Referring to an electronic device includes a first RX module and a second RX module to support a CA mode. The first and second RX modules and respectively correspond to the RF processing module and the baseband processing module of . For example the first RX module includes the first RF processing module and the first baseband processing module of and the second RX module includes the second RF processing module and the second baseband processing module of .

The electronic device receives a signal from a BS . In this case the electronic device may operate in one of a CA mode and a non CA mode. A change between the CA mode and the non CA mode depends on control of the BS .

For example if the electronic device operates in the CA mode the electronic device receives a first carrier signal carrier 1 and a second carrier signal carrier 2 . Accordingly the electronic device processes the carrier 1 signal using the first RX module and processes the carrier 2 signal using the second RX module . That is the first RX module and the second RX module are respectively activated to process different signals.

Alternatively if the electronic device operates in the non CA mode the electronic device receives only the carrier 1 signal. When only one signal is to be delivered to the electronic device only the carrier 1 signal is transmitted but the BS may further transmit the carrier 2 signal for another electronic device. In the case where only the carrier 1 signal is transmitted the electronic device uses both the first RX module and the second RX module to process the carrier 1 signal. For example the electronic device assigns the first RX module and the second RX module as reception paths for the carrier 1 signal. In this case although not shown in the electronic device receives a signal to be processed via the second RX module by using an antenna provided for a different purpose other than a communication with the BS or a different antenna which is presently not being used. The carrier 1 signal processed in the second RX module is combined with a signal processed in the first RX module .

In another case not shown in the electronic device operates in the non CA mode and receives only the carrier 2 signal. In this case the electronic device uses the first RX module and the second RX module to process the carrier 2 signal. For example the electronic device assigns the first RX module and the second RX module as reception paths for the carrier 2 signal. The carrier 2 signal processed in the second RX module is provided to the second RX module and is then combined with a signal processed in the second RX module .

Thereafter if the electronic device operates again in the CA mode the electronic device receives the carrier 1 signal and the carrier 2 signal. Accordingly the electronic device processes the carrier 1 signal using the first RX module and processes the carrier 2 signal using the second RX module . The first RX module and the second RX module are respectively activated to process different signals.

Although not shown in the electronic device may further include at least one additional RX module for carrier 1. In this case the electronic device performs diversity reception by combining three or more signals. In the present disclosure the electronic device enables diversity reception or increases the number of signals that may be used for diversity reception. For example if the electronic device has three RX antennas for diversity reception the number of reception paths for diversity reception is increased from two to three.

Referring to an electronic device includes a first RX module and a second RX module to support a CA mode. The RX modules and may respectively correspond to the RF processing module and the baseband processing module of . For example the first RX module includes the first RF processing module and the first baseband processing module of and the second RX module includes the second RF processing module and the second baseband processing module of .

The electronic device receives a signal from a BS. In the electronic device operates in a CA mode. Accordingly the BS transmits a carrier 1 signal and a carrier 2 signal to the electronic device . The carrier 1 signal and the carrier 2 signal may respectively include a control channel and a data channel. The control channel may include resource allocation information for the data channel and must be decoded by the electronic device to perform a communication by using a corresponding carrier. The data channel is a region for delivering traffic and may be allocated or may not be allocated to the electronic device according to a scheduling result in the BS. If the data channel is not allocated the electronic device may not receive a signal during a corresponding duration.

In duration A control channels of carrier 1 and carrier 2 are transmitted. Accordingly the electronic device processes the carrier 1 signal using the first RX module and processes the carrier 2 signal using the second RX module . Accordingly the electronic device decodes the control channels of carrier 1 and carrier 2. The first RX module and the second RX module are respectively activated to process different signals.

In duration B the data channel of carrier 1 and carrier 2 are transmitted. In this case for example the data channel is not allocated to carrier 2. Whether a data channel is allocated or not may be determined from decoding the control channel. The electronic device may use the first RX module and the second RX module to process the carrier 1 signal. Since the electronic device does not receive the carrier 2 signal the first RX module and the second RX module may be allocated as reception paths for the carrier 1 signal. In this case the second RX module receives either a full duration or a partial duration of the data channel of the carrier 1 signal. Although not shown in the electronic device may receive a signal to be processed via the second RX module by using an antenna provided for a different purpose other than a communication with the BS or a different antenna which is not presently being used. The carrier 1 signal processed in the second RX module may be provided to the first RX module and combined with a signal processed in the first RX module .

In duration C a control channel of carrier 1 and carrier 2 are transmitted. Accordingly the electronic device processes the carrier 1 signal using the first RX module and processes the carrier 2 signal using the second RX module . Accordingly the electronic device decodes the control channels of carrier 1 and carrier 2. The first RX module and the second RX module are respectively activated to process different signals.

Although not shown in the electronic device may further include at least one additional RX module for carrier 1. In this case the electronic device performs diversity reception by combining three or more signals. According to a structure of the electronic device the present disclosure enables diversity reception or increases the number of signals that may be used for diversity reception. For example if the electronic device has two RX antennas for diversity reception a reception path for diversity reception may be increased from two to three or more according to the present disclosure.

Hereinafter to facilitate the understanding of the present disclosure various embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to examples of a configuration.

In the following description a high band and a low band are used to indicate carriers divided in frequency. The high band and the low band are relative concepts and may be defined differently.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna and a second antenna . The first antenna is connected to a first diplexer . The first diplexer separates a transmitted TX signal into a first signal e.g. a high band signal and a second signal e.g. a low band signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver. The second antenna is connected to a second diplexer . The second diplexer separates a TX signal into a first signal and a second signal and outputs the first signal towards the first transceiver and the second signal towards the second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal output from the first diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The first signal output from the second diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a first RX baseband processing module . The first RX baseband front end module and first RX baseband processing module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module.

The second signal output from the first diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. The second signal output from the second diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a second RX baseband processing module . The second RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module.

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal in the high band and includes a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal in the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband processing module and the first TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier the first duplexer and the first diplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier the second duplexer and the first diplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

An additional antenna may be connected to the first transceiver the second transceiver or a different communication unit through a switch . For example the different communication unit may include one of a Bluetooth module a Wi Fi module a GPS module a DMB module and an NFC module. Although one different communication unit is illustrated in a plurality of other communication units maybe included and thus a plurality of additional antennas maybe included. Although not shown in the different communication units may include a third transceiver.

The baseband process of includes the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or integrated circuit or may be included separately in a plurality of modem chips.

If diversity reception is performed by using an unused RX module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the additional antenna is used as an additional reception path. For this the additional antenna is connected to the first transceiver and the second transceiver through an antenna switch .

For example if the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the antenna switch may be used to receive the second signal through the additional antenna and to output it to the first transceiver. A signal output from the antenna switch is provided to the first transceiver via a first band pass filter which passes a signal in a frequency of the low band is amplified by an amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . In addition the second transceiver may provide the second RX baseband front end module with at least one second signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna and the second RX baseband front end module may provide the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device may further ensure one path for diversity reception. The second RX baseband processing module may combine the second signal received through at least one of the first antenna the second antenna and the additional antenna .

In addition if the first transceiver is currently processing the first signal the antenna switch may be used to receive the first signal through the additional antenna and to output it to the second transceiver. In this case a signal output from the antenna switch is provided to the second transceiver via a second band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the high band is amplified by an amplifier in the second transceiver and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . In addition the first transceiver provides the first RX baseband front end module with at least one first signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna and the first RX baseband front end module provides the at least one first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The first RX baseband processing module combines the first signal received through at least one of the first antenna the second antenna and the additional antenna .

Although only one path for signal routing between the first RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure. In addition although only one path for signal routing between the second RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure.

According to if it is intended to perform an additional diversity reception as to the first signal signal processing may be performed as shown in . illustrates a signal processing path of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In a signal processing path and activated blocks are indicated by a bold line.

Referring to if the first signal e.g. a high band signal is received the first transceiver for the first signal the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module may process the first signal. On the other hand the second transceiver for the second signal the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the second RX baseband processing module may not be provided with the second signal. Instead according to the present disclosure the second transceiver and second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor may receive the first signal through the additional antenna . For example the second transceiver and the second RX baseband front end module may receive the first signal through the additional antenna and may provide the signal to the first RX baseband processing module .

As described above a plurality of first signals are provided to the first RX baseband processing module . The plurality of first signals to be provided to the first RX baseband processing module is input to the baseband processor. In this case both of an input means for the first signal and an input means for the second signal are used and the first signals are collected in the first RX baseband processing module through routing in the baseband processor. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and may connect the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

Accordingly the first RX baseband processing module may acquire a diversity reception gain by combining three first signals received through the first antenna the second antenna and the additional antenna . According to a the present disclosure the first RX baseband processing module may combine the three RX signals or may selectively combine only two signals that is may use a diversity reception scheme such as Maximum Ratio Combining MRC in phase combination constant gain combination simple selection or antenna selection switching and the like. In addition to these schemes other diversity reception schemes may also be applied. For example the first RX baseband processing module may combine only two signals having excellent signal quality. Herein the signal quality may be determined on the basis of at least one of RX signal strength Signal to Noise Ratio SNR Signal to Interference and Noise Ratio SINR antenna correlation RX signal strength RX signal s arrival delay time and the like.

According to if it is intended to perform an additional diversity reception as to the second signal signal processing may be performed as shown in . illustrates a signal processing path of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In a signal processing path and activated blocks are indicated by a bold line.

Referring to if the second signal e.g. a low band signal is received the second transceiver for the second signal the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the second RX baseband processing module may process the second signal. The first transceiver for the first signal the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module may not be provided with the first signal. Instead according to the present disclosure the first transceiver and first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor may process the second signal received through the additional antenna . The first transceiver and the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor may receive the second signal through the additional antenna and may provide the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module .

As described above a plurality of second signals are provided to the second RX baseband processing module . The plurality of second signals provided to the second RX baseband processing module are input to the baseband processor. In this case both an input for the first signal and an input for the second signal are used and the second signals are collected in the second RX baseband processing module through routing in the baseband processor. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and may connect the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

Accordingly the second RX baseband processing module may acquire a diversity reception gain by combining three second signals received through the first antenna the second antenna and the additional antenna . According to the present disclosure the second RX baseband processing module may combine all of the three RX signals or may selectively combine only two signals that is may use a diversity reception scheme such as MRC in phase combination constant gain combination simple selection or antenna selection switching and the like. In addition to these schemes other diversity reception schemes may also be applied. For example the second RX baseband processing module may combine only two signals having excellent signal quality. Herein the signal quality may be determined on the basis of at least one of RX signal strength SNR SINR antenna correlation RX signal strength RX signal s arrival delay time and the like.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna . The first antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a first signal e.g. a high band signal . The second antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a second signal e.g. a low band signal . The third antenna is an antenna capable of receiving both the first signal and the second signal. The third antenna is connected with a diplexer . The diplexer separates a TX signal into the first signal and the second signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal received through the first antenna is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal. The first duplexer provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The second signal received through the second antenna is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor.

The first signal output from the diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a first RX baseband processing module . The second signal output from the diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a second RX baseband processing module .

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal of the high band and includes a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal of the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband processing module and the first TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier and the first duplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the second antenna via an amplifier and the second duplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

The baseband process of includes the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or integrated circuit or may be included separately in a plurality of modem chips.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one of the first antenna and the second antenna may be used as an additional reception path. In the first antenna is used as an additional reception path. For this the first antenna is connected with the first transceiver via an antenna switch .

For example if the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the antenna switch may output the second signal received additionally through the first antenna to the first transceiver. In this case the second signal output from the antenna switch is provided via a band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band to the first transceiver to be amplified by an amplifier and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . In addition the second transceiver provides the second RX baseband front end module with at least one second signal received through at least one of the second antenna and the third antenna and the second RX baseband front end module provides the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The second RX baseband processing module combines the second signal received through at least one of the second antenna the third antenna and the first antenna .

Although only one path for signal routing between the first RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure. In addition although only one path for signal routing between the second RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure.

According to to perform additional diversity reception concerning the second signal signal processing may be performed as shown in . illustrates a signal processing path of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In a signal processing path and activated blocks are indicated by a bold line.

Referring to if the second signal e.g. a low band signal is received the second transceiver for the second signal the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the second RX baseband processing module process the second signal. The first transceiver for the first signal the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module may not be provided with the first signal. Instead according to the present disclosure the first transceiver and first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor may process the second signal received through a first antenna . For example the first transceiver and the first RX baseband front end module receive the second signal through the first antenna and provide the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module .

As described above a plurality of second signals are provided to the second RX baseband processing module . The plurality of second signals to be provided to the second RX baseband processing module is input to the baseband processor. In this case an input for the first signal and an input for the second signal are used and the second signals are collected at the second RX baseband processing module through routing in the baseband processor. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and connects the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

Accordingly the second RX baseband processing module acquires an additional diversity reception gain by combining three second signals received through the first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second RX baseband processing module may combine all three RX signals or may selectively combine only two signals. For example the second RX baseband processing module may combine only two signals having excellent signal quality. Herein the signal quality may be determined on the basis of at least one of RX signal strength SNR SINR antenna correlation RX signal strength RX signal s arrival delay time and the like.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna . The first antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a first signal e.g. a high band signal . The second antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a second signal e.g. a low band signal . The third antenna is an antenna capable of receiving both of the first signal and the second signal. The third antenna is connected with a diplexer . The diplexer separates a TX signal into the first signal and the second signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal received through the first antenna is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The second signal received through the second antenna is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor.

The first signal output from the diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX front end module provides a signal to a first RX baseband processing module . The second signal output from the diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX front end module provides a signal to a second RX baseband processing module .

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal of the high band and includes a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal of the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband processing module and the first TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier and the first duplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or may be one integrated module. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the second antenna via an amplifier and the second duplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

The baseband process of may include the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or integrated circuit or may be included separately in a plurality of modem.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one of the first antenna and the second antenna may be used as an additional reception path. In the second antenna may be used as an additional reception path. For this the second antenna is connected with the second transceiver via an antenna switch .

For example if the first transceiver is currently processing the first signal the antenna switch may output the first signal received through the second antenna to the second transceiver. In this case the first signal output from the antenna switch is provided via a band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band to the second transceiver to be amplified by an amplifier and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . In addition the first transceiver provides the first RX baseband front end module with at least one first signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the third antenna and the first RX baseband front end module provides the at least one first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The first RX baseband processing module combines the first signal received through at least one of the first antenna the third antenna and the second antenna to perform diversity reception.

Although only one path for signal routing between the first RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure. In addition although only one path for signal routing between the second RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure.

According to for additional diversity reception concerning the first signal signal processing may be performed as shown in . illustrates a signal processing path of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In a signal processing path and activated blocks are indicated by a bold line.

Referring to if the first signal e.g. a high band signal is received the first transceiver for the first signal the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module process the first signal. In addition the second transceiver for the second signal the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the second RX baseband processing module may not be provided with the second signal. Instead according to the present disclosure the second transceiver and second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor may process the first signal received through the second antenna . For example the second transceiver and the second RX baseband front end module may process the first signal received through the second antenna and may provide the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module .

As described above a plurality of first signals are provided to the first RX baseband processing module . The plurality of first signals to be provided to the first RX baseband processing module is input to the baseband processor. In this case an input for the second signal and an input for the first signal are used and the first signals are collected at the first RX baseband processing module through routing in the baseband processor. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and connects the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

Accordingly the first RX baseband processing module acquires a diversity reception gain by combining three first signals received through the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first RX baseband processing module combines the three RX signals or may selectively combine only two signals. For example the first RX baseband processing module may combine only two signals having excellent signal quality. Herein the signal quality may be determined on the basis of at least one of RX signal strength SNR SINR antenna correlation RX signal strength RX signal s arrival delay time and the like.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna . The first antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a first signal e.g. a high band signal . The second antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a second signal e.g. a low band signal . The third antenna is an antenna capable of receiving both the first signal and the second signal. The third antenna is connected to a diplexer . The diplexer separates a TX signal into the first signal and the second signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal received through the first antenna is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The second signal received through the second antenna is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor.

The first signal output from the diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX front end module provides a signal to a first RX baseband processing module . The second signal output from the diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX front end module provides a signal to a second RX baseband processing module .

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal of the high band and include a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal of the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier and the first duplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the second antenna via an amplifier and the second duplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

The baseband process of includes the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or may be included separately in a plurality of modem chips.

If diversity reception is performed using an unused RX module according to the embodiment of the present disclosure one of the first antenna and the second antenna may be used as an additional reception path. The example of shows a structure in which one of the first antenna and the second antenna may be selectively used as an additional reception path. For this the first antenna may be connected with the first transceiver via a first antenna switch and the second antenna may be connected with the second transceiver via a second antenna switch .

For example if the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the first antenna switch may be used to receive the second signal through the first antenna and to output it to the first transceiver. In this case the second signal output from the first antenna switch is provided via a band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency is the low band is provided to the first transceiver so as to be amplified by an amplifier and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . In addition the second transceiver provides the second RX baseband front end module with at least one second signal received through at least one of the second antenna and the third antenna and the second RX baseband front end module provides the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The second RX baseband processing module combines the second signal received through at least one of the second antenna the third antenna and the first antenna .

In another example if the first transceiver is currently processing the first signal the second antenna switch may output the first signal received through the second antenna to the second transceiver. In this case the first signal output from the second antenna switch is provided via a band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band to the second transceiver so as to be amplified by an amplifier and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . In addition the first transceiver may provide the first RX baseband front end module with at least one first signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the third antenna and the first RX baseband front end module provides the at least one first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The first RX baseband processing module combines the first signal received through at least one of the first antenna the third antenna and the second antenna .

Although only one path for signal routing between the first RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module is illustrated in the example of two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure. In addition although only one path for signal routing between the second RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module is illustrated in the example of two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna and a second antenna . The first antenna is connected with a first diplexer . The first diplexer separates a TX signal into a first signal e.g. a high band signal and a second signal e.g. a low band signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver. The second antenna is connected with a second diplexer . The second diplexer separates a TX signal into a first signal and a second signal and outputs the first signal towards the first transceiver and the second signal towards the second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal output from the first diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal. The first duplexer provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The first signal output from the second diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX front end module provides a signal to a first RX baseband processing module .

The second signal output from the first diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. The second signal output from the second diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a second RX baseband processing module .

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal of the high band and includes a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal of the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via the first duplexer and the first diplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier the second duplexer and the first diplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

A first additional antenna and a second additional antenna are TX RX antennas that may be connected with a different communication unit other than the first transceiver the second transceiver and the baseband processor. Although two different additional antennas and are illustrated in case of three or more additional antennas may be included according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. For example the different communication unit may include one of a Bluetooth module a Wi Fi module a GPS module a DMB module and an NFC module. Although one different communication unit is illustrated in case of a plurality of other communication units may be included. In this case the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna may be connected to respective different communication units. Although not shown in the different communication unit may include a third transceiver.

The baseband process of includes the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example all of the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or may be included separately in a plurality of modem chips.

If diversity reception is performed by using an unused RX module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure one of the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna is used as an additional reception path. For this one of the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna is connected with the first transceiver through an antenna switch .

For example if the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the antenna switch may be used to receive the second signal through one of the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna and to output it to the first transceiver. In this case a signal output from the antenna switch is provided to the first transceiver via a band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band is amplified by an amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . In addition the second transceiver provides the second RX baseband front end module with at least one second signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna and the second RX baseband front end module provides the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The second RX baseband processing module combines the second signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna and the second signal received through one of the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna .

Although only one path for signal routing between the first RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure. In addition although only one path for signal routing between the second RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module is illustrated in the example of two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the embodiment of the present disclosure.

According to for additional diversity reception concerning the second signal signal processing may be performed as shown in . illustrates a signal processing path of an electronic device according to the present disclosure. In a signal processing path and activated blocks are indicated by a bold line.

Referring to if the second signal e.g. a low band signal is received the second transceiver for the second signal the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the second RX baseband processing module process the second signal. Since the first signal e.g. a high band signal is not received the first transceiver for the first signal the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module may not be provided with the first signal. If diversity reception using an unused module is not performed the first transceiver the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module may be deactivated.

According to the present disclosure the first transceiver and first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor process the second signal received through one of the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna . The first transceiver and the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor may process the second signal received through the first additional antenna and provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module .

As described above a plurality of second signals are provided to the second RX baseband processing module . The plurality of second signals to be provided to the second RX baseband processing module is input to the baseband processor. In this case both of an input for the first signal and an input for the second signal are used and the second signals are collected at the second RX baseband processing module through routing in the baseband processor. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and connects the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

Accordingly the second RX baseband processing module acquires a diversity reception gain by combining three second signals that is two second signals received through the first antenna and the second antenna and one second signal received through one of the first additional antenna and the second additional antenna . According to the present disclosure the second RX baseband processing module may combine the three RX signals or may selectively combine only two signals. For example the second RX baseband processing module may combine only two signals having excellent signal quality. Herein the signal quality may be determined on the basis of at least one of RX signal strength SNR SINK antenna correlation RX signal strength RX signal s arrival delay time and the like.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna . The first antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a first signal e.g. a high band signal . The second antenna is an antenna capable of receiving a second signal e.g. a low band signal . The third antenna is an antenna capable of receiving both the first signal and the second signal. The third antenna is connected to a diplexer . The diplexer separates a TX signal into the first signal and the second signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal received through the first antenna is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal. The first duplexer provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The second signal received through the second antenna is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor.

The first signal output from the diplexer may be provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX front end module may provide a signal to a first RX baseband processing module . The second signal output from the diplexer may be provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX front end module may provide a signal to a second RX baseband processing module .

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal of the high band and include a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal of the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier and the first duplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the second antenna via an amplifier and the second duplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

An additional antenna is a TX RX antenna that may be connected with the first transceiver the second transceiver or a different communication unit through a switch . For example the different communication unit may include one of a Bluetooth module a Wi Fi module a GPS module a DMB module and an NFC module. Although one different communication unit is illustrated in a plurality of other communication units maybe included and thus a plurality of additional antennas maybe included. Although not shown in the different communication unit may include a third transceiver.

The baseband process of includes the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or may be included separately in a plurality of modem chips.

If a diversity reception is performed using an unused RX module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the additional antenna is used as an additional reception path. For this the additional antenna is connected to the first transceiver and the second transceiver through the first antenna switch . If the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the first antenna switch is used to receive the second signal through the additional antenna and to output it to the first transceiver. In this case a signal output from the first antenna switch is provided to the first transceiver via a first band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band is amplified by an amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . In addition the second transceiver provides the second RX baseband front end module with at least one second signal received through at least one of the second antenna and the third antenna and the second RX baseband front end module provides the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for the diversity reception. The second RX baseband processing module combines the second signal received through at least one of the second antenna the third antenna and the additional antenna .

In addition if the first transceiver is currently processing the first signal the first antenna switch is used to receive the signal through the additional antenna and to output it to the second transceiver. In this case a signal output from the first antenna switch is provided to the second transceiver via a second band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the high band. The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . In addition the first transceiver provides the first RX baseband front end module with at least one first signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the third antenna and the first RX baseband front end module provides the at least one first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The first RX baseband processing module combines the first signal received through at least one of the first antenna the third antenna and the additional antenna .

If diversity reception is performed using an unused RX module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure one of the first antenna and the second antenna is used as an additional reception path. shows an apparatus in which one of the first antenna and the second antenna may be selectively used as an additional reception path. For this the first antenna is connected to the first transceiver via a second antenna switch and the second antenna is connected to the second transceiver via the second antenna switch .

For example if the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the second antenna switch is used to receive the second signal through the first antenna and to output it to the first transceiver. In this case the second signal output from the second antenna switch is provided via the band pass filter which passes a signal of frequency in the low band is provided to the first transceiver to be amplified by the amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . In addition the second transceiver provides the second RX baseband front end module with at least one second signal received through at least one of the second antenna and the third antenna and the second RX baseband front end module provides the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for the diversity reception. The second RX baseband processing module combines the second signal received through at least one of the second antenna the third antenna and the first antenna .

In another example if the first transceiver is currently processing the first signal a third antenna switch outputs the first signal received through the second antenna to the second transceiver. In this case the first signal output from the third antenna switch is provided via the band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band to the second transceiver to be amplified by the amplifier in the second transceiver and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . In addition the first transceiver provides the first RX baseband front end module with at least one first signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the third antenna and the first RX baseband front end module provides the at least one first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. The first RX baseband processing module combines the first signal received through at least one of the first antenna the third antenna and the second antenna .

Although only one path for signal routing between the first RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure. In addition although only one path for signal routing between the second RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module is illustrated in two or more paths may exist for the signal routing according to the present disclosure.

Referring to the electronic device includes a first antenna and a second antenna . The first antenna is connected to a first diplexer . The first diplexer separates a TX signal into a first signal e.g. a high band signal and a second signal e.g. a low band signal and outputs the first signal towards a first transceiver and the second signal towards a second transceiver. The second antenna is connected to a second diplexer . The second diplexer separates a TX signal into a first signal and a second signal and outputs the first signal towards the first transceiver and the second signal towards the second transceiver.

The first transceiver and the second transceiver convert a provided RF signal to a baseband signal. Although only amplifiers of the first transceiver and the second transceiver are shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may further include a filter an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

The first signal output from the first diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the first transceiver via a first duplexer . The first duplexer allows bidirectional communication over a single path for a TX signal and an RX signal provides a signal received via the first antenna to the amplifier and provides a TX signal provided from the first transceiver to the first antenna . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a first RX baseband front end module in a baseband processor. The first signal output from the second diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the first transceiver via a band pass filter . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the first RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a first RX baseband processing module . The first RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband processing module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module.

The second signal output from the first diplexer is provided to an amplifier in the second transceiver via a second duplexer . A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to a second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. The second signal output from the second diplexer is provided to an amplifier of the second transceiver. A signal amplified by the amplifier is provided to the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor. Thereafter the second RX baseband front end module provides a signal to a second RX baseband processing module . The second RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband processing module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module.

The baseband processor includes a first TX baseband processing module and a first TX baseband front end module to process a TX signal of the high band and includes a second TX baseband processing module and a second TX baseband front end module to process a signal of the low band. The first TX baseband processing module provides a baseband signal to be transmitted through the high band to the first TX baseband front end module . The first TX baseband processing module and the first TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The first TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the first transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier the first duplexer and the first diplexer . The second TX baseband processing module provides the second TX baseband front end module with a baseband signal to be transmitted through the low band. The second TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband front end module may be separate modules in a modem chip or integrated circuit or may be one integrated module. The second TX baseband front end module provides a TX signal to an amplifier in the second transceiver. A signal amplified in the amplifier is transmitted through the first antenna via an amplifier the second duplexer and the first diplexer . In the TX signal provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the two amplifiers and and the two amplifiers and may amplify signals of different bands. For example the amplifier of a first stage may amplify an intermediary band of the TX signal and the amplifier of a next stage may amplify a low band of the TX signal.

An additional antenna may be connected with the first transceiver the second transceiver or a different communication means through a switch . For example the different communication unit may include one of a Bluetooth module a Wi Fi module a GPS module a DMB module and an NFC module. Although one different communication unit is illustrated in a plurality of other communication units maybe included and thus a plurality of additional antennas maybe included. Although not shown in the different communication units may include a third transceiver.

A third antenna is connected with a diplexer . The diplexer outputs the first signal e.g. a high band signal received through the third antenna towards the second transceiver and outputs the second signal e.g. a low band signal towards the first transceiver. The second signal output from the diplexer is amplified by an amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first signal output from the diplexer is amplified by an amplifier in the second transceiver via a band pass filter and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . Alternatively according to the present disclosure the band pass filter may be omitted. In this case the first signal output from the diplexer may be amplified by the amplifier in the second transceiver and thereafter may be provided to the second RX baseband front end module .

In the baseband processor include the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module . In this case the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in at least one modem chip or integrated circuit. For example the first RX baseband processing module the second RX baseband processing module the first TX baseband processing module and the second TX baseband processing module may be included in one modem chip or may be separately included in a plurality of modem chips.

If diversity reception is performed using an unused RX module according to the present disclosure the additional antenna is used as an additional reception path. For this the additional antenna is connected to the first transceiver or the second transceiver via an antenna switch .

For example if the second transceiver is currently processing the second signal the antenna switch is used to receive the second signal through the additional antenna and to output it to the first transceiver. A signal output from the antenna switch is provided to the first transceiver via a first band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the low band is amplified by an amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. Further the diplexer outputs the second signal received via the third antenna to the first transceiver. The second signal output from the diplexer is provided to the first transceiver is amplified by the amplifier in the first transceiver and thereafter is provided to the first RX baseband front end module . The first RX baseband front end module provides the second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures another path for diversity reception. In addition the second transceiver provides at least one second signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna to the second RX baseband front end module and the second RX baseband front end module provides the at least one second signal to the second RX baseband processing module . As a result the second RX baseband processing module combines the second signal received via at least one of the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna .

In addition if the first transceiver is currently processing the first signal the antenna switch is used to receive the first signal through the additional antenna and to output it to the second transceiver. In this case a signal output from the antenna switch is provided to the second transceiver via a second band pass filter which passes a signal of a frequency in the high band is amplified by an amplifier in the second transceiver and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures one path for diversity reception. Further the diplexer outputs the first signal received via the third antenna to the second transceiver. The first signal output from the diplexer is provided to the second transceiver via the band pass filter is amplified by an amplifier in the second transceiver and thereafter is provided to the second RX baseband front end module . The second RX baseband front end module provides the first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . Accordingly the electronic device further ensures another path for diversity reception. In addition the first transceiver provides at least one first signal received through at least one of the first antenna and the second antenna to the first RX baseband front end module and the first RX baseband front end module provides the at least one first signal to the first RX baseband processing module . As a result the first RX baseband processing module combines the first signal received via at least one of the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna .

According to for additional diversity reception concerning the first signal signal processing is performed as shown in . illustrates a signal processing path of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In a signal processing path and activated blocks are indicated by a bold line.

Referring to if the first signal e.g. a high band signal is received the first transceiver for the first signal the first RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the first RX baseband processing module processes the first signal. In addition the second transceiver for the second signal the second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor and the second RX baseband processing module may not be provided with the second signal. Instead according to the present disclosure the second transceiver and second RX baseband front end module in the baseband processor receive the first signal through the additional antenna and the third antenna . For example the second transceiver and the second RX baseband front end module receive the first signal through the additional antenna and the third antenna and provide the signals to the first RX baseband processing module .

As described above a plurality of first signals are provided to the first RX baseband processing module . The plurality of first signals to be provided to the first RX baseband processing module is input to the baseband processor. In this case an input for the first signal and an input for the second signal are used and the first signals are collected at the first RX baseband processing module through routing in the baseband processor. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and connects the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material.

Accordingly the first RX baseband processing module acquires a diversity reception gain by combining four first signals received through the first RX baseband processing module the first antenna a second antenna the additional antenna and the third antenna . According to the present disclosure the first RX baseband processing module combines the four RX signals or may selectively combine only some signals that is may use a diversity reception scheme such as MRC in phase combination constant gain combination simple selection or antenna selection switching and the like. In addition to these schemes other diversity reception schemes may also be applied. For example the first RX baseband processing module may combine only two or three signals having excellent signal quality. Herein the signal quality may be determined on the basis of at least one of RX signal strength SNR SINR antenna correlation RX signal strength RX signal s arrival delay time and the like.

Unlike a signal processing path illustrated in the first signal received via the third antenna may be provided to the first transceiver along a path connected to the first transceiver. In this case a collision may occur with a signal received via the second antenna . However by turning off the amplifier on a path on which the first signal received via the third antenna is delivered the electronic device may avoid a transmission of the first signal received via the third antenna in the first transceiver. Herein turning off the amplifier may include one of blocking power supplied to the amplifier and applying an inactive signal to an enable node of the amplifier .

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure unlike the turning off the amplifier a switch may be included between the amplifier and the diplexer or the diplexer may be replaced with a switch similar to the antenna switch .

As described above according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a first transceiver for processing a first carrier a second transceiver for processing a second carrier a switch a baseband processor for processing a first baseband signal and a second baseband signal which are processed respectively by the first transceiver and the second transceiver an antenna connected through the switch in association with some of a plurality of reception paths with respect to the first carrier and a reception path for providing the second transceiver with the first carrier received via the antenna connected through the switch to the second transceiver.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a first transceiver for processing an RX signal of a first carrier when operating in a CA mode a second transceiver for processing an RX signal of a second carrier when operating in the CA mode and a baseband processor for demodulating and decoding a signal processed by the first transceiver and the second transceiver. The second transceiver may convert an RX signal of the first carrier to a baseband signal when operating in a non CA mode. The baseband processor may be provided with a baseband signal of the first carrier from the first transceiver via an input means corresponding to the first transceiver and may be provided with a baseband signal of the first carrier from the second transceiver via an input means corresponding to the second transceiver and thereafter may provide the baseband signals to one processing module through internal routing to combine the baseband signals.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna and first and second transceivers for receiving at least one of a first signal and a second signal via the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna. If the first signal is not received the first transceiver may receive the second signal via the first antenna and the second antenna and the second transceiver may be configured to receive the second signal via the third antenna.

Referring to in step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of processes a signal of a first carrier via a first transceiver for the first carrier. For example the electronic device may perform a process of filtering amplifying down converting to a baseband signal quantizing and the like on the signal of the first carrier. The signal of the first carrier may be a signal transmitted from a TX side e.g. a BS via the first carrier. The electronic device may be in a state of being scheduled for the first carrier. In this case a plurality of signals received respectively via a plurality of antennas may be processed in the first transceiver.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of processes the signal of the first carrier via a second transceiver for a second carrier. For example the electronic device may perform a process of filtering amplifying down converting to a baseband signal quantizing and the like on the signal of the first carrier. In this case the electronic device is in a state of not being scheduled for the second carrier. For example the TX side e.g. the BS may not support the second carrier or the electronic device may operate in a single carrier mode or a resource may not be allocated to the electronic device in a data channel of the second carrier or the electronic device may belong to a non reception duration in a discontinuous reception DRX mode in the second carrier.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of combines an RX signal processed in the first transceiver and an RX signal processed in the second transceiver. If a plurality of signals received respectively via a plurality of antennas is processed in the first transceiver the electronic device combines three or more RX signals such as signals processed in the first transceiver and RX signals processed in the second transceiver. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device selectively combines some of the three or more RX signals provided from the first transceiver and the second transceiver.

In the embodiment of the steps and are performed sequentially. However the present disclosure is not limited to the order illustrated in . Therefore according to another embodiment of the present disclosure the steps and may be performed in different orders or may be performed concurrently. It is apparent that all of the steps and may be performed concurrently or only some of them may be performed concurrently.

Referring to in step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of inputs an RX signal processed in a first transceiver to a baseband modem via an input corresponding to a first carrier. The input is a medium for delivering a signal from an external element of the baseband processor to an internal element of the baseband processor and connects the baseband processor to a path for delivering a signal to the baseband processor. The input may be referred to as a pin or a node and is constructed of an electrically conductive material. The baseband modem has a plurality of inputs for receiving a signal input. The plurality of pins may be divided into inputs corresponding to a first carrier and a second carrier. Herein a process in the first transceiver may include at least one of filtering amplifying down converting to a baseband signal quantizing and the like.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of inputs an RX signal processed in a second transceiver to the baseband modem via an input corresponding to the second carrier. In this case according to the present disclosure an RX signal processed in the second transceiver includes the signal of the first carrier. The electronic device may be in a state of not being scheduled for the second carrier. For example a TX side e.g. a BS may not support the second carrier or the electronic device may operate in a single carrier mode or a resource may not be allocated to the electronic device in a data channel of the second carrier or the electronic device may belong to a non reception duration in a DRX mode in the second carrier.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of performs routing on RX signals provided from the first transceiver and the second transceiver in the baseband modem and combines the RX signals. The RX signals processed respectively by the first transceiver and the second transceiver are input via inputs corresponding to the respective transceivers when the signals are input to the baseband modem but are collected at one baseband signal processing module through internal routing in the baseband modem. Accordingly the electronic device combines the RX signals. If a plurality of signals received respectively via a plurality of antennas is processed in the first transceiver the electronic device combines three or more RX signals such as signals processed in the first transceiver and RX signals processed in the second transceiver. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device selectively combines some of the three or more RX signals provided from the first transceiver and the second transceiver.

In the embodiment of steps and are performed sequentially. However the present disclosure is not limited to the order illustrated in . Therefore according to another embodiment of the present disclosure steps and may be performed in different orders or may be performed concurrently. It is apparent that all of the steps and may be performed concurrently or only some of them may be performed concurrently.

Referring to in step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of activates a signal path between an antenna for a different communication other than a communication with a BS and a transceiver for an unscheduled carrier. The electronic device has a communication unit for the different communication other than the communication with the BS and at least one antenna. For example the communication unit may include a Bluetooth module a Wi Fi module a GPS module a DMB module and an NFC module. In addition the electronic device has a plurality of transceivers which correspond to respective carriers. In this case the antenna for the different communication has a structure capable of connecting with the transceiver for the communication with the BS. For example the antenna for the different communication and the transceiver for the communication with the BS may be connected via an antenna switch a band pass filter and the like. In this case the electronic device activates the signal path by controlling the antenna switch and the band pass filter. Herein the unscheduled case may include one of a case where a TX side e.g. the BS does not support the second carrier or the electronic device operates in a single carrier mode a case where a resource is not allocated to the electronic device in a data channel of the second carrier and a case where the electronic device belongs to a non reception duration in a DRX mode in the second carrier.

In step the electronic device i.e. the electronic device of processes a signal of a carrier scheduled via the transceiver for the unscheduled carrier. For example the electronic device may perform a process of filtering amplifying down converting to a baseband signal quantizing and the like on the signal of the scheduled carrier.

In the embodiment of steps and are performed sequentially. However the present disclosure is not limited to the order illustrated in . Therefore according to another embodiment of the present disclosure the steps and may be performed in different orders or may be performed concurrently.

Although not shown in the electronic device may combine an RX signal processed via the transceiver for the unscheduled carrier and at least one RX signal processed via the transceiver for the scheduled carrier. The electronic device may include the transceiver for the scheduled carrier and can obtain a diversity reception gain by combining the RX signals.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device includes a plurality of antennas for a different communication other than a communication with the BS. In this case by activating one of the plurality of antennas the electronic device provides an RX signal to the transceiver for the unscheduled carrier. Further the electronic device changes the activated antenna according to whether a reception capability is improved how much the reception capability is improved and the like. For example although diversity reception is performed by activating a signal path between the transceiver and one of the plurality of antennas for the different communications if a reception capability improvement level is less than a threshold the electronic device activates the signal path between the transceiver and another antenna among the plurality of antennas for the different communications.

Referring to in step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of activates a signal path between an antenna for a different communication other than a communication with a BS and a transceiver for an unscheduled carrier. The electronic device has a plurality of transceivers which correspond to respective carriers. In this case the electronic device controls the signal path to deliver not the unscheduled carrier but a signal of another scheduled carrier. For example the electronic device activates a band pass filter for passing a signal of a frequency of the different carrier on the signal path and controls an antenna switch connected to an antenna for the unscheduled carrier so that a signal received via the antenna for the unscheduled carrier is delivered to the transceiver via the band pass filter. Herein the unscheduled case may include one of a case where a TX side e.g. the BS does not support the second carrier or the electronic device operates in a single carrier mode a case where a resource is not allocated to the electronic device in a data channel of the second carrier and a case where the electronic device belongs to a non reception duration in a DRX mode in the second carrier.

In step the electronic device i.e. the electronic device of processes a signal of a carrier scheduled via the transceiver for the unscheduled carrier. For example the electronic device may perform a process of filtering amplifying down converting to a baseband signal quantizing and the like on the signal of the scheduled carrier.

In the embodiment of steps and are performed sequentially. However the present disclosure is not limited to the order illustrated in . Therefore according to another embodiment of the present disclosure steps and may be performed in different orders or may be performed concurrently.

Although not shown in the electronic device may combine an RX signal processed via the transceiver for the unscheduled carrier and at least one RX signal processed via the transceiver for the scheduled carrier. The electronic device may include the transceiver for the scheduled carrier and can obtain a diversity reception gain by combining the RX signals

Referring to in step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of processes a first carrier via a first transceiver when the first carrier is received. Herein the first transceiver is a module for converting an RF signal to a baseband signal. For example the first transceiver may include a filter an amplifier an oscillator a mixer an ADC and the like.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of provides a second transceiver with the first carrier received via an antenna connected to the second transceiver through a switch. The second transceiver is a module for processing the second carrier when receiving the second carrier. However in a case where the second carrier is not processed if the electronic device does not receive the second carrier the electronic device provides the second transceiver with the first carrier. Accordingly the second transceiver may process the first carrier instead of the second carrier.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of demodulates and decodes a baseband signal of the first carrier processed by the first transceiver and a baseband signal of the first carrier processed by the second transceiver. In this case the electronic device combines the baseband signals processed respectively by the first transceiver and the second transceiver. The electronic device obtains a diversity reception gain by combining the baseband signals.

In the embodiment of steps and are performed sequentially. However the present disclosure is not limited to the order illustrated in . Therefore according to another embodiment of the present disclosure steps and may be performed in different orders or may be performed concurrently. It is apparent that all of the steps and may be performed concurrently or only some of them may be performed concurrently.

Referring to in step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of receives at least one of a first signal and a second signal via at least one of a first antenna a second antenna and a third antenna. Herein some of the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna are provided for a communication with a BS and the remaining antennas may be provided for different communications. In another example the first antenna the second antenna and the third antenna may be provided for the communication with the BS.

In step the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of provides the first signal or the second signal to a first transceiver or a second transceiver. In this case if the second signal is not received the electronic device provides the first transceiver with the first signal received via the first antenna and the second antenna and provides the second transceiver with the first signal received via the third antenna. Otherwise if the first signal is not received the electronic device provides the second transceiver with the second signal received via the first antenna and the second antenna and provides the first transceiver with the second signal received via the third antenna.

In the embodiment of steps and are performed sequentially. However the present disclosure is not limited to the order illustrated in . Therefore according to another embodiment of the present disclosure the steps and may be performed in different orders or may be performed concurrently.

Although not shown in the first transceiver and the second transceiver may respectively change the provided signals to baseband signals. Thereafter the baseband signals converted respectively by the first transceiver and the second transceiver are provided to a baseband processor e.g. a modem chip or integrated circuit and the baseband processor combines the baseband signals. In this case the baseband signal converted by the first transceiver is provided via an input corresponding to the first transceiver and the baseband signal converted by the second transceiver is provided to the baseband processor via an input corresponding to the second transceiver. Thereafter the baseband signals are collected at one processing module through internal routing in the baseband processor.

Referring to an electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication module .

The bus is a circuit for connecting the aforementioned elements and for delivering a communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned elements.

For example the processor receives an instruction from other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication module and the like and thus may interpret the received instruction and execute arithmetic or data processing according to the interpreted instruction.

The memory stores an instruction or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display the communication module and the like or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the aforementioned programming modules may consist of software firmware or hardware entities or may consist of at least two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel controls or manages the remaining other programming modules for example system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like used to execute an operation or function implemented in the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel provides a controllable or manageable interface by accessing individual elements of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware performs an intermediary role so that the API or the application communicates with the kernel to exchange data. In addition regarding task requests received from the plurality of applications the middleware performs load balancing for the task request by using a method of assigning a priority or the like capable of using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like of the electronic device to at least one application among the plurality of applications .

The API includes at least one interface or function for file control window control video processing or character control and the like as an interface capable of controlling a function provided by the application in the kernel or the middleware .

The input output interface receives an instruction or data from a user and delivers it to the processor or the memory via the bus . The display displays video image data and the like to the user.

The communication module connects a communication between another electronic device and the electronic device . The communication module may support a specific near field communication protocol e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC or a specific communication network e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and the like . Each of the electronic devices and may be a device which is the same e.g. the same type as the electronic device or may be a different e.g. a different type device.

The communication module may be used to perform a communication with a BS. For example for the communication with the BS the communication module may include at least one transceiver and at least one baseband processor. The baseband processor may include at least one baseband module. For example the communication module may include at least one of the antenna connector first RF processing module second RF processing module first baseband processing module and second baseband processing module of . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device for performing the communication with the BS includes the electronic devices of and .

An electronic device additionally utilizes RX modules to additionally ensure a signal reception path and diversity reception is performed on a plurality of signals thereby being able to improve reception.

In the aforementioned embodiments of the present disclosure an element included in the disclosure is expressed in a singular or plural form according to the embodiments herein. However the singular or plural expression is selected properly for a situation for the convenience of explanation and thus the disclosure is not limited to a single or a plurality of elements. Therefore an element expressed in a plural form may also be expressed in a singular form or vice versa. While the present disclosure is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

