---

title: Semiconductor-junction-derived random number generation with triggering mechanism
abstract: Various embodiments are described that relate to random number generation. When a desire arises for a random number a circuit can be completed with a reverse biased semiconductor junction element. When the circuit is completed an analog voltage spike can be produced that is random due to properties of the reverse biased semiconductor-junction element. This analog voltage spike can be converted into a digital value that serves as the random number. The digital value can be outputted and used as the random number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547476&OS=09547476&RS=09547476
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09547476
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141015
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

Computer systems can employ pseudorandom numbers for a variety of applications. To gain these pseudorandom numbers a seed number can be employed. The seed number can be provided to an algorithm that uses the seed number to produce the pseudorandom numbers. Since the seed number is known resulting numbers are not actually random numbers but instead are pseudorandom. Therefore if a party discovers the seed number then security can be compromised.

In one embodiment a system comprises an activation component and an identification component. The activation component is to activate a circuit comprising a reverse biased semiconductor junction element in response to a request for a randomly generated number. The identification component is to identify a voltage for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element where the randomly generated number is based at least in part on the voltage. The activation component the identification component or a combination thereof is implemented at least in part but way of non software.

In another embodiment a system comprises a measurement component and a generation component. The measurement component measures a voltage for a non diode reverse biased semiconductor junction element while the generation component generates a number based on the voltage for the non diode reverse biased semiconductor junction element. The number is outputted to a computer structure and the measurement component the generation component or a combination thereof is implemented at least in part by way of hardware.

In yet another embodiment a system comprises a trigger component a spike component an analog to digital converter and a number component. The trigger component is configured to trigger a circuit in a first instance in response to a first request for a first randomly generated number the circuit comprising a reverse biased semiconductor junction element. The trigger component is also configured to trigger the circuit in a second instance in response to a second request for a second randomly generated number. The spike component is configured to read a first voltage spike for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element produced from triggering the circuit in the first instance and is also configured to read a second voltage spike for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element produced from triggering the circuit in the second instance. The analog to digital converter is configured to convert the first voltage spike from a first analog input to a first floating point number output and is configured to convert the second voltage spike from a second analog input to a second floating point number output. The number component is configured to cause an output of the first floating point number output as the first randomly generated number as well as cause an output of the second floating point number as the second randomly generated number. The first instance and the second instance are independent instances and the first voltage spike and the second voltage spike have different values. The first floating point number output and the second floating point number output are non identical and the first randomly generated number and the second randomly generated number are different numbers.

In one embodiment a reverse biased semiconductor junction element can be used in generating a random number. To produce a truly random number the number can be based on a voltage associated with the reverse biased semiconductor junction element. Power can be supplied to the reverse biased semiconductor junction element causing a voltage spike. This voltage spike can vary randomly due to physical characteristics of the reverse biased semiconductor junction element and or a bias voltage. This random voltage spike can be converted into a floating point number that is truly random.

This random number can be used in electronics and computing applications and aspects can be applied in probability statistics or numerical analysis. Example applications can include generation of data encryption keys simulation and modeling random sample selection from large data sets or gaming applications. In a more detailed example the simulation can be wireless channel simulation e.g. the random number is used for multiple iterations of a simulated loop and or simulation of white noise on a modeled electronic circuit or photonic system.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

For the system when the switch closes the circuit can activate and as such the diode becomes active. When the diode becomes active the diode can release an analog voltage spike that can be measured off the resistor by the analog to digital converter . The analog to digital converter can convert this analog voltage spike to a floating point number. The floating point number can be outputted as a random number e.g. outputted to a personal computer by way of an interface such as a universal serial bus Ethernet connection RS 232 etc. .

For the system the random number can be generated from an already active circuit. With the already active circuit the resistor can have a voltage across itself produced from the diode . When the switch connects then the analog to digital converter can access that voltage and use that voltage to produce the random number .

In one embodiment multiple diode and resistor combinations can be put together in series or multiple independent circuits can be accessible by the analog to digital converter . The purpose of the diode can be for random number generation and the diode can be appropriately biased such that random voltage values can be identified e.g. observed . The analog to digital converter can select which of the series combinations from which to read the voltage and or which independent circuit to activate. The analog to digital converter can make these selections psuedorandomly based off a seed number thus including a level of psuedorandomness to the already random number. Therefore a further level of complexity can be given to the random number that makes the random number that much harder to decrypt.

The identification component is to identify a voltage for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element where the randomly generated number is based at least in part on the voltage. Identification of the voltage can be reading the voltage off the resistor of . The activation component the identification component or a combination thereof can be implemented at least in part but way of non software e.g. hardware . In one example of non software implementation the activation component can be the switch of and the identification component can be a voltmeter. In one embodiment when the circuit is activated a voltage comes across the resistor of . This voltage corresponds to the voltage for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element and identifying the voltage can comprise measuring the voltage across the resistor of once the circuit is activated.

In one embodiment before the activation component activates the circuit the circuit can be non functional e.g. the circuit is not completed and thus the diode of does not function . Once the activation component activates the circuit the circuit can be functional e.g. the circuit is completed and thus the diode of produces the analog voltage spike . Once the voltage is measured the circuit can return to non functional e.g. the circuit can return to a non completed state and thus the diode of does not function . In view of this inherent in the request can be a request for the circuit to be activated.

In one embodiment the request designates a future time for production of the randomly generated number and the circuit is activated at the future time e.g. by the activation component . In one example the request is part of a computer program. The computer program can have various commands that occur in sequence. The third command can be a command for production of the randomly generated number. Thus the future time is a time not in a first command of the computer program. When the second command completes then the third command can function and as such the randomly generated number can be produced.

In one embodiment activation of the circuit comprises powering the circuit such that a threshold voltage is met for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element. In response to the threshold voltage being met the reverse biased semiconductor junction element can produce the voltage non uniformly. In this non uniformity the voltage e.g. analog voltage spike can vary from one activation to the next activation.

The system as well as the system of can incorporate the circuit itself such that the system of and or the system of can be included. Furthermore the analog to digital converter can incorporate the output component the activation component the identification component or a combination thereof e.g. analog to digital converter outputs digital data to the external system and thus functions as the output component . A housing can retain the system . The system e.g. with the circuit discussed above can be added to a structure e.g. computer system and various applications can use the system to produce random numbers.

The generation component can generate a number based on the voltage for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element. The number can be outputted to a computer structure e.g. to an external computer structure . In one example the generation component outputs the number upon generation of the number. The measurement component the generation component or a combination thereof can be implemented at least in part by way of hardware e.g. the system comprises a voltmeter that functions as the measurement component the generation component or a combination thereof .

In one embodiment the voltage measured by the measurement component is produced from transmission of wireless power. Therefore the measurement component can measure a voltage of wireless power transmitted. In this embodiment a circuit that includes the reverse biased semiconductor junction element can include a wireless power transmitter.

In one embodiment the circuit that includes the reverse biased semiconductor junction element can include a resistor across which the measurement component measures the voltage. Prior to generation of the number the circuit can be non functional e.g. the circuit of where the switch is open while after generation of the number the circuit can be functional e.g. the circuit of where the switch is closed . Once the number is generated the circuit can again become non functional e.g. the circuit of where the switch is open until another number is to be generated. A configuration can also be where prior to generation of the number the circuit can be functional e.g. the circuit of where the switch is closed while after generation of the number the circuit can be functional e.g. the circuit of where the switch is closed .

In one example the monitor component can monitor functioning of a microcontroller e.g. identify when the microcontroller is not interrupted and when there is a microcontroller interrupt . This monitoring can result in a stream of samples such as a sample taken every 100of a second. If the microcontroller is not in interrupt then the result can be 0 while if the microcontroller has an interrupt then the result can be 1. The analysis component can analyze this result to identify when a 1 is present. When a 1 is present the causation component can cause the switch of to close and as such cause an analog voltage to go across the resistor of . The measurement component can measure the analog voltage and the generation component can generate a random number by converting the analog voltage to a digital floating point number. Therefore when an event occurs e.g. the microcontroller experiences an interrupt a random based digital floating point number can be produced.

In one embodiment the event can be a command of a computer program. In one example the event is a non first in time command of the computer program. The computer program can be configured to proactively implement a series of commands e.g. two or more commands that comprises the non first in time command. Proactive implementation can be that the computer program can on its own run the second command after the first command.

Similarly the system can function in a second instance. The first instance and the second instance can be independent instances such that they occur at different points in time. The trigger component can trigger the circuit in the second instance in response to a second request for a second randomly generated number. In one embodiment at least one of the first request the second request or a combination thereof is a manual request e.g. a user presses a button and in response to this button being pressed the trigger component causes the switch of to close and complete the circuit . The first request and second request can be sub requests of a larger request e.g. the larger request including the first request for a random number at time x and the second request for a random number at time y with x and y being different or be independent requests.

The spike component can read a second voltage spike for the reverse biased semiconductor junction element that is produced from triggering of the circuit in the second instance. Typically the first voltage spike and the second voltage spike can have different values. However it may be possible for the first voltage spike and the second voltage spike to have the same value by random chance that the reverse biased semiconductor junction element has similar functionality when being powered two times despite the randomness of the reverse biased semiconductor junction element. In one embodiment at least one of the first voltage spike the second voltage spike or a combination thereof result from transmission of wireless energy.

The analog to digital converter can convert the second voltage spike from a second analog input to a second floating point number output. The number component can cause an output of the second floating point number as the second randomly generated number. The first floating point number output and the second floating point number output can be non identical and the first randomly generated number and the second randomly generated number can be different numbers. However as discussed in the previous paragraph it may be possible for the first floating point number output and the second floating point number output to be identical and the first randomly generated number and the second randomly generated number to be non different in an off chance that the first voltage spike and the second voltage spike match.

In one embodiment a computer program can be used to produce these randomly generated numbers. The trigger component can trigger the circuit in the first instance in response to a computer program sending a command as the first request at a first point in time. The trigger component can also trigger the circuit the second instance in response to the computer program sending the command as the second request at a second point in time. The first point in time can be different from the second point in time and therefore the same computer program can cause generation of random numbers at different times.

In one embodiment the trigger component can trigger the circuit in the first instance in response to a first computer program sending a first instruction as the first request. The trigger component can also trigger the circuit in the second instance in response to a second computer program sending a second instruction as the second request. The first computer program and the second computer program can be different computer programs e.g. different copies of the same program or completely different programs .

In one embodiment the system functions in conjunction with the system of . Before the trigger component triggers from the first instance the circuit can be non functioning e.g. the switch of is open . After the trigger component triggers from the first instance the circuit can be functional e.g. the switch of is closed . The circuit can be non functional after the reading of the first voltage spike by the spike component e.g. the switch of is open . This return to non functionality can be directly after reading after conversion etc. The circuit can be non functional before the triggering by the trigger component from the second instance and functional after the triggering by the trigger component from the second instance.

