---

title: Systems and methods for social parenting platform and network
abstract: A parent social network based on relationship of children, including of activities, needs, interests or combinations thereof, is described. The parent social network can identify at least two minors with a common activity, need, interest or combination thereof, identify an adult responsible for the identified minors; and propose to link the identified adults. The parent social network can also provide post and other data to a parent based on interests and activities of a child. The parent social network can also identify and subscribe the parent to relevant children related calendars. The parent social network can allow effective communication between relevant parents using messaging and other means.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485210&OS=09485210&RS=09485210
owner: Bloomz, Inc.
number: 09485210
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140826
---
The present application claims benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 870 242 titled Systems and Methods for Social Parenting Platform and Network filing date 27 Aug. 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose.

This disclosure relates to the field of social networks and in particular to a social network systems and methods for adults responsible for minors.

Parents caregivers are typically busy and so are the children they provide for which raises the question of how to effectively connect the parents caregivers with the world around their children and reduce the stress on the busy parents caregivers thereby ensuring their children thrive. Demanding jobs require long hours that negatively impacts available family time. The intentions are always to bring about the best for a child which necessitates reliance on others for adequate support in this effort. There are no social networks that focus on the purpose of parenting or on the needs of parents caregivers families etc. Current systems networks are based on the parent s own personal connections while relying on unrelated online networks tools for collaboration. They don t enable connecting parents with other parents based on their child s social group school or activity. This can be a larger problem when parents are divorced deceased or no longer an active participant in a specific aspect of the child s life. In addition adults may not wish to co mingle the parents of their child s friends and acquaintances with their personal social network e.g. Facebook or Google Hangouts or their professional network e.g. LinkedIn.

A social network for parents is described. The social network connects parents and legal guardians based on their children s and minors connections at school and other activity centers. The social network can include a social parenting system including a social network machine including at least one of activities needs interests or combinations thereof of minors and a processor in communication with the social network machine. The processor can be configured to identify at least two minors with a common activity need interest or combination thereof identify an adult responsible for the identified minors and propose to link the identified adults.

In an example the social network machine includes minor identifying information and wherein the processor is configured to hide child identifying information from the identified adults and to identify the common activity need interest or combination thereof with the proposed link.

In an example the processor is configured to identify different circles of responsible adults for different common activities needs interests combinations thereof and children when the adult is responsible for more than one child.

In an example the responsible adult includes at least one of a parent a guardian a teacher a coach a care provider an activity provider or a school administrator.

In an example the at least one of activities needs interests or combinations thereof of minors includes at least one of a sports team a classroom a grade level a school organization a school an address a daycare center an activity center a medical need a daycare 

In an example the processor is configured to link the identified adults on the social network machine upon receiving an approval from the identified adults and configured to feed notices to the linked adults regarding the identified common activity need interest or combination thereof. In an example the adults can connect and collaborate through circles and groups as well as or in place of direct one to one connections with other adults.

In an example the processor is configured to feed trusted notices to the linked adults regarding the identified common activity need interest or combination thereof and wherein the trusted notices are stored in a memory of the social network machine using recommendation of other adults.

In an example the social network machine communicates with the adults through a home page associated with the adults email instant messaging texting phone call or combinations thereof.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein. It is to be understood however that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples and other embodiments may take various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features could be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention. As those of ordinary skill in the art will understand various features illustrated and described with reference to any one of the figures may be combined with features illustrated in one or more other figures to produce embodiments that are not explicitly illustrated or described. The combinations of features illustrated provide representative embodiments for typical applications. Various combinations and modifications of the features consistent with the teachings of this disclosure however could be desired for particular applications or implementations.

As an overview the presently described systems and methods for a social parenting platform currently being developed under the trademark Bloomz can allow parents to help their children reach their fullest potential by enabling them to make informed decisions based on the ecosystem around the activities needs and or interests of their children. The social parenting platform connects parents through their children s ecosystem in order to build a thriving community. A mobile device and or computer based parenting platform is provided that enables a parent to connect with other appropriate parents caregivers coaches activity directors and teachers enabling the child to flourish and simplify the life of parents. The present description uses the term parent throughout. It will be understood that parent is defined broadly to include any adult responsible for a child e.g. a biological parent an adoptive parent a foster care provider a guardian a person designated by a court or other governmental agency to be responsible for a child and relationships of similar import.

Adults responsible for children e.g. parents guardians and caregivers are typically busy and so are the children for who they are responsible. This raises the question of how to reduce the stress on the busy responsible adults thereby ensuring families flourish without impacting the child s ability to thrive. Many adults work demanding jobs which can require long hours or hours outside the historical 9 5 workday which negatively impacts available family time and time to organize a child s activities. Adult intentions are always to bring about the best for a child which necessitates reliance on others for adequate support in this effort in modern life. Consequently responsible adults find it difficult to make trusted connections with other parents in their child s ecosystem and need a platform that facilitates easy discovery of other parents and promotes collaboration among parents. Currently systems networks are based on personal connections while relying on unrelated online networks tools to find relationships. These networks are deficient in that they are designed at best to only collaborate with other parents that a parent already knows and therefore such networks are extremely limited without visibility to unknown net world resources that may be exist. Additionally such systems networks are not fully used as they lack parenting and child development focus and rely partially on other social networks such as Facebook or emails that are suboptimal and or generic in nature unlike the present system and methods. Traditional social networks are deficient in this area as many adults are reluctant to share their child s information on these networks. Still further some social network users prefer to keep their social networks dedicated to one group e.g. Facebook for friends outside of work LinkedIn for business contacts etc.

Systems and methods described herein will facilitate discovery and promote collaboration among parents activity centers schools teams and service providers related to minors. Systems and methods described herein relate to parenting and focuses on children while allowing parents to tap into collective intelligence through the ecosystem created using the social parenting platform. Systems and methods described herein provide for a personalized contextual trusted secure safe actionable vetted and accessible platform and network such that parents can rely on their network in the social parenting platform for making informed decisions. The parent social network actively engages parents with the community associated with their children and lets them discover valuable parent connections and parenting resources that they would otherwise miss. It can also consolidate communications and tools to simplify daily life.

In an embodiment a mobile device and or computer based parenting platform network is provided that enables a parent to connect with other applicable parents and teachers enabling the child to flourish and simplifying the life of parents. In an embodiment a mobile device and or computer based parenting platform that enables a parent discover applicable resources to help enrich their children and to enable better parenting. In yet another embodiment a mobile device and or computer based parenting platform is provided that enables intelligent and informed parenting using any one or combinations of the methods and or systems described herein.

Activity based parent networks are transient networks that are driven by the activities in which their children participate. These are transient as the child grows and changes interests. For example a parent network based on a child s classroom will change every year. A parent network based on a child s activity changes with the participation of the child. It is not uncommon for a child to be involved in dance for a few months and thereafter switch to and a sports team e.g. basketball and thereafter switch to an academic event e.g. science olympiad. There are very few systems tools that help parents flourish with these kinds of networks. Since traditional social networks depend solely on parents existing social network which is generic and limited they lack insight into the kids overall development.

The present inventors have heard parents say I wish I had more time for my kids Parents today are very busy and have limited time to dedicate to parenting especially the planning and logistics involved with their kid s activities school et. The present inventors have identified a need for systems and methods to provide parents with help to optimize that time. Besides the time issue the next difficulty they find is the means to tap into the collective parental intelligence parental experience in a trusted and reliable manner. Note that tapping into the intelligence and experience of the personal friends family network is relatively easier however there is a vast pool of unknown parents and the knowledge that lies with them is extremely powerful and could be useful to other parents. This is a part that parents are missing out on today as no prior social network delivers these features.

Likewise there is a lot of data that is available but very little useful relevant information. Parents have to mine through to find the information that is relevant and specific to them. Having busy lives parents crave for help from others e.g. a community whom they can trust for parenting chores such as pickup and drop off. They often are in a situation of Who do I contact or Where is the help when I need it Their contacts are scattered across several information islands such as phone email applications texting mailing lists Facebook Linkedin messaging chat applications such as WhatsApp Blackberry Messenger Google Chat viber etc. They want to do all of the above however in a secure environment which currently is not available.

The present inventors have also identified a need by schools and other children s activity centers for a social networking solution. Schools are reluctant to get involved directly due to their responsibilities to protect children as the in locus parentis and the requirement to secure data of minors e.g. Child Online Protection Act and the Data Protection Act. School based parent networks are also transient networks that may be driven by schools but have been found to be an ineffective collaboration tool which has led to limited participation. The parent teacher groups e.g. PTA PTO PA etc. rely on tools and distribution lists either generated by the school or active parents. As useful as they might be there are several limitations including but not limited to the following. Such tools and lists are still not personal enough to increase parent collaboration and a lack of online discovery on demand takes extra effort for networking between parents. Moreover such tools and lists do not identify related resources. For example directory list for a kindergarten class may provide names emails and phone numbers. However if a parent is considering changing pedestrians there is no good may to pose this to the group or receive a recommendation. As another example a parent wishes to organize an end of year gift for the teacher but lost the paper directory. With a social network this parent can login and contact the circle associated with the class minus the teacher of course .

A further problem is that school networks are not easy to use. The information is not provided in a user friendly manner. The data may not be timely and focused. The parents must then mine the network for information that s relevant to them. As a result the prior school networks are not efficient not lively and exciting enough to get the parents engaged. Many school networks are mere email interfaces i.e. the network has limited abilities not much can accomplished with just email. There is a lot more to make collaboration work. User desire more from a network to engage the user and achieve a critical mass of users and useful content.

Schools realize that parental engagement is critical to children s success however they are struggling to achieve this. There are several drawbacks to current systems.

Consequently the present inventors have identified that there is a need for a social network or system for parents that is developed around their children and their activities. Parents need a network that is personalized contextual trusted secure safe actionable vetted and accessible where parents can rely on their network for making informed decisions.

In an embodiment a social parenting platform is provided that helps parents make the best decisions for their kids by using the power of trusted collective intelligence and experience from a personalized secure extensive parent network and by providing data driven recommendations on activities and advices that help their kids reach their full potential.

In an embodiment the social network or system provides a virtual parenting ecosystem. In an embodiment the social network or system provides a personalized platform that is reimagined to connect parents through their children s networks in order to build a thriving community. In an embodiment the social network or system provides trusted collective parental intelligence and experience of other parents in the network and is readily available on mobile devices as well as on desktops laptops. In an embodiment the social network or system actively engages with the community and enables discovering and sharing. In an embodiment the social network or system consolidates communications and tools to simply daily life of parents.

The database layer can include machines e.g. data storage devices which store electronic magnetic or optical data. The data storage devices can form a Mango cluster with redundancy replication mirroring and backup of the data. The data stored on the devices can be all information described herein with regard to children and parents and the functions of the parent social network PSN . A storage device may hold information process information or both. A device that only holds information is a recording medium which can be electronic magnetic or optical. Electronic data storage requires electrical power to store and retrieve that data. Electromagnetic data may be stored in either an analog data or digital data format on a variety of media. The devices can electronically encode the data. The devices can include semiconductor devices or integrated circuits to electronically store data. The devices can include optical or magnetic tape to store the data. The devices can include optical or magnetic disks to store the data. The media on which the devices store the data can be either non volatile storage data remains if no power to the device or volatile data is only valid if device is powered .

The instruction layer can include memory to store instructions for execution by the PSN and processing circuitry to execute the instructions in the PSN . The instruction layer can include memory that is similar to database layer but such instruction layer memory can be dedicated to instructions and may not store parent or child data other than temporarily when executing an instruction. Instruction layer can store application program interfaces database interface instructions and processing circuitry . The processing circuitry when loaded with instructions is dedicated circuitry to performing functions of the PSN. Processing circuitry can operate to provide recommendations as described herein to suggest connections to parents based on a data relating to children and those children s relationships. Processing circuitry can execute instructions to create feeds of posts and other information to a specific parent on the PSN. This data can be sent to a parent s device from the processing circuitry or through other layers of the PSN. Processing circuitry can also execute instructions to pull information from other social networks regarding any individual parent on the PSN.

The business engine layer can include memory to store business instructions for execution by the PSN and processing circuitry to execute the business instructions in the PSN . Business engine layer can include a data layer that stores business level data that relates to generating revenue based on operation of the PSN and an engine that uses the data in data layer to perform business rules on the data being generated by the PSN to account for revenue owed to the PSN and in some embodiments account for amounts owed to external systems.

The web server layer can include memory to store communication network instructions for execution by the PSN and processing circuitry to execute the communication network instructions in the PSN . In an example the web server layer can include a Tornado server that has hardware e.g. a computer and the software e.g. instructions that delivers web content that can be accessed through a global computer network e.g. the Internet or to a local computer network. The web server layer can store process and deliver web pages to client devices e.g. parent devices. The communication between client device and server can use Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Pages delivered by the web layer can be HTML documents which may include images style sheets and scripts in addition to text content. The web server layer can include API handlers view handlers and models for both handlers.

The device layer can include memory to store device level instructions for execution by the PSN and processing circuitry to execute the device level instructions in the PSN . The device layer can alter the web page data based on the type abilities and settings of individual user devices. This assists in creating a satisfying environment for the parent users. Various control parameters and data models are used by controllers to adjust the content sent to a user from the PSN.

PSN communicates through a network to user devices . The user devices can be used by parents to access their profiles and data on the PSN. The user devices can have a wired connection to the network or a wireless connection to the network . The user devices can also receive data from the layers that was processes using instruction of methods described herein by layers and which can include data that is the result of processes described herein with regard to the parent social network including but not limited to verification signup circle interaction community interaction posting pinning volunteer requests recommendation of connections etc. Examples of user devices include but are not limited to phone smartphone tablet laptop computer personal data assistant internet of all things device a set top box a cable TV box a television or other electronic communication device.

At the parent social network launches a recommendation engine. These interactions by a user with the system can be through the user devices e.g. as shown in . The recommendation engine can be automatically triggered by three or more categories of recommendations. A people category can match parents in the social network based on the matching data regarding children e.g. age activity school etc. An activity center category can match parents in the social network based on children activity and the user s geographic location. The other category can match parents based on additional information e.g. specific educational resources data and other relevant sources.

At parents can view other parents or adults in the social network that are recommended in step . This can be limited by permission settings of the parents in the system. The parents can set the level of likelihood that the recommendation is strong likely or weak. The user can review the recommended parents and select which ones to invite to join a circle or join an existing circle.

At the user can view the details of an activity center which was recommended in step including the number and children in the parent social network PSN associated with that center. The user can also use the activity center to link to or join circles with parents that have children at that activity center of interest to their children. The user read reviews comments ratings scores etc. regarding the activity center are provided by the PSN.

At the user can access the details of the other category which was recommended in step including the number and children in the parent social network PSN associated with that recommended other category. The user can also use the other category to link to or join circles with parents that have children at that activity center of interest to their children. The user read reviews comments ratings scores etc. regarding the activity center are provided by the PSN.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for enrolling parents and providing recommendations. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

At the PSN can decide to not block the invite if the parent mentions the incorrect child name. This can assist with spelling errors or nicknames. The PSN allows the invitee adult decide whether to accept deny or block an invite. The PSN allows the adult users to see many potential connections but allows the invitees to control who they are connected to and whether the parent initiating the invite has the correct child. In an example the parent initiating the invite may agree to allow the invitee to see more data about themselves including data about their child to allow the invitee to confirm the association between the children of the parent and the invitee.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for providing link and connection recommendations. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

At the parent can search for adult matches at the specific class level of their child. At the parent enters into the PSN the grade that their child attends. At the PSN uses the location child grade and school to determine matches to other adults. The adult matches are adults with children who also attend the same school and are in the same grade. The PSN can also use additional criteria when matching. The additional criteria can be age grade or any other data known about the child. The matches between the parent and other adults can be provided to the parent who can choose to join circles with the matched adults or send invites to link with the matched adults with children in the same grade at the same school as the parent s child. At the PSN can provide a list of teachers that teach in grade and school that the parent s child attends. At the parent can establish a class circle or join seek to join an existing one to engage or connect with the teacher. The teacher can be the adult who hosts the class circle. The teacher can verify the parent is the parent of a child in his her class and allow the parent to join the circle. At the parent can indicate their child s specific class teacher. At the PSN can recommend adults to the parent based on the teacher identity. The PSN can provide a list of adults with children in that teacher s class. As a result parents of children in a same class can connect together or join a class circle for that specific class. With the establishment of a circle for a class the teacher can communicate with all the parents through the circle. The teacher can also link their class circle with the class circles of the other classes in the same grade to create a grade circle. The teacher can further link their grade class circle to a school circle so that school wide communication can be done through the PSN. The teacher can further link their grade class circle to a district circle so that district wide communication can be done through the PSN.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for providing recommendations to link parents together. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for specific events and calendar processes. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for school calendar processes. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

PSN can provide the ability for parents and other types of users to make instantaneous posts on their wall. These posts will be available to the subset of friends the parent chooses to post to. Likewise the parent receives a constant flow of posts from his her friends. There will be several of these posts that are relevant to the parent however there will be a few of these that parent would like to revisit or read again. There are a few reasons the parent will need to do so such as the post being very important the post being actionable and the user wanting to act on it later or the post being highly informative and the user wants to read it from time to time. PSN provided a platform by allowing the user to pin or save the posts. They can then re read the posts that they pinned. They can also un pin to remove the posts from the pinned set.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for pin processes and post processes. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

At the teacher can create teacher based co worker circles. These can be stored in the PSN. At the teacher can invite other teachers to the co worker circles. In an example the co worker circles are identified as work circles and parents can be blocked from joining these circles. This can provide closed communication for the teachers and not send internal work communications to parents. Such teacher circles can allow teachers to collaborate on any class topic and other general school topics.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for school community circle and or school verification processes. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

Verification can be done at the school level. As part of building secure school communities in the PSN every member needs to be verified. This ensures that right from the early times of PSN parents or other members get a sense of secure feeling in PSN. This verification process described herein may not be used to limit PSN membership but can be used for that particular community membership. The present verification can be used to differentiate between Unverified member vs Verified member vs PTA member.

An unverified member can be limited in their ability to access information on the PSN. Until a member is verified using the verification process in the PSN he is unverified or unapproved in the group and can t do anything in it posts events messages etc. Their access inside the community is very similar to a guest accessing the community. So their privilege is limited to functions associated with a View Info tab a View Members tab a view calendar tab or message administrators. The classes tab and its associated functions in the PSN are hidden from unverified members The unverified members of the PSN can view the community calendar. The PSN does not allow the unverified members cannot be auto subscribed or be invited to an event when an invite is sent to the community members as they are not an approved member yet.

Unverified members in the PSN can message the administrators just like they can message anyone on the PSN. Unverified members can view who the administrators are in the Members tab and function in the PSN. This allows administrators to communicate with the administrators if unverified members want to discuss for example about getting verified.

The PSN can also have verified members that have different status in the PSN relative to the unverified members. Once a user parent or other responsible adult is verified approved in the PSN for a community they become verified members. They enjoy the standard member privileges such as being able to post and receive posts from the group circle community etc. view group calendar and auto subscribed to it message members invite members verify members. In an example a verified member of a school community does not automatically make the user a PTA member. Each group can require that members be verified on its own terms.

The PSN can also have a PTA member status or verification process. PTA administrators are the ones that typically invite or approve a member to be a PTA member. Note that in the user interface provided by the PSN when a member is made either a PTA administrators or PTA board member or PTA staff they are automatically made a PTA member. All PTA members are verified members. The reverse is not necessarily true.

The PSN can also have PSN verified members. Verification to a particular school community is nothing but getting approved to become a member of a school community. This is separate from getting a PTA member status. The PSN can use the individual school community membership to derive the PSN level verified member status as follows. Any user in the PSN system becomes a PSN Verified Member if they are member of at least one official school community. Official school communities are ones that are either have the official school or official PTA onboard. Such users get the verified member badge e.g. a green tick mark at the top right corner which needs to be displayed in three places contacts listing member search listing and in the member profile. The PSN can show the badge in Contacts and Member profile for example on the user interfaces set to user devices. Selecting e.g. clicking on the badge should navigate to the Verified Member detail page which explains the safety approach of the PSN. This page can show the list of communities school and class of which the user is a member.

The PSN can provide a verification process. Early adopters of the PSN can be verified differently than later adopters. The first members e.g 10 or less number should be configurable so PSN can change the number of members irrespective of the role will be verified as follows. If a member is a verified member of another school community then they are auto verified in the PSN. The PSN can use phone verification. The PSN can request the parent to enter a number. The PSN can call the parent and ask them to enter the number e.g. a 4 digit code.

In another example the PSN sets a first member privilege. The PSN can make the first member the School Admin of the community.

The PSN also verify members who have been invited by other verified members. In an unofficial school either school becoming official or PTA becoming official regular verified members should be able to invite any role. Once a community becomes official in the PSN regular members can only invite regular members. When any verified member of a community invites users to that community the invited users should automatically be considered verified for the role to which they were invited.

The PSN continues accepting members after the early adopters. For teachers on the PSN there can be two options to get verified phone verification or community sourced verification. In some processes parents adding an child as part of PSN can also be subject to the same approval process as the people joining the PSN.

The PSN process for community sourced verification can include the following. When a parent seeks joins a community the parent s membership in that community is put on hold in the PSN. The already existing verified members parents of the community are requested to verify the new member. This verification can include sending general notifications are sent to all verified members of the community requesting them to verify the applicant user. In an example the PSN can designate a community leader or leaders. The approval request can then be sent to the community leader s to verify the applicant user approval request. In an example the verification requests are only sent to the community leader s . Examples of approval requests can include electronic notifications can include a selectable icon that indicates Approve or Verify member s and can include the member name. The PSN can compile and send a digest email that can be an in app personal feed aggregation post. In another example there can be a notification center in the PSN that provides an aggregation post similar to a calendar invite event notification in a parent s personal feed or the joined group notification post. In an example the PSN can provide an in app group member tab that can be selected to verify applicant parents from a member parent s page in app login page or other parent tab. In another example the PSN can provide direct notifications electronic communications to specific members of the applicant group. Direct notifications will be generated by the PSN and sent to the discrete verified members are identified by either the PSN or the applicant parent as those who can verify the applicant member as eligible for the circle or the community. Some such users for whom discrete verified members can be identified can include an identified user identified class parents personally connected parents in the PSN frequently contacted PSN parents or a phone contact. In operation the parent user who is requesting to join is shown the list of existing verified members who have the privilege to verify others and asked to identify a limited number of members who can verify the parent user. Class parents can also be used to verify the parent user. In an example if the parent user is part of another class e.g. at a different school or grade in the same school then all the existing class parents who are also a part of the requested community are automatically added to the direct notification list too. The personal connections of the parent user who are also verified members of this community are automatically added to the direct notification list or otherwise used to verify the parent user. The frequent communicator with the parent user can be automatically added to the direct notification list by the PSN. Frequent communications can be defined as a combination of x number of posts and y number of event invites and z number of messages between the parent user and the verified member. The phone contact of the parent user who are verified members and in the parent user s contact list of the parent user can be automatically added to the direct notification list or verify the parent user. Examples of communications for verifying users can be as flows. A call to action will be to Approve or Verify member s this can be an electronic communication using any of the communication abilities of the PSN. When email is used the email can state Hi User1 User2 is requesting to join the GR community. He has identified you as someone he knows. Being a responsible verified member of the GR community please verify user1 if you can recognize or vouch for him. The verification can be as simple as a selectable link in the email or request that the addressee login to the PSN to verify. An in app personal feed scan be used to verify the parent user and can be a post similar to similar to a calendar invite event notification in their personal feed. An in app group member tab icon can also be used to verify the parent user and can be electronically positioned on pages sent to a user device.

Once an existing PSN parent user is verified approved to a community they need to be notified of their approval into the circle or community. When the parent user if approved the PSN can generate the notifications will be as follows. The PSN can generate and send a call to action notification that request the parent user to invite more members to community . The PSN can also send an email to the parent user. The PSN can also generate and communicate an in app personal feed post which can be a post similar to a individual connection notification post in their personal feed.

If a parent user is not accepted into a community or circle then a rejection email can be send after a period of application pendency or the parent user s request to join the group.

When a new user makes a GetInvited request their request should be captured appropriately in the PSN and will be assigned a Pending Approval or On Hold status. The PSN can have communities that are either official or unofficial in the PSN. Official communities are the ones that have a verified PTA or School leaders adopting them. Unofficial communities are simply started by existing users. They shall be encouraged in the app to make them official community by reaching out to PSN for community verification. An example of a verification is as follows for a teacher or school administrator. If school admin s exist then request is sent only to them and they can approve a group or parent user. Else if parent teacher e.g. PTA PTO or other administrator s exist then the request is sent to all of them. If the school administrator and the parent teacher administrator s does not exist then a request for approval sent to a PSN administrator. Optionally the PSN can send a parent request a parent can pick a school and input whether they are a parent teacher association member or not. In some applications this can be required. The parent teacher member then picks a school which is then approved by a school administrator. When a non parent teacher association parent selects a school the parent goes through a community sourced verification process. Note that even if this user falls into an early adopters group which may not have full verification due to low participant numbers they still have to be verified by a community member or be invited by some PSN member in some context. For example when non parent teacher association parent who didn t pick a school is added then a PSN administrator approves thru an administrator tool in the PSN. New parent user can be limited to one request per new user i.e. they cannot request to be a teacher of one school and a parent teacher association leader of another school. Once their request is approved an approval communication or notification e.g. an email which has their invite code is sent to the user. This communication can be similar to the when they are invited to join PSN or a particular school group. The user can then use the code to join the PSN process flow can be similar to if they were invited as a particular role to a community or a connection request .

The PSN can also provide methods to approve multiple requests at once. When multiple roles are selected a method for this can include using a role precedence high to low 1 Teacher 2 PTA Admin 3 Parent. The target approver s need to be selected as though it is submitted as a single role request for the highest role i.e. if they choose admin and parent request needs to be handled as though it was submitted for admin only. The request to the appropriate approvers should show all the roles requested. So in this example the request should be submitted to the folks who can approve an admin role it shouldn t be submitted for parent request. The approvers approve all or none. There other possible scenarios after the user has gone thru the GetInvited process and before they get approved for that request 

If he is invited by a user in the same original getInvited context community and specific role his request is approved.

The user joins PSN and goes thru the PSN interface for all the invitations he was Invited to by others any approved requests. Note that any requests that are still pending approval should not be included in the interface at this time.

If a user didn t get invited by anyone then the user can t join PSN at all until he either gets invited by an existing member or his own request gets approved.

At the extracurricular activities are processed in the PSN. At the activity is selected or entered by a user. The location and time are also selected or entered. At the PSN matches the activity with data in the PSN database. At if the activity center and time match to other activities then recommend that adults connect or join a circle based on the common child activity entered.

Accordingly the PSN can link or join adults with children having the same curricular and extracurricular activities.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. for processes that use other social networks to join or update parent user information in the PSN. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

PSN can provide many benefits and functions for parents. PSN is the only social network application which helps parents make the best decisions for their kids based on their kids. Other social networks are not directed to children activities but be directed to parents. PSN provides parents the power of an extensive parent network not merely a social network. PSN provides the power of Smart discovery of the environment around the parent s children. PSN provides parents with data driven recommendations on activities and advices that help their kids reach their full potential. The PSN saves time by connecting parents instantly with other parents and educators that matter most to the parents. The PSN assists parents get the little things in life done quickly so they can focus on the big ones e.g. by consolidating parent s communications around children in one place enables collaboration with family and social members around children activities enables one to stay on top of one s parental tasks unlocks the potential opportunities for one s child with collective parent intelligence of one s trusted personal parent network provides intelligent recommendations based on the child s interests needs environment helps find the right activity center school daycare and helps plan parents activities around their children.

All of the above screen shots and displays can be generated by the PSN using data stored therein based on the instructions also stored in the PSN.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to . The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

At the invited parent enters identifying information for him her and information about the family e.g. the children into the PSN. The PSN can provide a form to the parent s device. The PSN can store this data in memory or in a database.

At the PSN sends the parents recommendation s of relevant parent connections and circles. The PSN determines recommendations using the information provided by the parent and using information related to the parent s child ren .

At the parent can invite other parents to join the parent s circles or connections. This creates for context to the PSN to recommend other circles or connections. The circles can be based on individual activities of the child.

At a parent can operate within the context of any of their circles which represent the activities of their child. Being in an activity circle provided the PSN with context as to a child s interests and activities to be used in providing further recommendations to the parent. The PSN can also use this information to provide recommendations to the parent regarding parenting materials resources additional activities relevant activity centers parent connections carpooling etc. For example the PSN can recommend activity centers that are used by other parents without revealing data or information about the other children or without revealing names of the parents involved with the activity center. Thus a secure relatively private recommendation network can be set up for parents.

At the PSN can provide the parent with a continuous feed of updates from parents in the circles in which a parent is a member. Such a live feed system enables the parents to stay in contact with other parents and their own children. The parent can also post updates to contact parents of children with children in the same activities as the parent. This is an efficient communication method that encourages parents to communicate and be involved.

At the PSN can provide a medium for the parents to contact each other on general topics as the parents have established a relationship through be members of a same circle. These interactions need not be activity specific. In an example the PSN can provide a means of communication outside the circles e.g. messaging direct updates etc.

At the PSN provides collaboration between parents outside the circles. The collaboration can include live posts feeds messaging chat a consolidated calendar alerts and the like. These types of collaboration can also be done in the circles as well.

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. parent user processes. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

At the activity center and service provider can use the PSN as a platform to operate parts of their business. Examples of operation can include showcasing products and service payment channels provide their activity in general and provide updates news related to their business. The PSN can help an activity center reduce costs and be more efficient.

At the activity center or service provider can create their own circles to develop a community and collaborate with parents. This circle can allow parents to communicate with each other on topics related to the activity center or service provider. This allows the activity center or the service provider to stay connected to parents and benefit from the parent s network and the parent s feedback and input.

At the PSN also stored data that can be searched by parents to discover an activity center or a service provider. When being searched by a parent on the PSN the PSN can provide parent reviews and how the parent network uses the activity center or the service provider.

PSN for activity centers and service providers provides can operate to increase reach retain satisfied parents build a reputation to generate more leads though localized trusted recommendations from parental network in the PSN which can be a good way to build more business increase parental engagement by keeping existing parents happy build recurring business with better parental connection throughout the service delivery build reputation on the World Wide Web through ratings from the network of parents that influence choices of many other parents. This data can be shared by the PSN to parents in the social network identified to be of interest.

PSN can provide various functions and benefits for a schools and parent teacher groups e.g. providing true collaboration between parents and teachers increasing parental engagement at both class and school level increasing the drive for student achievement making it easy to reach parents using BPN s secure and social network using BPN s mobile and WWW communication channels to keep parents are always in touch with their network advertising for volunteers in social and curricular activities providing parental resources and organizing events

The user devices can receive data from the layers that was processed using instructions of methods described herein with reference to e.g. use case processes. The processing can be performed at least in part by layers and . The user devices can also send input from parents to the layers for further processing in layers and . In some examples some instructions are carried out on the user devices .

The PSN can also provide methods for moderating content on the network. The PSN can allow the users the methods to flag a post flag a comment remove a post remove a comment Mute un mute personal connection and group community member unfriend or unlink an individual in my network remove group community member.

A user can flag a post using a post options drop down menu. The flag a post feature is available to all users. Flagging a post is available on any post that had at least one group in the recipient list. So a post made to one group and three individuals can be flagged by any of the recipients including the three individuals. The group members can flag it from the group or from their personal feed. When a user flags a post the post should be removed from that user s feed a confirmation should be shown just for that user. The PSN does not change the message for others. The confirmation can state e.g Post has been reported to Admin and removed from your feed. To flag a post an option Flag Post selectable icon can be added to any post or a page.

A user can remove a comment in the PSN. Users can hide any comment from their personal feed as well as from a group area in which they are a member. Doing so will remove it from both the personal feed area as well as the group area. This can be limited to just what that user sees. An administrator can hide a comment similar to any user.

A user can also mute un mute a personal connection or a and group community The PSN can allow a member to mute unmute personal connections or members of a group of which they are a par. Muting will result in the PSN not showing the user any posts made by the muted user except the ones that was made directly and only to the recipient and his her spouse. Muting will not mute any comments calendar related items or messages. Users can mute from a post they send or with a Mute sender first name selectable link or from their profile. Similar to the Edit profile the PSN can allow muting when a members profile is visited from a group community visiting a user s profile from outside should also have an Edit option. Clicking on Edit should have an option to Mute firstname. Muting does not show the membership settings as that is relevant only in the context of a group community.

The PSN can show a muted user s with an indicator or label in their view profile page to indicate that they have been muted.

When a user mutes members of a group the PSN does not showing any posts made by that user except the ones that was made directly and only to the recipient. The PSN does not mute any calendar related items or messages. The PSN allows users to mute from a post they sent or from their profile accessed from within the group. The PSN allows a user to unmute muted friends from their profile accessed from within the group. The PSN allows a circle community or group administrator the ability to mute or unmute a member for the entire group. This can be done when a profile accessed from within the group. A muted group member is only able consume data in the group e.g. posts events messages etc. In an example the muted member cannot respond or post. The PSN will notify administrators of muted members e.g. an email notification should be sent to the muted member notifying that the member is muted along with the reason that the administrator entered if available or a member listing page should indicate muted members only to the administrator. This can be similar to how the special roles are indicated. When the member enters the group area a banner should be displayed just for him indicating that he has been muted in the group and allowing him to message the administrator. The banner or message can read e.g. Your privilege to communicate in this group has been put on hold. Please contact the administrator. The PSN can provide an indicator or label in the muted user s view profile page to indicate that they have been muted.

The PSN can allow users to unfriend an individual in their network of groups connections links circles communities. The PSN can removing each other from the others friends lists disabling ability for them to post or event invite each other. Note that the past posts and events would still be shown but they wouldn t be able to comment like on those. The PSN allows them to message each other to Unfriend from their profile to Unfriend muted friends from their profile.

The PSN can allow an administrator the ability to remove a group community member. The removed user would have to re request.

In an example embodiment the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The processor includes circuitry to execute the method steps described herein. The memory includes circuitry to store the method steps and data relating to the parent social network. The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD plasma display LED display or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse pointer a drive unit an audio signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device e.g. in any machine readable form.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the embodiments of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals that are of a form that are machine readable.

The PSN can provide circles and communities. A circle can be a list of connected parents. The idea is for a user parent to be able to create personal circles based on purpose of interaction. For instance a parent can create a circle to interact with other parents whose children also attend the same school as my child. The PSN provides a platform the parent to create this circle is to keep him her abreast with activities going on at the school level. Similarly a parent can create a narrower circle with parents whose kids go to 4th grade Ms. Jones s class i.e. the child s class. Here the idea is to focus parent interaction to the class level activities. Though the intent of circles is to interact within a context school class activity note that circles are simply tags and may not be dynamically and strictly defined by the circle attributes. For example a circle may have only two parents which would be a line and not a circle. So a parent for some own valid reason can decide to invite add a parent from a different school School B circle to his school School A circle. Also note that circles are personal lists that only the user can see. For instance in one example Parent A can have a circle named Ms. Amanda 4th Grade and have 5 parents in the circle while Parent B can have a circle with the exact name but with a different set of parents.

In order to encourage parents to network with others in the PSN in one embodiment the system automatically creates circles for every activity they add to their child. In one embodiment by default spouses are added to every system created activity circle. In another embodiment the system will automatically recommend suggest connections for a circle if there is enough meta data to do so the PSN determines a connection of a connection is a likely connection for a parent. In one embodiment the user can delete any circle including system created ones. In one embodiment the user can also change the name of a system created circle.

Besides the system created circles the user can manually create personal circles and invite other parents to it. Recommendations for personal circles parents you may know will be based on the number of common friends you and another parent with whom you still haven t connected have. For instance if there is another parent in the PSN network with whom you haven t connected yet and the two of you have five common friends then that parent will be recommended to you within a personal circle by the PSN.

The PSN can create a community. These are communities represent a formal group. For instance there can be a community created for a school or a class within a school. However a circle and a community are different in the PSN. Circles are personal to each user community is a public entity and is single instance. A community is usually created managed and moderated by users who have the appropriate credentials. For instance a class or a school community can only be created by a teacher of the school. Generally a parent shouldn t be able to create a school or class community. Besides being invited to join a community users can seek to join a community. A community can be open or closed. Any user can readily join an open community whereas membership to closed communities works based on invitation approval.

The PSN can provide a platform for personalized recommendations. One of the features of the PSN is the recommendations it offers to the parents. Broadly there are two categories of recommendations parent recommendations and resource recommendations.

In an embodiment the PSN can include an algorithm of instructions that provides a list of recommended parent connections . The PSN can make these recommendations based on various criteria such as child needs or requirements interests profile match etc. Such recommendations can help the parent to discover relevant and valuable parent connections that the parent would otherwise never be able to find. These recommendations happen at several points in the PSN such as 

The PSN can provide resource and activity center recommendations. Similar to parent recommendations the PSN is also capable to present recommendations on relevant resources throughout the system. These resources would include relevant activity centers helpful parenting materials tips etc.

Here are a few scenarios where the PSN will provide recommendations. In one example parent signs up and provides only the mandatory the child information age gender . The PSN recommends based on location age and gender. Note that the following example will be shown only if the PSN can find any.

1. Parent There are 400 parents similar to you on PSN in Redmond. Click here to find the most relevant ones message can be shown by the PSN. Alternatively show the number of parents by grade 40 Kindergarten 76 1st grade 85 2nd grade. The parents can then click on the group they are interested in to see the list of parents. The parent can then invite the parents. Note if the system is unable to guess which child then the PSN can ask them which of their children attend that grade else the PSN simply ask them to confirm that the child determined by the system attends that grade.

3. Activity centers The PSN can recommend relevant activity centers. In an example parent mentions an activity of interest for a child but no location e.g. an activity circle . 40 at Universal Martial Arts 76 at ABC Karate center. The parent can then click on the group they are interested in to see the list of parents. They can then invite the parents. The PSN ask them to confirm that their child attends that center.

In an example parent accesses their personal circles on the PSN. The PSN can show them who their friends are connected with e.g. There are 400 parents in your Friends network. Invite them to your network In another example 

In an example the PSN can show a message of Many of your connections have read these or a similar message. The PSN can then show the parent a list of parenting materials and tips read clicked by at least a certain number or percentage of connections on the PSN e.g. at least 40 of the connections. In an example the PSN can show a message that is not entire connection based but circle based. The message can be Many of your connections in name of circle have read these The PSN can then show the parent a list of parenting materials and tips read clicked by at least a certain number or percentage of connections in that specific circle PSN e.g. at least 40 of the connections in that circle.

In an example the PSN can determine recommendations on activities and activity centers and can show a parent the number of other parents by activities. For example the PSN can show a parent sub groups by activity centers e.g. Dance 35 at Let s Dance Academy 24 at HipHop Dance School Karate 40 at Universal Martial Arts 76 at ABC Karate center . . . . They can then click on the activity or center to add it to their child s profile.

In an example parent goes into one of their activity circles. The PSN can show the parent who their connections are connected with. For example the PSN can send to a parent s device the message There are 400 parents in your connections network. Invite them to your network .

The PSN can also create a smartfeed to a parent s device which can include PSN generated posts that are personalized to the parent. The end goal of PSN smartfeeds is to constantly improve the personalized value the PSN provides to parents thru intelligently selected recommendations. The smartfeeds from the PSN need not be limited to the parent s connections. The PSN has the ability to discover the exact connections and resources the parent intends to use or may wish to be connected. In an embodiment the smartfeed posts will be posted along with the regular posts from other parents etc. . Broadly there can be at least two categories of smartfeeds from the PSN. One category of smartfeed posts will be tips or tidbits with information relevant to the parent based on the parents activity connections and children related data in the PSN. The other category of smartfeed posts will have tips or tidbits with general information and will be triggered at appropriate times. These will further seek key inputs from the parent in order to provide them back with relevant valuable information. PSN smartfeeds are further explained in the below table.

In an embodiment the PSN does not seek inputs that do not translate value for the parent. Each parent child is different so rather than having a standard template to seek all the inputs upfront to complete the parent child profile the PSN uses smartfeeds to seek the relevant inputs only when it feels that there is a value it can provide to the parent because of that particular input. There are various scenarios under which the inputs are sought and the value the parents get out of the smartfeed.

Another feature of the PSN is recognition badges. Recognition badges can include both achievement badges and appreciation badges. The PSN lets users recognize and appreciate a particular user s achievement or contribution by letting them award recognition badges . Such tokens will be maintained in the user profile and can be made visible to the others users. Examples of PSN recognition badges can include but are not limited to parents awarding their own children parents awarding other their friend s children or connection s children parents awarding other peer parents parents awarding mentors parents awarding teachers teachers awarding parents mentors awarding junior parents the PSN awarding parents for feedback and use of the PSN etc. Badges can be icons stored in the PSN and displayed publicly or privately on the user s profile in the PSN. Example of badges can be champion parent model parent star parent helpful parent and knowledgeable parent.

The PSN can also recognize various skills being shared by parents on the PSN with other parents. Parenting is both an acquired and a developed skill With time parents become more seasoned in parenting. PSN provides a platform to enrich the parenting skills of parents. There are several such experienced parents who can and would like to help the other less experienced parents. PSN provides the ability for seasoned parents to contribute to the community by serving as mentors. PSN provides a system to transform parents to a status of mentor parents in a systematic manner. Over time the PSN community automatically identifies and accredits such parents. Accreditation in the system happens using a combination of PSN badges and user reviews on the parent who can become a mentor. For instance parents can earn credentials by peer nominations mentor nominations badge . On PSN mentor parents will be able to volunteer themselves as mentors for junior parents who can benefit from the experience of those parents and facilitate collaboration for those mentoring discussions. PSN allows parents to easily discover and identify these mentor parents. The PSN can recommend mentor parents to junior parents based on circles. Parents can then connect with the mentors to get guidance on specific or general parenting topics thus gaining instant access to wealth of parenting experience. By enabling parents to recognize their own potential in parenting skills PSN serves as a platform for such mentors to transform into professional parenting experts. PSN provides a platform for parents to enrich their parenting skills and flourish as mentor parents.

The PSN can also recognize parenting experts e.g. with badges. Using its communities and or circles PSN enables both professional parenting experts or any popular parent with a following to provide expert guidance or advice to other parents. The PSN can provide an ability to recognize PSN approved parenting experts to publish parenting articles blogs etc. to the PSN community. Such parenting experts can also funnel their content from external systems into PSN using communication channels e.g. PSN application programming interface API . PSN provides parents the ability to follow or subscribe to such parenting experts. By following the parenting experts parents will automatically receive the parenting expert s articles as posts or feeds. The PSN can also provide the ability for parents to connect with the parenting experts on a personal or direct basis for specific parenting advise.

The PSN also provides the ability to follow a child. A child can look up to or respect another child such a child can be considered a role model. A child who is looked up to can be an older child i.e. a senior child or a peer child. PSN can provide the ability for a child to keep track of the progress of their role models thru their parents. PSN provides the ability for parents to allow their close friends family e.g. connections on PSN to follow their child in a highly controlled and secure manner. The parent is granted total control on what aspects for which they would like to give permission when someone wishes to follow their child. PSN can only allow those people approved by the parent to follow their child.

The PSN includes secure user profiles and data. PSN ensures security when it comes to user profiles e.g. it limits who can see what in a particular user profile. It achieves this in two ways default setting based on the role and connection and further by allowing the user to tweak the security settings themselves. An example of a default setting by role and how users are connected.

The PSN is a leading social network for trust safety as it relates to access by other adults to information about minors. The PSN can operate as an invitation only network. The growth of the network will be through viral building of networks. PSN can leverage existing Facebook network to establish parent to parent connections using child data. PSN can create partnerships with schools activity centers and existing parent networks to seed at various places.

The PSN can lead in privacy efforts. PSN uses global circles activity circles and private circles. Each of these types of circles can have their own privacy rules. For example activity circles can be controlled with a level of access for effective coordination calendar and knowledge sharing for only those involved with that activity. Global trusted circles can be controlled for only trusted family and friends to be engaged more closely. Private circles can be controlled to facilitate best practice sharing while keeping the children s information discrete. The control can be performed by allowing users to set control setting for their circles and in their accounts. The control setting s can be stored in the PSN and accessed by the processing circuitry each time a circle is accessed or requested by a user. In an example a user has complete control over privacy settings.

The PSN can also provide security. The PSN can use at least two factor authentication for web access. The PSN can use salted passwords with encoding. The PSN can use secure HTTP for password access. The PSN can use double login for editing profiles.

The PSN can provide a system and a method to provide for volunteer organization. Teachers parents coaches and leaders at activity centers frequently have to seek volunteer help from the parents for their class needs events games and activities among others. The PSN can provide an easy way for them to perform the task of organizing and manage volunteer s . The PSN can organize volunteers using the calendar event functions of the PSN and can have a schedule which can be stored and processed in the system or . In some examples the volunteer requests may not have a particular schedule e.g. a teacher could publish a class supplies wishlist volunteer request which is an ongoing request and not tied to a specific date or event. A volunteer request function typically has a schedule which can be created modified and stored in the PSN. The volunteer request can require one or more people requests or one or more item requests or a combination of both. Note that each people request or item request could have a schedule for itself. For example a volunteer request could be created by the host for a class birthday party from 4 pm 6 pm by interacting with the PSN through a user device. As part of the volunteer request the host could create three people requests and two item requests in the PSN for a volunteer request as follows 

4. Item request for Large veggie Pizzas No time mentioned in this case since the VR itself has a schedule of 4 5 pm that should be assumed for this request Need 4 in quantity.

There are different types of volunteer request. Examples of different variants of volunteer requests follow. There can be schedule based variants. These apply to both the volunteer request and the individual requests people or item within the volunteer request. Volunteer requests can have different schedules e.g. start and end times due time no explicit schedule. Note that a schedule is required at the volunteer request VR level to support this scenario. If the VR doesn t have a schedule then every request within it should have a schedule.

Volunteer requests can also have confirmation e.g. RSVP based variants. In the birthday party example described above the host would send the Class Birthday Party Celebration invite to the parents of the entire class e.g. a circle associated with the class and would include the volunteer requests inside the same invite. She needs to know who all are attending the party and also needs to know who are signing up for the requests. There could be another invite where she specifically doesn t need to know who all are attending but needs to know who all are signing up for the requests within the VR. The PSN can support the following 

The PSN can also create e.g. an electronic record that is stored and can be interacted with by parent users with their devices and publish VR. The PSN can provide a VR template for a host Teacher PTA Admin parent etc. to create and publish invite a volunteer request VR . There are two types of request 1 people Request for help with one or more tasks. Each task can require one or more people and 2 Items Request for material contributions such as class supplies. The PSN can allow the host should be able to publish and re publish the VR anytime they want.

The PSN can provide launch points for VR creation. Since a VR is mostly tied to a schedule it needs to be attachable to an event. Following are the launch points to create a VR 

a. As a Volunteer Help or Request calendar event category clicking on Volunteer Help or Request Default to No RSVP at the VR level they can change it to RSVP required.

b. As an Event or other non VR calendar event category clicking on Event or Birthday Party etc. Starts like a regular event Default to RSVP required at the VR level they can change it to RSVP required They can inject Volunteer Request section.

c. Quick access inside a class only for a teacher and class admin Need to surface ability for teacher to create a VR more prominently inside a class. Default to No RSVP at the VR level they can change it to RSVP required.

d. Quick access inside school only for PTA admin and school admin Need to surface ability for PTA Admin and School Admin to create a VR more prominently inside a school. Default to No RSVP at the VR level they can change it to RSVP required.

The PSN can provide various access and respond functions for uses when a VR is created. The servers and processors of the PSN can communicate with the user devices. The PSN can allow parents to respond to VR as follows in example a same person can signup for different tasks for the same event e.g. Party setup and Party cleanup. In an example parents can not signup for multiple slots on the same task the parent can signup for only one spot on Party setup. The PSN can provide item functions in the VR for example no limit to number of items and quantity for which they can signup. For example if the same VR has two items drawing boards 5 qty and markers 10 qty the same person can signup for 3 boards and 5 markers or fewer of each.

The PSN can further provide functions for the parent to un volunteer their signups in a VR. Parents should also be able to un volunteer their signups. This ability should be doable at the task or item level. For instance if something came up for a parent who has signed up to help for a particular task in an event and is now unable to fulfill the signup they should be able to do so. This can be done by a parent through their user device interacting with the server memory and processors and the parent selecting the un volunteer option on a VR record.

The PSN can further provide recurring VRs. The parent who create a VR e.g. a VR host can use the PSN to setup a recurring VR. For instance a teacher should be able to setup a VR asking parents to signup to help her at the technology workshop which occurs every Monday throughout the year excluding holidays. A parent volunteer e.g. a recipient should be able to easily signup for multiple dates for a recurring volunteer request.

The PSN can also provide the function of the host parent to send reminders to volunteers of the VR. In an example the host can sent flags to resend or remind the recipient volunteers. A VR reminder should do at least two things. First for the parents who haven t signed up the PSN will send reminder to signup and list or focus on the pending open available items tasks. Second for the parents who have signed up e.g. for at least one item or task send a reminder about their signup which can include the date time and task. The PSN can also provide an auto reminder option. The host parent can set reminders in the PSN at the VR event level. An example VR reminder can state If tasks items still pending send reminder xx days before start . The PSN can set a default reminder to day s e.g. to 2 days before the event day. The PSN can set a reminder email needs to be sent xx days before event start to all the recipients as described below in the email notifications section.

The PSN can provide parents the functions to commenting on VR s . The function of commenting on the VR can be similar to commenting on an event.

The PSN can also provide notifications to parents associated with a VR. Examples of various notifications related to the VRs can include in app notifications and email notifications. In app notification can include a VR notification post that can be sent to the recipients. This function can be similar to the event invite however an in app notification should include summary of the VR. In app notification can include a signup notification post which can include an aggregated post sent e.g. since last seen by the parent only to the host parent notifying them of the signups for the VR. The post should also show the summary of the pending tasks items. This should include the instance when someone unvolunteers as well.

Email notification can be sent to the recipients parents associated with the VR whenever the host sends or reminds. Reminder emails should automatically be sent by the PSN to a corresponding email depending on whether the recipient has already signed up or not in the PSN. For the parents who haven t signed up for anything or when the host has the PSN send the email the first time the email should show the VR details including the list of tasks items and quantities. When a parent selects e.g. clicks on the signup against any of the tasks should deep link to the signup confirmation page detail page within the app. For the parents who have signed up for at least one item or task the email should serve as a reminder email about their signup it should detail the tasks items they have signed up for along with the specific schedule. The subject of the email should be different between the original invite vs Reminder email.

The PSN can also create and send a signup notification email. Such an email can be similar to a notification post. The PSN can create and send a daily email that shows the summary of the signups and pending tasks items since the last email was sent to the host parent. Such an email can include the instances when someone unvolunteers as well.

Certain systems apparatus applications or processes are described herein as including a number of modules engines or mechanisms. A module or a mechanism may be a unit of distinct functionality that can provide information to and receive information from other modules. An engine also may be a unit of distinct functionality that can provide information to and receive information from other modules engines or mechanisms which can be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Engines may also initiate communication with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information . The modules or engines may be implemented as hardware circuitry optical components single or multi processor circuits memory circuits software program modules and objects firmware and combinations thereof as appropriate for particular implementations of various embodiments.

Thus methods and systems for electronic communication management have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The processes methods or algorithms disclosed herein may be deliverable to implement by a processing device controller computer which may include any existing programmable electronic control unit or dedicated electronic control unit or circuitry. Similarly the processes methods or algorithms may be stored as data and instructions executable by circuitry a processor a controller or computer in many forms including but not limited to information permanently stored on non writable storage media such as ROM devices and information alterably stored on writeable storage media such as floppy disks magnetic tapes CDs RAM devices and other magnetic and optical media. The processes methods or algorithms may also be implemented in a software executable object. Alternatively the processes methods or algorithms may be embodied in whole or in part using suitable hardware components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs state machines controllers or other hardware components or devices or a combination of hardware software and firmware components. It will be recognized that when software instructions are loaded into a controller processor or circuitry then such structures are specific dedicated machines to execute the loaded instructions. Moreover the term processor need not be limited to a single integrated circuit and may be distributed over a plurality of circuits or circuitry that share data instructions or are in electrical communication with each other.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms encompassed by the claims. The words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. As previously described the features of various embodiments may be combined to form further embodiments of the invention that may not be explicitly described or illustrated. While various embodiments could have been described as providing advantages or being preferred over other embodiments or prior art implementations with respect to one or more desired characteristics those of ordinary skill in the art recognize that one or more features or characteristics may be compromised to achieve desired overall system attributes which depend on the specific application and implementation. These attributes may include but are not limited to cost strength durability life cycle cost marketability appearance packaging size serviceability weight manufacturability ease of assembly etc. As such embodiments described as less desirable than other embodiments or prior art implementations with respect to one or more characteristics are not outside the scope of the disclosure and may be desirable for particular applications.

