---

title: Water vessel with integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp
abstract: An apparatus for transferring assets to and from a water vessel. A water vessel having an integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp for transferring, launching and recovering assets such as wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicles. The integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp is configurable into different orientations to accommodate for different operational requirements, such as ship-to-water transfers, ship-to-ship transfers, or ship-to-dock transfers. The integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp is also configurable into a stowage orientation in which the ramp is folded and stored when not deployed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376175&OS=09376175&RS=09376175
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of The Navy
number: 09376175
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140501
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an apparatus for transferring assets to and from a water vessel more particularly a water vessel having an integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp for transferring launching and recovering assets such as wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicles air cushion vehicles or like vehicles the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp configurable into different orientations to accommodate for different operational requirements.

Assets such as wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicles or air cushioned vehicles are routinely launched and recovered from water vessels. These assets are also routinely transferred to and from sea bases or docks to water vessels. Ramps are employed to facilitate the transfer of assets as outlined above. A simple ramp may be a plank of a desired material that is connected to a deck of the water vessel. The ramp is positioned to extend from its water vessel to another vessel a dock or the open water.

There is always a need to increase the capabilities and functionality of ramps. More particularly there is always a need to increase the ease simplicity and efficiency of using a ramp. Additionally there is always a need to improve multifunctional capabilities of ramps that allows them to operate in various different asset transfer scenarios. With increased multifunctional capabilities there is also a need for increased stability which also improves the safety associated with the use of the ramp. Thus it is desired to have a ramp that operates with increased ease simplicity and efficiency that has multifunctional capabilities enabling ship to sea ship to ship or other cargo transfer scenarios.

In one aspect the invention is a water vessel having an integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp. In this aspect the water vessel has a hull having a bow a stern and a deck at the stern end of the hull. The integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly having a bulb attached at the stern end of the hull for providing an upward force F at the stern of the hull. According to the invention the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp includes a ramp that is configurable into a plurality of orientations including a stowage orientation a water based launch and recovery orientation and a ship to ship dock transfer orientation. The ramp has a top edge defining a top edge of the ramp a bottom edge defining a bottom edge and a free end of the ramp. The ramp also includes a folding axis between the top edge and the bottom edge defining an axis about which the ramp folds. The ramp also has a first lateral edge defining a first outer edge of the ramp and a second lateral edge defining a second outer edge of the ramp wherein each of the first and second lateral edges extend from the top edge portion to the bottom edge portion. The ramp further includes a bottom segment extending from the bottom edge to the folding axis and a top segment extending from the top edge to the folding axis. In this aspect the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp further includes a slidably mounted buoyancy float slidable along the ramp between a first location at about the bottom edge and a plurality of other locations along the bottom segment of the ramp.

As outlined below the water vessel and the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly may be used for transferring assets in a variety of asset transfer scenarios. The assets may be wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicles or air cushioned vehicles. It should be noted that air cushioned vehicles as referred to regarding the instant invention refers to smaller lightweight vehicles. According to a particular embodiment the assets may be expeditionary fighting vehicles EFVs or assault amphibious vehicles AAVs . The integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly is configurable to operate in the different asset transfer scenarios. Depending on the orientation of the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly and the asset transfer scenario the assets are launched recovered or transferred by being powered along the surface of the ramp.

In addition to providing the physical ability to transfer assets the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly is designed to that it does not adversely affect the hydrodynamics of the water vessel . Typically the addition of a large structure such as a ramp would have hydrodynamic drawbacks due to its size and the accompanying water resistance affecting the top end speed of the vessel. However as outlined below the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly particularly the bulb portion contributes to the hydrodynamic efficiency of the water vessel .

The ramp may be attached to the deck via a connection plate . As outlined below with respect to the connection plate may be journaled to pivot at an angle of rotation with respect to the astern direction. This motion pivots the entire ramp. The connection plate may be journaled on a bearing facilitating the pivotal motion with respect to the astern direction. also shows pillars which may be positioned on the connection plate . As outlined below the pillars are mounted to rotate along with the ramp .

As shown the ramp has a top edge defining the top edge of the ramp and a bottom edge defining the bottom edge and a free end of the ramp . also shows a folding axis between the top edge and the bottom edge defining an axis about which the ramp folds. Known connectors such as hinges may be employed along the folding axis to facilitate the folding function of the ramp which is further outlined below.

According to an embodiment of the invention the buoyancy float has a first gripper arm and a second gripper arm . As shown the first gripper arm wraps around the first lateral edge of the ramp and the second gripper arm wraps around the second lateral edge of the ramp . Because of the manner in which the first and second gripper arms wrap around the respective first and second lateral edges the buoyancy float is slidably maintained on the ramp . The first and second gripper arms facilitate the sliding along the ramp and also the locking of the ramp at a desired location. Known sliding and locking means may be employed to facilitate these functions. For example the first and second gripper arms may be made form a material that slides along the ramp but creates a strong enough frictional force with the ramp so that the buoyancy float is stationary when it is positioned in a desired location along the ramp. Alternatively the gripper arms may include locking devices that press down on the ramp to lock buoyancy float in a desired location. Alternatively the gripper arms may have wheels that allow the buoyancy float to roll along the ramp to any desired location. The wheels may include a locking mechanism that locks them in position when the buoyancy float is moved to a desired location.

According to the invention the ramp is configurable into a plurality of orientations. These different orientations include a water based launch and recovery orientation a ship to ship dock transfer orientation and a stowage orientation. The former two orientations allow the ramp to perform properly in different asset transfer scenarios. The stowage orientation defines an orientation in which the ramp may be safely stored when the ramp is not being deployed. In the illustration of the ramp is configured in a water based launch and recovery orientation for transferring assets from the open water to the water vessel and vice versa. As stated above according to an embodiment of the invention the assets may be wheeled or tracked which in the orientation may be self powered up and down the ramp during launching and recovery operations. The assets may also be air cushioned vehicles which as stated above are smaller lightweight air cushioned vehicles with dimensions that allow them to be moved up and down the ramp . Typically because of the slope of the ramp air cushioned vehicles of this type would require assistance when being moved up the ramp .

The attachment assembly which may be a hinge is used to adjust the angle of inclination of the ramp . also shows attachment assembly which is located along the folding axis for folding the bottom and top segments . The attachment assembly may for example be hinges extending along the folding axis . It should be noted that in the orientation the bottom segment is aligned with the top segment forming a single continuous linear upper surface.

In the water based launch and recovery orientation because the ramp is at an angle of inclination the ramp is supported on the upper face of the support wall . As shown an under surface of the top segment rests on the upper face of support wall which has a slight downward slope. Thus when the ramp is being used for launching and retrieving assets the support wall supports the ramp. As stated above the assets may be wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicle which are self powered up and down the ramp during launching and recovery operations. The assets may also be air cushioned vehicles as outlined above. As stated above because of its location the bulb provides an upward force E at the stern which provides additional stability during launching and recovery operations.

As shown in in the ship to ship dock transfer orientation the ramp is pivotally attached to the deck at the stern at an angle of rotation with respect to the astern direction. The astern direction is represented by the direction line R. The rotation angle indicates that the ramp may be rotated in to the left or to the right of the direction line R. According to an embodiment of the invention 0

As shown in the ramp is pivoted at a rotation angle and extends over to another vessel or deck represented by reference numeral . The free end of the ramp rests on the deck of the other water vessel or a dock . As shown the buoyancy float is now positioned at a central area of the ramp at about the folding axis where it does not obstruct the transfer of assets.

Referring to in operation the water vessel pulls alongside the water vessel or dock . The ramp is pivoted at a rotation angle with the free end of the ramp resting on the vessel or dock . In this orientation the ramp may not be inclined. Thus the angle of inclination may be about 0 . However as stated above the angle of inclination is defined by the operation. Thus in the ship to ship dock transfer orientation shown in the inclination is determined by the relative heights of the ends of the ramp and . Thus if the vessel or dock is vertically lower than the water vessel the ramp slopes downwards. Alternatively if the vessel or dock is vertically higher than the water vessel the ramp slopes upwards.

When the ramp is in the position shown in the transfer of assets may take place. It should be noted that in the orientation regardless of the angle of inclination or the rotation angle the bottom segment is aligned with the top segment forming a single continuous upper surface. Assets may be transferred along this surface from the water vessel to the other vessel or dock or assets may be transferred from the dock vessel to the water vessel . As shown in this orientation the buoyancy float is moved to the central area where it does not hamper operations. The assets may be wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicles which may be driven back and forth across the ramp. The assets may also be air cushioned vehicles as described above. According to an embodiment of the invention the vessel may be a mobile landing platform MLP .

As opposed to the side by side relationship shown in for transferring assets between the water vessel and another vessel or dock it is within the prevue of this invention for the asset transfer to be carried out with the water vessel in a head on orientation with respect to the other vessel or dock . is an exemplary top view of an integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp attached to the stern of a water vessel with the ramp in a head on ship to ship dock transfer orientation according to an embodiment of the invention. illustrates an asset transfer scenario similar to that of i.e. the water vessel with the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly is positioned to transfer assets between the water vessel and another water vessel or dock . The orientation shown in accommodates for scenarios in which the water vessel is positioned head on with respect to the dock or the loading deck of the other vessel . According to this embodiment the ramp is not pivoted or slewed so the rotation angle is about 0 . As outlined above the assets may be wheeled or tracked amphibious vehicles or air cushioned vehicles. The vessel may be an MLP.

In the stowage orientation the folding axis is vertically higher than all other parts of the ramp. Also the buoyancy float is located at or about the bottom edge of the ramp . As shown the buoyancy float contacts and is supported on the upper face of the support wall . By physically contacting and supporting the buoyancy float which is attached to the ramp the bulb provides stability to the ramp in the stowed orientation.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example as illustrated the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly is centrally located at the stern . However the integrated buoyancy bulb and stern ramp assembly may also be offset either portside or starboard if desired. Additionally although the disclosure states that the ramp is connected to an deck there may be embodiments in which the hull has multiple decks and the ramp may be connected to any of the multiple decks if desired. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

