---

title: Imaging doppler lidar for wind turbine wake profiling
abstract: An imaging Doppler lidar (IDL) enables the measurement of the velocity distribution of a large volume, in parallel, and at high spatial resolution in the wake of a wind turbine. Because the IDL is non-scanning, it can be orders of magnitude faster than conventional coherent lidar approaches. Scattering can be obtained from naturally occurring aerosol particles. Furthermore, the wind velocity can be measured directly from Doppler shifts of the laser light, so the measurement can be accomplished at large standoff and at wide fields-of-view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09188677&OS=09188677&RS=09188677
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09188677
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140416
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 817 995 filed May 1 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to wind velocity measurements and in particular to an imaging Doppler lidar for wind velocity profiling in a wind turbine wake.

Wind energy applications require accurate measurement of wind speed and turbulence. For example optimizing the design and operation of wind farms requires understanding the complex interaction between atmospheric boundary layer flow and wind turbines. In particular understanding wind turbine wakes is important for optimizing power output and minimizing fatigue loads on the turbine blades especially within wind farms.

Wind measurements for wind energy applications have been obtained mainly with cup anemometers. However cup anemometers cannot measure wind direction and require the erection of tall towers that can disturb wake flow. Therefore there is a need for remote sensing instruments that can perform wind speed measurements without affecting the flow. Light detection and ranging lidar systems are now being deployed to measure the velocity of the inflow and the wake of wind turbines.

A Doppler lidar is a remote sensing instrument that measures wind velocity through the evaluation of the Doppler shift of a laser beam emitted into the atmosphere and backscattered from aerosol particles e.g. dust droplets in the atmosphere. The Doppler lidar measures the velocity component along the line of sight of the laser beam derived from the frequency difference between the emitted and backscattered signals. This is often done coherently by observing the heterodyne signal between the laser light and what is returned from the aerosol. Velocity measurements at locations along the beam can be performed by simply staring the beam along a fixed direction. Alternatively a two dimensional measurement can be performed by raster scanning a highly collimated laser beam over the scene of interest. The range or distance at which the measurement is made can be controlled by focusing the laser beam or from the signal round trip time of flight.

Therefore a need remains for a remote sensing lidar that can measure high speed vector wind velocities with good range resolution in the wake of a wind turbine.

The present invention is directed to an imaging Doppler lidar IDL comprising a laser transmitter that provides a pulsed narrow linewidth laser light to flood illuminate a scene comprising aerosol particles moving at a velocity a frequency discriminator for measuring the Doppler frequency shift of laser light scattered from the moving aerosol particles and at least one imaging receiver for detecting the scattered laser light and having a variable gate delay at the repetition frequency of the laser transmitter for range gating the detected scattered laser light. The laser transmitter preferably has a repetition rate of greater than 1 Hz and energy per pulse of greater than 10 mJ. The laser light preferably has a pulse width of less than 10 nanoseconds a wavelength of between 300 and 1500 nanometers and a linewidth of less than 200 MHz. For example the laser can comprise a Q switched solid state laser such as a Nd YAG Er YAG Er glass or Ho YAG laser. The frequency discriminator preferably can discriminate a Doppler shift of the scattered laser light of less than 100 MHz. The frequency discriminator can comprise a single edge spectral absorption filter such as a gas absorption cell that provides a wide field of view for imaging. The imaging receiver preferably has a gate width of less than 10 ns and can be on other than a line of sight with the laser transmitter. The receiver preferably comprises a focal plane array. Three or more receivers can provide a three dimensional vector velocity image of the scene. The scene can be a wind wake downstream from a wind turbine.

The invention enables the measurement of the velocity distribution of a large volume in parallel and at high spatial resolution. High spatial resolution is afforded by the pulsed laser transmitter together with a gated imaging receiver. The invention enables the measurement of small scale features within high velocity flow fields over relatively large volumes up close to turbine blades. Scattering can be obtained from naturally occurring aerosol particles eliminating the necessity of seedling large volumes with artificial aerosols as is usually the practice in wind tunnels. Furthermore the wind velocity is measured directly from Doppler shifts of the laser light so the measurement can be accomplished at large standoff and at wide fields of view. Because the IDL is non scanning it can measure the velocity distribution of a large area in parallel and can be much faster than conventional coherent lidar scanning approaches. A three dimensional image of the velocity distribution with high spatial resolution enables direct comparison with flow modeling.

The present invention is directed to an imaging Doppler lidar IDL system for the measurement of wind velocity for a variety of potential applications including the measurement of complex flow dynamics from large scale power generating wind turbines. shows a schematic illustration of the imaging Doppler lidar system of the present invention. The IDL comprises a pulsed narrow linewidth laser transmitter to flood illuminate a scene and a time gated imaging receiver to provide range resolution and an image of the velocity field in a measurement plane of the scene . The velocity can be determined for each pixel in the image from the Doppler frequency shift of the scattered laser light that can be measured through a frequency discriminator . The short optical pulses that illuminate the scene and the precise time of flight measurements of the pulse reflections from aerosols in the scene enable accurate distance information that provides the third spatial dimension normally absent when images are recorded using only ambient reflected light.

The laser transmitter should have an adequate energy per pulse to provide sufficient signal to noise at the receiver a high repetition rate to capture transient formations in the flow and a large enough tuning range to locate a strong absorption feature of the frequency discriminating cell. While higher pulse energy is generally desirable for increasing the minimum detectable wind velocity simulations indicate single pulse energies of order 100 mJ are reasonable. The pulse repetition frequency should be above about 10 Hz to avoid washing out high velocity flow patterns but can be much higher when integrating signal directly on an intensified charged coupled device ICCD camera. The laser pulse preferably has a pulse width of order 1 ns for sub meter range resolution. The range resolution is determined from the mean of the pulse width and the receiver camera gate time multiplied by the speed of light. Although the beam quality of the laser is not critical the far field pattern of the laser must be stable and relatively uniform. The laser light preferably has a wavelength of between 300 and 1500 nanometers and a narrow linewidth no more than 200 MHz to enable high resolution of small Doppler shifts. For example the laser can comprise a Q switched solid state laser such as a Nd YAG Er YAG Er glass or Ho YAG laser.

The imaging receiver preferably comprises a time gated focal plane array FPA that uses independent time of flight measurements at every pixel to acquire distance information for aerosols in the scene. For example the FPA can have a gate width of about 1 ns a frame rate matching the laser repetition frequency a sensor size of greater than 256 256 pixels and a pixel size of less than 25 microns. The gate turn on delay can be varied from 1 100 ns allowing on the fly variation of the measurement plane. Volumetric vector velocity images can therefore be measured without employing beam steering optics. The system preferably has adequate sensitivity to be used with natural aerosol concentrations and cross sections.

The frequency discriminator can be a single edge spectral absorption filter that preferably has a line width and absorption depth compatible with the velocity range of interest. The frequency discriminator should have a sufficiently large field of view and have a relatively short length and large diameter. For example for 532 nm laser emission an iodine absorption cell can be used as the frequency discriminator. An iodine absorption cell is basically an evacuated glass container with a controlled vapor pressure of iodine gas within. The iodine concentration determines the absorption per unit length at the laser wavelength. The iodine absorption spectrum is a rich forest of deep very narrow lines starting at about 480 nm and ending near 640 nm. The absorption spectrum provides a very stable reference spectrum superimposed on the scattered laser light being observed.

The present invention has been described as an imaging Doppler lidar. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

