---

title: Pixelated light shutter mechanisms for improving contrast between computer-generated images and an ambient visible environment
abstract: Augmented reality systems and associated methods, computer-readable media, techniques, and methodologies for improving contrast between projected or emitted computer-generated images and ambient light of a visible real-world environment are disclosed. Devices that incorporate such augmented reality systems are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576398&OS=09576398&RS=09576398
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09576398
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140814
---
Near eye displays may be broadly categorized into two types virtual reality displays and augmented reality displays. A virtual reality near eye system may include a wearable device e.g. a head mounted display that includes display optics such as lenses that are opaque to ambient light from the environment. Certain virtual reality near eye systems may include two displays e.g. one for each eye of a user that project respective computer generated images that are sized and focused for viewing by both eyes of the user. Other virtual reality near eye systems may include a single display that projects a single computer generated image that is visible to both eyes.

An augmented reality near eye system may include a wearable device with display optics that are substantially transparent to ambient light. Such display optics may include for example narrow band reflectors partial reflectors holographic reflectors or other display optics that operate to redirect projected light into a user s eye while permitting a substantial portion of ambient light to pass through as well. This produces the effect of having the projected image appear as an overlay on a real world environment.

This disclosure relates to among other things augmented reality systems and associated methods computer readable media techniques and methodologies for improving contrast between projected or emitted computer generated images and ambient light of a visible real world environment. This disclosure further relates to devices that incorporate such augmented reality systems.

Augmented reality near eye systems differ from virtual reality near eye systems by providing display optics that are capable of displaying computer generated images to a user while also being substantially transparent to incoming ambient light so as to allow the user to see and interact with a real world visible environment. While it may be possible through the use of cameras to project real world images onto display surfaces of a virtual reality near eye system such as virtual reality goggles such a system has inherent drawbacks as compared to augmented reality near eye systems. One such drawback is that battery power is required to generate the real world camera images and thus if power runs out complete opacity results.

A drawback of augmented reality near eye systems is that light that forms the computer generated images competes for brightness with incoming ambient light. For example in the case of computer generated text the text should appear brighter or darker than the ambient surroundings in order to be visible to the user. The human eye perceives brightness approximately logarithmically over a moderate range of brightness levels. The human eye s perception of brightness more closely approximates a power law over a wider range of brightness levels. Thus the brightness that a computer generated image needs to have in order to exceed the brightness of the surroundings will increase multiplicatively with the brightness of the surroundings.

For example in a 10 lux room a 30 nit image may be visible. A lux is the International System of Units SI unit of luminous emittance measures luminous flux per unit area and is equivalent to one lumen m. A nit is a measure of luminous intensity and is equivalent to one candela m. One lumen is equivalent to one candela steradian where a steradian is the SI unit of a solid angle. In a much brighter ambient environment such as an 80 k lux outdoor environment a 240 k nit image would be needed to produce equal visibility of the image in relation to the ambient light. Since brightness scales roughly linearly with power a significant amount of power would be needed to generate images that are visible in high lux environments such as an outdoor environment.

Example embodiments of the disclosure include augmented reality systems that address this and other drawbacks by providing a light shutter that includes shutter elements that are selectively and independently controlled to modulate the amount of ambient light that reaches a user s eye. The shutter elements may be individually controllable by a computer processor between a closed state in which a corresponding portion of the ambient light is restricted or blocked from passing through the light shutter and an open state in which a corresponding portion of the ambient is allowed to pass through the light shutter.

The closed state of a shutter element may refer to a display state that is substantially opaque to incident light and the open state may refer to a display state that is substantially transmissive to incident light. Depending on the type of light shutter the open and closed states of a shutter element may be achieved in any of a variety of ways. For example in the case of a micro electro mechanical system MEMS shutter array each shutter element may be a blocker e.g. a thin flap of polysilicon that can be physically and or electronically actuated to move into or out of a plane of the shutter to either block ambient light from passing through a corresponding aperture or to allow ambient light to pass through the corresponding aperture. As another example in the case of a shutter mode electrophoretic display charged particles contained within a microcapsule may be caused to migrate via application of an electric field between opposing surfaces of the microcapsule to transition the microcapsule from a substantially opaque state to a light transmissive state.

While example types of light shutters are described above it should be appreciated that the light shutter may employ any suitable mechanism for producing electro optic effects to modulate the transmission of light. Other example types of light shutters that may be used in connection with augmented reality systems disclosed herein include without limitation a monochrome matrix twisted nematic liquid crystal display LCD an array of electrowetting pixel elements a pixelated electrochromic element and so forth. A pixelated electrochromic element may include an electrochromic material positioned between transparent electrodes. A color or state of the electrochromic material may be altered e.g. between a transparent state and an opaque state by varying an amount of voltage or current applied to the material.

An augmented reality system in accordance with an example embodiment of the disclosure may include a computer processor for generating image signals corresponding to a computer generated image to be displayed. The image signals may be for example voltage signals current signals or the like. The augmented reality system may also include a light source that emits light one or more imaging elements that receive the image signals via electronic circuitry and that modulate the emitted light based on the image signals to generate modulated light and one or more optical elements that modify one or more transmission characteristics of the modulated light to produce projected light. The projected light may then be reflected off of a display surface such that the reflected light is directed into a user s eye. The light source and the imaging elements described above may form part of any suitable non emissive display such as for example a backlit liquid crystal display LCD . For example the light source may include one or more light emitting diode LED backlights and the imaging elements may include an LCD display panel. In other example embodiments the light source and imaging elements may be an organic light emitting diode OLED display that includes electroluminescent layer s that emit light when supplied with a current. In certain example embodiments one or more of the light source the electronic circuitry the imaging element s and or the optical element s may be described herein as a projector that projects light onto a display surface.

An augmented reality system in accordance with another example embodiment of the disclosure may include a computer processor for generating image signals corresponding to a computer generated image to be displayed. The image signals may be for example voltage signals current signals or the like. The augmented reality system may also include a light source that receives the image signals via electronic circuitry and that emits light based on the image signals. The intensity of the emitted light may be proportional to an intensity of the image signals e.g. an amount of current . The emitted light may then be passed through a display surface or reflected off of the display surface such that the light is directed into a user s eye. The light source and optionally the electronic circuitry may form part of any suitable emissive display such as for example an OLED display.

An augmented reality system in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure such as one that incorporates an emissive display or a non emissive display may include a light shutter having multiple shutter elements that are independently controllable by a computer processor of the augmented reality system to modulate an amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter. The light shutter may be positioned in relation to the display surface such that ambient light that passes through a particular portion of the light shutter reaches a corresponding portion of the display surface and is transmitted through the display surface to a user s eye. For example the light shutter may be coaxially positioned with respect to the display surface. More specifically in certain example embodiments the light shutter may be positioned adjacent to a side of the display surface that receives ambient light which in turn opposes a side of the display surface that reflects projected light corresponding to a computer generated image or from which light corresponding to the computer generated image is emitted.

In certain example embodiments the computer processor may control one or more shutter elements to at least partially restrict the amount of ambient light that passes through corresponding portions of the light shutter and that reaches corresponding portions of the display surface displaying at least a portion of a computer generated image. For example the computer processor may generate signals that cause the one or more shutter elements to transition to a closed state that is substantially opaque to the ambient light. The computer processor may also control one or more other shutter elements to allow the ambient light to pass through corresponding portions of the light shutter and reach corresponding portions of the display surface such that the ambient light is transmitted through those portions of the display surface to the user s eye.

In certain example embodiments the computer processor may also selectively control one or more shutter elements to at least partially restrict the amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter and that reaches one or more portions of the display surface that are not displaying the computer generated image but which are adjacent to an area of the display surface which is displaying the computer generated image. In certain example embodiments the one or more portions of the display surface that are not displaying the computer generated image and through which ambient light transmission is restricted may substantially surround or encompass the area of the display surface that is displaying the image. A boundary of these one or more portions of the display surface may be slightly larger than a boundary of the area of the display surface displaying the computer generated image so as to produce a local dimming effect that provides increased contrast between the computer generated image and a portion of the ambient environment immediately adjacent to the computer generated image without compromising the visibility of other portions of the ambient environment.

In certain example embodiments a shutter element of the light shutter may modulate the amount of ambient light that passes through a single pixel corresponding to the shutter element. In other example embodiments a shutter element of the light shutter may modulate the amount of ambient light that passes through multiple corresponding pixels. In still other example embodiments multiple shutter elements may collectively modulate an amount of ambient light that passes through a single corresponding pixel.

In addition in those example embodiments in which the light shutter includes shutter elements that transition between closed states in which ambient light is substantially blocked thereby producing black pixels and open states in which ambient light is substantially allowed to pass through thereby producing white pixels a grayscale effect may be produced in various ways. For example a grayscale effect may be achieved may maintaining or transitioning certain shutter elements to a closed state and maintaining or transitioning certain other shutter elements to an open state. As another example a grayscale effect may additionally or alternatively be achieved using a time division multiplexing technique in which one or more shutter elements are transitioned between the closed state and the open state at one or more time intervals. The grayscale level may be modulated by controlling the amount of time the shutter elements remain in the closed state versus the open state. As yet another example a grayscale effect may be achieved by adjusting various shutter elements to different levels of transparency or opacity to ambient light.

Further in certain example embodiments an ambient light sensor image sensor e.g. camera or the like may be provided as part of the augmented reality system. The sensor may detect an intensity of ambient light passing through various portions of the light shutter and or the display surface. The computer processor may programmatically control the shutter elements of the light shutter based on sensor data indicating ambient light intensity to modulate the amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter and that reaches the display surface. For example the computer processor may determine that ambient light of a particularly high intensity e.g. intensity above a threshold value is being transmitted through a particular portion of the display surface and may control one or more shutter elements to restrict the amount of ambient light that passes through a portion of the light shutter that corresponds to the particular portion of the display surface. In this manner particularly high intensities of ambient light may be diminished thereby improving visibility of the computer generated image and the overall user experience.

In certain example embodiments a light shutter in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may exhibit high transmission in the open state such that the amount of ambient light passed through the light shutter and transmitted through the display surface is sufficient in low light conditions. The light shutter may further exhibit a high extinction coefficient in the closed state so as to be substantially opaque to ambient light. In addition in certain example embodiments transmission characteristics of the light shutter may be unaffected by the polarization of the light. Light shutters that utilize polarizers may result in loss of ambient light. Thus in certain example embodiments a light shutter that allows light of all polarizations to pass through may be used. In certain other example embodiments however incoming ambient light may be polarized by for example an optical filter e.g. a polarizing beam splitter or the like provided as part of the light shutter. More specifically ambient light of a particular polarity may be permitted to pass through the light shutter while ambient light of other polarities may be prevented from passing through. The polarity of the ambient light that is permitted to pass through the light shutter may differ from the polarity of light forming a computer generated image that is displayed on a display surface.

The device may include a transparent display surface that reflects projected light corresponding to an image into a viewer s eye or that allows emitted light corresponding to the image to pass through to the viewer s eye. The transparent display surface may be least partially transparent to ambient light so as to provide the appearance that the image is overlaid on the visible ambient environment.

In certain example embodiments a light shutter not shown may include shutter elements that are independently controllable to modulate the amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter to reach the display surface . Certain shutter elements may be in a closed state such that ambient light is at least partially restricted from passing through a portion of the light shutter to reach a corresponding portion of the display surface . An example portion of the display surface that does not receive ambient light is represented in as the opaque partially opaque area . In certain example embodiments the opaque area may at least partially surround the image to provide a local dimming effect as described above.

Example embodiments of the disclosure provide a number of advantages or technical effects. For example augmented reality systems in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure provide improved contrast between a projected or emitted computer generated image and an ambient environment through independent control of shutter elements of a light shutter to selectively modulate the amount of ambient that passes through corresponding portions of the light shutter to reach corresponding portions of a display surface. Further in certain example embodiments ambient light may be prevented from reaching portions of the display surface adjacent to an area displaying a computer generated image thereby providing a local dimming effect without compromising the visibility of the ambient environment. In addition in certain example embodiments of the disclosure high intensity ambient light may be detected at a particular portion of the display surface and one or more shutter elements of a light shutter may be controlled to restrict the amount of ambient light reaching that particular portion of the display surface. It should be appreciated that the above examples of advantages and or technical effects of example embodiments of the disclosure are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described above. The above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the scope of this disclosure and are not intended to be limiting in any way. Accordingly variations modifications and equivalents of embodiments disclosed herein are also within the scope of this disclosure. The above described embodiments and additional and or alternative embodiments of the disclosure will be described in detail hereinafter through reference to the accompanying drawings.

In certain example embodiments the light source and the imaging elements may form part of a non emissive display such as for example a backlit liquid crystal display LCD . Example LCD displays include without limitation thin film transistor TFT LCDs active matrix LCDs passive matrix LCDs twisted nematic LCDs in plane switching LCDs and so forth. The light source may be any suitable light source such as for example a cold cathode fluorescence lamp CCFL a white light emitting diode LED an RGB LED or the like. The imaging elements may include for example one or more pixel elements such as LCD pixels where each LCD pixel may include a layer of liquid crystal molecules aligned between two transparent electrodes and two polarizing filters having axes of transmission that are perpendicular to each other. It should be appreciated that the examples for the light source and the imaging elements discussed above are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

In certain other example embodiments of the disclosure the system may incorporate an emissive display as opposed to or in addition to a non emissive display. For example the system may include one or more emissive layers that operate as a light source by emitting light in response to receipt of image signals. In those example embodiments in which the system incorporates an emissive display the system may similarly include a computer processor for generating image signals corresponding to the computer generated image to be displayed. The image signals may be for example voltage signals current signals or the like. The emissive layer s may receive the image signals via electronic circuitry not shown and emit light based on the image signals. The intensity of the emitted light may be proportional to an intensity of the image signals e.g. an amount of current . The emitted light may then be passed through the display surface or reflected off of the display surface depending on the position of the emissive display relative to the display surface such that the emitted light representing the image is directed into a user s eye.

The emissive display may include any suitable display such as an OLED display an electrochemical display ECD a plasma display panel PDP an LED display an electroluminescent display ELD a vacuum fluorescent display VFD a surface conduction electronic emitter display SED a field emission display FED a cathode ray tube CRT or the like. In those example embodiments in which the emissive display is an OLED display the display may be a top emitting or bottom emitting OLED display.

An OLED display in accordance with one or more example embodiments of the disclosure may include a substrate having an anode disposed thereon a conductive layer deposited on the anode one or more emissive layers deposited on the conductive layer and a cathode disposed on the one or more emissive layers . When an image signal is provided to the OLED display e.g. an electrical current is supplied the electrical current flows from the cathode to the anode causing the anode to remove electrons from the conductive layer which is the equivalent to movement of electron holes to the conductive layer . Electrons in the emissive layer s then occupy electron holes at an interface between the two layers causing the electrons to release energy in the form of light photons emitted by the emissive layer s . While an OLED display has been described in some detail above it should be appreciated that any suitable emissive display may be used.

The system whether it incorporates an emissive display or a non emissive display may include a light shutter . The light shutter may be a pixelated light shutter having multiple shutter elements not shown that are independently controllable by a computer processor of the system to modulate an amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter . The ambient light may be generated by an ambient light source . The light shutter may be positioned in relation to the display surface such that ambient light that passes through a particular portion of the light shutter reaches a corresponding portion of the display surface and is transmitted through the display surface to a user s eye. While the light shutter is depicted in as being positioned in a coaxial manner with respect to the display surface it should be appreciated that any configuration that allows the light shutter to modulate the amount of ambient light reaching the display surface is suitable.

In certain example embodiments the computer processor may control one or more shutter elements to at least partially restrict the amount of ambient light that passes through corresponding portions of the light shutter and that reaches corresponding portions of the display surface at which at least a portion of a computer generated image is displayed. The computer processor may also control one or more other shutter elements to allow the ambient light to pass through corresponding portions of the light shutter and reach corresponding portions of the display surface such that the ambient light is transmitted through those portions of the display surface to the user s eye. Further as previously noted the computer processor may also selectively control one or more shutter elements to at least partially restrict the amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter and that reaches one or more portions of the display surface at which the computer generated image is not being displayed but which are adjacent to an area of the display surface at which the computer generated image is being displayed. In certain example embodiments the one or more portions of the display surface that are not displaying the computer generated image and through which ambient light transmission is restricted may substantially surround or encompass the area of the display surface that is displaying the image so as to produce a local dimming effect that improves contrast between the image and the ambient environment.

Further in certain example embodiments an ambient light sensor image sensor e.g. camera or the like may be provided as part of the system . The sensor may detect an intensity of ambient light passing through various portions of the light shutter and or the display surface . The computer processor of the system may programmatically control the shutter elements of the light shutter based on sensor data that indicates ambient light intensity to modulate the amount of ambient light that passes through the light shutter and that reaches the display surface . For example the computer processor may determine that ambient light of a particularly high intensity e.g. intensity above a threshold value is being transmitted through a particular portion of the display surface and may control one or more shutter elements to restrict the amount of ambient light that passes through a portion of the light shutter that corresponds to the particular portion of the display surface . In this manner particularly high intensities of ambient light may be diminished thereby improving visibility of the computer generated image and the overall user experience.

Referring now to a grayscale effect may additionally or alternatively be achieved by maintaining or transitioning certain shutter elements to a closed state and maintaining or transitioning certain other shutter elements to an open state . In this example embodiment the pixels of the light shutter may need to be relatively smaller in size than in other example embodiments in order to achieve the grayscale effect using the approach depicted in .

Referring now to yet another approach for achieving a grayscale effect may be the use of multiple shutter elements to modulate light transmission through a single corresponding pixel element. A grayscale effect may be achievable by controlling the multiple shutter elements to achieve a desired partial transmittance of ambient light through the corresponding pixel.

Referring now to yet another approach for achieving a grayscale effect may be the use of variable transparency shutter elements capable of modulating the amount of ambient light that is allowed to pass through. Various shutter elements having variable levels of transparency to ambient light are depicted in . A level of transparency of the variable transparency shutter element may be adjusted by varying an electrical condition of the shutter element e.g. an amount of voltage current or the like applied to the shutter element . The shutter element may be capable of transitioning between a first state in which the shutter element is substantially transparent to light and a second state in which the shutter element is substantially opaque to light as well as any number of states having intermediate levels of transparency between the first state and the second state.

The system may include a lens train one or more imaging elements and a group of mirrors for reflecting ambient light to a user s eye as well as projected light produced by the imaging elements s . More particularly in example embodiments of the disclosure an ambient light source may generate ambient light . One or more transmission characteristics e.g. a propagation path an amount of ambient light transmitted an amount of ambient light reflected etc. may be modified by the lens train which may include one or more lenses and optionally any number of additional optical elements. Ambient light that has traveled through the lens train may be reflected off one or more mirrors e.g. mirror towards the user s eye. In certain example embodiments an orientation of any mirror may be adjusted to redirect reflected ambient light towards or away from the user s eye. For example the mirror is depicted as being positioned at an angle that causes the reflected ambient light to be directed towards the user s eye. Other mirror s e.g. mirror may be reoriented so as to reflect ambient light away from the user s eye. The orientation of the mirrors may be controlled by control signals generated by a computer processor of the augmented reality system.

In addition in certain example embodiments a light shutter may be provided as part of the system to modulate an amount of the ambient light that reaches the mirrors. The light shutter may include any of the example types of light shutters previously described. An example shutter element of the light shutter is depicted in . The shutter element may be positioned so as to modulate the amount of ambient light that reaches a corresponding mirror . In an example embodiment the shutter element may be controlled to transition to a closed state to prevent ambient light from passing through a corresponding portion of the light shutter and to thus prevent the ambient light from reaching and reflecting off of the mirror . Imaging element s may emit or modulate light based on image signals corresponding to a computer generated image. The emitted or modulated light may be transmitted to one or more optical elements not shown that may produce projected light that is reflected off of the mirror towards a user s eye.

Referring now to a schematic block diagram depicting example components of an illustrative augmented reality system in accordance with one or more example embodiments of the disclosure is shown. In certain example embodiments the system may be implemented in a wearable device e.g. glasses goggles helmet etc. . In other example embodiments the system may be implemented in connection with any number of alternative applications. For example the system may be provided as part of a user appliance e.g. a washer dryer a refrigerator etc. such that computer generated images may be projected onto or emitted through a see through display surface that also provides visibility into an internal portion of the appliance. As another example the system may be implemented in connection with automotive applications. For example the display surface may be incorporated into the windshield of an automobile such that the system projects light onto or emits light through the windshield. As another example the display surface may be a window of a building. It should be appreciated that the above examples of applications in which an augmented reality system in accordance with example embodiments of the disclosure may be used are merely illustrative and not exhaustive.

In an illustrative configuration the system may include one or more processors processor s one or more memory devices generically referred to herein as memory one or more input output I O interface s one or more network interfaces one or more sensors or sensor interfaces one or more transceivers data storage a light shutter one or more imaging elements one or more optical elements and a display surface . The system may further include one or more buses that functionally couple various components of the system . The system may further include one or more antennas not shown that may include without limitation a cellular antenna for transmitting or receiving signals to from a cellular network infrastructure an antenna for transmitting or receiving Wi Fi signals to from an access point AP a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS antenna for receiving GNSS signals from a GNSS satellite a Bluetooth antenna for transmitting or receiving Bluetooth signals a Near Field Communication NFC antenna for transmitting or receiving NFC signals and so forth. These various components will be described in more detail hereinafter.

The bus es may include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and may permit exchange of information e.g. data including computer executable code signaling etc. between various components of the system . The bus es may include without limitation a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and so forth. The bus es may be associated with any suitable bus architecture including without limitation an Industry Standard Architecture ISA a Micro Channel Architecture MCA an Enhanced ISA EISA a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA architecture an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP architecture a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI architecture a PCI Express architecture a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA architecture a Universal Serial Bus USB architecture and so forth.

The memory of the system may include volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory ferroelectric RAM FRAM and so forth. In certain example embodiments volatile memory may enable faster read write access than non volatile memory. However in certain other example embodiments certain types of non volatile memory e.g. FRAM may enable faster read write access than certain types of volatile memory.

In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as various types of static random access memory SRAM various types of dynamic random access memory DRAM various types of unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth. The memory may include main memory as well as various forms of cache memory such as instruction cache s data cache s translation lookaside buffer s TLBs and so forth. Further cache memory such as a data cache may be a multi level cache organized as a hierarchy of one or more cache levels L L etc. .

The data storage may include removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. The data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM as that term is used herein.

The data storage may store computer executable code instructions or the like that may be loadable into the memory and executable by the processor s to cause the processor s to perform or initiate various operations. The data storage may additionally store data that may be copied to memory for use by the processor s during the execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover output data generated as a result of execution of the computer executable instructions by the processor s may be stored initially in memory and may ultimately be copied to data storage for non volatile storage.

More specifically the data storage may store one or more program modules such as for example one or more image signal generation modules and one or more light shutter control module s . The data storage may further store any of variety of other types of modules. Further any program modules stored in the data storage may include one or more sub modules. Although not depicted in the data storage may store other computer executable code such as for example one or more operating systems that may be loaded from the data storage into the memory and which may provide an interface between other program modules executing on the system and hardware resources of the system . In addition the data storage may store various types of data that may be provided as input to a program module or generated as a result of execution of a program module such as for example sensor data indicative of ambient light intensity sensed by an ambient light sensor or the like image data representative of computer generated images and so forth. Any data stored in the data storage may be loaded into the memory for use by the processor s in executing computer executable code. It should be appreciated that data as that term is used herein includes computer executable instructions code or the like.

Referring now to functionality supported by the various program modules depicted in the image signal generation module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to generate image signals e.g. digital voltage signals digital current signals etc. representative of a computer generated image to be displayed. Digital signals generated by the image signal generation module s may be converted by an analog to digital converter ADC to corresponding analog signals that may be supplied to electronic circuitry to control the imaging element s to emit or modulate light in accordance with the signals. In certain example embodiments one or more transmission characteristics of the emitted or modulated light may be altered by one or more optical element s to generate projected light that may be projected towards and reflected off of the display surface toward a user s eye.

The light shutter control module s may include computer executable instructions code or the like that responsive to execution by one or more of the processor s may cause processing to be performed to control one or more shutter elements of a light shutter to modulate the amount of ambient light that is permitted to pass through the light shutter and reach the display surface . The light shutting control module s may control the light shutter elements in accordance with any of the mechanisms previously described.

Referring now to other illustrative components of the system the processor s may be configured to access the memory and execute computer executable instructions loaded therein. For example the processor s may be configured to execute computer executable instructions of the various program modules of the user system to cause or facilitate various operations to be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The processor s may include any suitable processing unit capable of accepting data as input processing the input data in accordance with stored computer executable instructions and generating output data. The processor s may include any type of suitable processing unit including but not limited to a central processing unit a microprocessor a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC microprocessor a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC microprocessor a microcontroller an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a System on a Chip SoC a digital signal processor DSP and so forth. Further the processor s may have any suitable microarchitecture design that includes any number of constituent components such as for example registers multiplexers arithmetic logic units cache controllers for controlling read write operations to cache memory branch predictors or the like. The microarchitecture design of the processor s may be capable of supporting any of a variety of instruction sets.

In addition the system may include one or more input output I O interfaces that may facilitate the receipt of input information by the system from one or more I O devices as well as the output of information from the system to the one or more I O devices. The I O devices may include for example one or more user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the system including but not limited to a display a keypad a pointing device a control panel a touch screen display a remote control device a microphone a speaker and so forth. The I O devices may further include for example any number of peripheral devices such as data storage devices printing devices and so forth.

The system may further include one or more network interfaces via which the system may communicate with any of a variety of other systems platforms networks devices and so forth. Such communication may occur via one or more networks including but are not limited to any one or more different types of communications networks such as for example cable networks public networks e.g. the Internet private networks e.g. frame relay networks wireless networks cellular networks telephone networks e.g. a public switched telephone network or any other suitable private or public packet switched or circuit switched networks. Further such network s may have any suitable communication range associated therewith and may include for example global networks e.g. the Internet metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or personal area networks PANs . In addition such network s may include communication links and associated networking devices e.g. link layer switches routers etc. for transmitting network traffic over any suitable type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted pair wire e.g. twisted pair copper wire optical fiber a hybrid fiber coaxial HFC medium a microwave medium a radio frequency communication medium a satellite communication medium or any combination thereof.

The antenna s not shown may include any suitable type of antenna depending for example on the communications protocols used to transmit or receive signals via the antenna s . Non limiting examples of suitable antennas may include directional antennas non directional antennas dipole antennas folded dipole antennas patch antennas multiple input multiple output MIMO antennas or the like. The antenna s may be communicatively coupled to one or more transceivers or radio components to which or from which signals may be transmitted or received.

The transceiver s may include any suitable radio component s for in cooperation with the antenna s transmitting or receiving radio frequency RF signals in the bandwidth and or channels corresponding to the communications protocols utilized by the system to communicate with other devices. The transceiver s may include hardware software and or firmware for modulating transmitting or receiving potentially in cooperation with any of antenna s communications signals according to any suitable communication protocol including but not limited to one or more Wi Fi and or Wi Fi direct protocols as standardized by the IEEE 802.11 standards one or more non Wi Fi protocols or one or more cellular communications protocols or standards. The transceiver s may further include hardware firmware or software for receiving GNSS signals. The transceiver s may include any known receiver and baseband suitable for communicating via the communications protocols utilized by the system . The transceiver s may further include a low noise amplifier LNA additional signal amplifiers an analog to digital A D converter one or more buffers a digital baseband or the like.

The sensor s sensor interface s may include or may be capable of interfacing with any suitable type of sensing device such as for example ambient light sensors inertial sensors force sensors thermal sensors image sensors magnetometers and so forth. Example types of inertial sensors may include accelerometers e.g. MEMS based accelerometers gyroscopes and so forth.

It should be appreciated that the program modules applications computer executable instructions code or the like depicted in as being stored in the data storage are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that processing described as being supported by any particular module may alternatively be distributed across multiple modules or performed by a different module. In addition various program module s script s plug in s Application Programming Interface s API s or any other suitable computer executable code hosted locally on the system and or hosted on other computing device s accessible via one or more networks may be provided to support functionality provided by the program modules applications or computer executable code depicted in and or additional or alternate functionality. Further functionality may be modularized differently such that processing described as being supported collectively by the collection of program modules depicted in may be performed by a fewer or greater number of modules or functionality described as being supported by any particular module may be supported at least in part by another module. In addition program modules that support the functionality described herein may form part of one or more applications executable across any number of systems or devices in accordance with any suitable computing model such as for example a client server model a peer to peer model and so forth. In addition any of the functionality described as being supported by any of the program modules depicted in may be implemented at least partially in hardware and or firmware across any number of devices.

It should further be appreciated that the system may include alternate and or additional hardware software or firmware components beyond those described or depicted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. More particularly it should be appreciated that software firmware or hardware components depicted as forming part of the system are merely illustrative and that some components may not be present or additional components may be provided in various embodiments. In addition the system may include other display components beyond those shown or described. While various illustrative program modules have been depicted and described as software modules stored in data storage it should be appreciated that functionality described as being supported by the program modules may be enabled by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. It should further be appreciated that each of the above mentioned modules may in various embodiments represent a logical partitioning of supported functionality. This logical partitioning is depicted for ease of explanation of the functionality and may not be representative of the structure of software hardware and or firmware for implementing the functionality. Accordingly it should be appreciated that functionality described as being provided by a particular module may in various embodiments be provided at least in part by one or more other modules. Further one or more depicted modules may not be present in certain embodiments while in other embodiments additional modules not depicted may be present and may support at least a portion of the described functionality and or additional functionality. Moreover while certain modules may be depicted and described as sub modules of another module in certain embodiments such modules may be provided as independent modules or as sub modules of other modules.

At block computer executable instructions of the image signal generation module s may be executed by one or more of the processor s to generate image signals corresponding to a computer generated image.

At block computer executable instructions of the image signal generation module s may be executed to provide the image signals to one or more imaging elements that form the computer generated image by generating emitted light or modulated light based at least in part on the image signals. For example an emissive display may emit light responsive to receipt of the image signals. A non emissive display may modulate emitted light based at least in part on the image signals to generate a modulated image. The emitted light generated by an emissive display and or the modulated light generated by a non emissive display may be supplied to one or more optical elements that may produce projected light. The projected light may be reflected off of or the emitted light may be passed through a display surface that is transparent to ambient light.

At block computer executable instructions of the light shutter control module s may be executed by one or more of the processor s to independently control a first set of one or more shutter elements of a light shutter to at least partially restrict ambient light from passing through a first portion of the light shutter and from reaching a first portion of the display surface. This may be achieved by generating a control signal that mechanically and or electrically causes the first set of shutter elements to transition to the closed state or to a state having reduced transparency to ambient light. The first portion of the display surface may include an area of the display surface displaying a computer generated image and optionally a portion of the display surface adjacent to the area displaying the image.

At block computer executable instructions of the light shutter control module s may be executed to independently control a second set of one or more shutter elements of the light shutter to allow ambient light to pass through a second portion of the light shutter and to reach a second portion of the display surface. In this manner suitable contrast between the computer generated image and the ambient environment may be achieved.

Optionally at block computer executable instructions of the light shutter control module s may be executed to generate a grayscale effect by generating control signal s to maintain a first number of shutter elements in a closed state and a second number of shutter elements in an open state by generating control signal s to cause a number of shutter elements to transition between the closed state and the open state at one or more time intervals or by adjusting a number of shutter elements to variable levels of transparency.

One or more operations of the method may have been described above as being performed by one or more components of the system or more specifically by one or more one or more program modules executing on such a system . It should be appreciated however that any of the operations of method may be performed at least in part in a distributed manner by one or more other devices or systems or more specifically by one or more program modules applications or the like executing on such devices. In addition it should be appreciated that processing performed in response to execution of computer executable instructions provided as part of an application program module or the like may be interchangeably described herein as being performed by the application or the program module itself or by a device on which the application program module or the like is executing. While the operations of the method may be described in the context of the illustrative system it should be appreciated that such operations may be implemented in connection with numerous other system configurations.

The operations described and depicted in the illustrative method of may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various example embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally in certain example embodiments at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain example embodiments less more or different operations than those depicted in may be performed.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further while various illustrative implementations and architectures have been described in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other modifications to the illustrative implementations and architectures described herein are also within the scope of this disclosure.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively may be implemented by execution of computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments. Further additional components and or operations beyond those depicted in blocks of the block and or flow diagrams may be present in certain embodiments.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Program modules applications or the like disclosed herein may include one or more software components including for example software objects methods data structures or the like. Each such software component may include computer executable instructions that responsive to execution cause at least a portion of the functionality described herein e.g. one or more operations of the illustrative methods described herein to be performed.

A software component may be coded in any of a variety of programming languages. An illustrative programming language may be a lower level programming language such as an assembly language associated with a particular hardware architecture and or operating system platform. A software component comprising assembly language instructions may require conversion into executable machine code by an assembler prior to execution by the hardware architecture and or platform.

Another example programming language may be a higher level programming language that may be portable across multiple architectures. A software component comprising higher level programming language instructions may require conversion to an intermediate representation by an interpreter or a compiler prior to execution.

Other examples of programming languages include but are not limited to a macro language a shell or command language a job control language a script language a database query or search language or a report writing language. In one or more example embodiments a software component comprising instructions in one of the foregoing examples of programming languages may be executed directly by an operating system or other software component without having to be first transformed into another form.

A software component may be stored as a file or other data storage construct. Software components of a similar type or functionally related may be stored together such as for example in a particular directory folder or library. Software components may be static e.g. pre established or fixed or dynamic e.g. created or modified at the time of execution .

Software components may invoke or be invoked by other software components through any of a wide variety of mechanisms. Invoked or invoking software components may comprise other custom developed application software operating system functionality e.g. device drivers data storage e.g. file management routines other common routines and services etc. or third party software components e.g. middleware encryption or other security software database management software file transfer or other network communication software mathematical or statistical software image processing software and format translation software .

Software components associated with a particular solution or system may reside and be executed on a single platform or may be distributed across multiple platforms. The multiple platforms may be associated with more than one hardware vendor underlying chip technology or operating system. Furthermore software components associated with a particular solution or system may be initially written in one or more programming languages but may invoke software components written in another programming language.

Computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that execution of the instructions on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus causes one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams to be performed. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium CRSM that upon execution may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions or operations specified in the flow diagrams. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in any of the devices described herein may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the information and which can be accessed. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM. Alternatively computer readable communication media CRCM may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include CRCM.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

