---

title: Bluetooth transmission security pattern
abstract: Beacon devices transmit beacon messages that may be used to alert an application on a user device, e.g., a mobile phone, of the beacon device's proximity. Some embodiments contemplate a beacon device configured to transmit a pattern of successive beacon messages and/or Bluetooth Low Energy broadcast messages at one or more different power levels. The pattern of power levels may securely identify the beacon device. For example, the mobile phone application may confirm with a network server that the pattern agrees with the beacon device's identity. The pattern may also serve a calibration function. Where the mobile device application has knowledge of the expected power levels in the pattern, the application can infer from weaker transmissions that the beacon device is further from the mobile device. The weaker power levels may also indicate the character of the transmission environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426657&OS=09426657&RS=09426657
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09426657
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140815
---
The ubiquity of personal mobile computing devices mobile devices presents many opportunities for context based interaction with users. Unfortunately various technical hurdles limit the degree to which various systems can provide this contextual functionality. For example Quick Response QR and bar codes require the user to actively take images within a short distance of an object Radio Frequency Identification RFID tags may only operate on the order of a few meters and exclusively Global Positioning System GPS based applications may be difficult to integrate with object placement so that the user device and object correspondence may be readily determined. While Bluetooth systems may provide an appropriate range and data transfer standing alone they often fail to provide the secondary functionality necessary to implement various context sensitive applications. Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods to complement and or enhance Bluetooth operations to facilitate contextual interactions with mobile user devices.

While the flow and sequence diagrams presented herein show an organization designed to make them more comprehensible by a human reader those skilled in the art will appreciate that actual data structures used to store this information may differ from what is shown in that they for example may be organized in a different manner may contain more or less information than shown may be compressed and or encrypted etc.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed embodiments. Further the drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to help improve the understanding of the embodiments. Similarly some components and or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments. Moreover while the various embodiments are amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the embodiments are intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosed embodiments as defined by the appended claims.

Various examples of the disclosed techniques will now be described in further detail. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the relevant art will understand however that the techniques discussed herein may be practiced without many of these details. Likewise one skilled in the relevant art will also understand that the techniques can include many other obvious features not described in detail herein. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail below so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description.

The terminology used below is to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the embodiments. Indeed certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this section.

The Bluetooth Low Energy BLE and other Bluetooth protocols enable devices to recognize their relative proximity e.g. between a mobile user device and a beacon device . A beacon device is a device that transmits a Bluetooth beacon message e.g. periodically that a mobile device can receive and analyze. Examples of beacon messages include e.g. an iBeacon message beacon messages may include broadcast payloads as known in the art . The mobile device s recognition of these beacon messages may then be used to perform various ancillary functions e.g. notifying the user of merchandise discounts notifying the user of an advertisement suggesting the user share their location with peers on a social network etc. .

For example is a block diagram illustrating an example interaction between a user device and a beacon device as may occur in some embodiments. The beacon device may emit a series of beacon messages on a wireless channel. The beacon messages may be emitted at regular intervals and may include information identifying the beacon device . These messages may be used to alert the user device of the beacon device s presence. As mentioned the user device may then take an action based upon the discovery of the beacon device e.g. notifying the user that merchandise near the beacon device is offered at a discount notifying the user of an advertisement etc. .

In the situation the user device may be too far from the beacon device to receive the beacon messages. An application may be running on the user device however passively waiting for receipt of a beacon message. When the user moves closer to the beacon device e.g. as depicted in situation the user device may receive the beacon message. The user device may then notify the application that a beacon message has been encountered. The application may transition from a passive to an active state and take action locally or across a network based upon receipt of the message. In the depicted example the user device has contacted a server via a network e.g. the Internet . The user device may have notified the server that it was in proximity to the beacon device and the server may have returned a message to display on the user device s screen . For example a retailer may have placed the beacon device near a discounted item in their store and configured the server to inform the user of the discount when the user approaches the beacon device .

In some embodiments a Passive Infrared PIR sensor may be placed on the beacon device possibly integrated with the beacon s circuitry. The PIR sensor may be used to detect whether a person is nearby e.g. based upon the infrared emissions from the user s body and to limit beacon transmissions until someone is within the vicinity of the beacon device. In this manner power expenditures may be reduced at the beacon device. By employing a Fresnel lens a range of 5 10 meters may be possible. Furthermore the PIR sensor may be used to determine the signal range allowing lower powered transmissions to be performed when the user is in closer proximity. If these lower power transmissions are made the system may provide transmission power level information in the beacon message to allow the user device to calibrate the beacon device distance determination as described elsewhere herein e.g. to recognize that the beacon device is transmitting at a lower power level rather than being farther away from the user . These embodiments may be particularly useful where the beacon device employs a finite power source e.g. a battery.

Thus as an example the beacon device may broadcast every 100 ms. The beacon device may check the PIR sensor during a subinterval e.g. the last 10 ms of the 100 ms interval . If the PIR sensor detects that a person is nearby the beacon device may refresh the broadcast interval and broadcast the beacon again in the next interval. Conversely if the PIR sensor does not detect a person nearby during the subinterval the beacon device may not broadcast the beacon signal. The beacon device may poll the PIR again during the next 100 ms broadcast interval to determine if someone is nearby. Naturally the PIR sensor may be polled between beacon transmission intervals rather than during a subinterval in some embodiments.

The PIR sensor may also be used to avoid simultaneous transmissions from beacon devices competing on a same or related channels. For example the PIR range may be less than the transmission range of the beacon device. Thus if the beacon device only transmits when the PIR indicates that a user is within range the user s device is less likely to be overwhelmed by messages from neighboring beacon devices.

While the behavior in is suitable for many applications it may be susceptible to various forms of malicious attack. For example a malicious attacker may capture and replay the beacon messages to impersonate the beacon device . For example where proximity to the beacon device is used to award the user e.g. with a discount the attacker may acquire the discount even when they are not in proximity to beacon device by replaying the messages to their user device. Similarly a malicious developer may design a beacon device that mimics a legitimate device to persuade a user to provide their personal information to a local system.

To prevent these attacks an encrypted authorization may be sent from the beacon device to the mobile device. The encrypted authorization may reflect a rolling value e.g. generated locally at the beacon device or pulled by the beacon device via a network connection with server . Where the authorization is locally generated the process by which the authorization is locally generated may be known at the server and or at the application on the user device server e.g. the beacon device manipulates a timestamp in a known manner . Accordingly the server and or the user device can authenticate the beacon device preventing replay and impersonation attacks.

Unfortunately some operating systems e.g. the iOS operating system strip data fields in service Universally Unique Identifiers UUIDs from some received beacon messages e.g. iBeacons before the message is passed to the application. Thus one cannot include the encryption authorization in the data fields for these systems and be certain that the user device will have access to the data. Accordingly some embodiments provide a beacon device design and a protocol wherein the beacon device successively transmits a first waking beacon message e.g. an iBeacon message and a second data Bluetooth Low Energy broadcast message containing security data. The first beacon message alerts the application on the user device of the beacon device s proximity and in some embodiments the beacon message s identity . Once awakened by this message according to the device s operating system e.g. iOS Android etc. the application may then anticipate receipt of the second message. The second message may contain the encrypted authorization and any additional information e.g. a social network page relevant to the application. By verifying the authorization the mobile application can confirm that the beacon device is genuine. A single chip or multiple chips may be used at the beacon device to effect the successive transmissions in a desired timing window. In some embodiments multiple beacon messages may be sent before the Bluetooth Low Energy broadcast message to address limitations of alternative operating systems.

The payload data may include a UUID confirming the beacon device s identity and a rolling key . As discussed above the rolling key may be generated locally at the beacon device or may be provided to the beacon device from a server. An application on the user device may use the rolling key to confirm the beacon device s authenticity. For example a table within the application or as specified by the server may indicate the expected key based on the current time e.g. the expected content of the encrypted payload may cycle periodically throughout the hour or based on a function receiving the current time as input . In some embodiments a public private key relation may also exist where the rolling key is encrypted with a public key paired with a private key on the user device or with a private key located on an authentication server. In this manner the user device or authentication server may verify the authenticity of the beacon device both by decrypting the content with the private key and by verifying the authenticity of the content once decrypted. In some embodiments certificate authorities may be used to verify the public key.

As discussed herein the rolling key may be an authentication value and may be received at the beacon device from a server e.g. social networking server via an application. The application receiving the authentication values could be different than the one receiving with the beacon messages e.g. a first application may receive the authentication values and a second independent application could obtain the values from the first application via an Application Programming Interface etc. .

The authentication values may be in a specific sequence. The sequence may repeat over a time interval and the sequence may repeat for a number of time intervals and then change. The sequence may be specific to an entity e.g. Starbucks uses a different sequence than Peets Coffee . The sequence could be global e.g. all beacons from one company have the same rolling sequence .

The beacon device may have a single transmitter as in device . In this situation there may be a switch time delay after transmission of the iBeacon signal before transmission of the data signal may occur the delay may occur periodically e.g. appearing again at time . For example the beacon system may need to decouple the beacon signal generating components from the transmitter and couple the data transmitting components. The duration of this switch time delay interval may be anticipated in some embodiments. For example the beacon system may be designed so as to anticipate the reception behavior of the user devices conversely applications on the user devices may be designed to accommodate the limitations of the beacon device .

As an example of the relevant timing considerations timeline indicates the relevant behavior at one example user device. Following detection at time there may be an initial delay as the user device recognizes the presence of the iBeacon . The detection may initiate a wakeup process . For example one application thread may listen for the iBeacon . Following receipt of the iBeacon this thread may spawn a second thread to receive the BLE data transmission at the receptive period . In this example because the wakeup process has taken too long there is a gap between the end of the data transmission and the beginning of the user device s receptivity for the timing diagram .

Accordingly the beacon device s intervals and or the user device application s intervals may be designed to avoid such interactions. For example in the second example timeline the user device is able to receive the data transmission in interval because the wakeup process is shorter e.g. maybe both threads were already running and merely reflects the time to switch between threads and notify the second thread of the beacon message s arrival . This is true even though the detection interval is the same length as detection interval

In some embodiments beacon devices transmit beacon messages to alert an application on a mobile user device e.g. a mobile phone of the beacon device s proximity. A Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI field may indicate the power level at which the beacon message was received at the mobile device. Where the transmission power of the beacon device is standardized e.g. it s agreed upon in advance that the beacon device will transmit at a particular power level the application can infer the distance from the beacon device based upon the RSSI field in some embodiments a transmission and receipt timestamp may also be used to corroborate the inferred distance determination . By considering successive RSSI values over time while the mobile device is in motion in conjunction with position information e.g. GPS information for the mobile device the location of the beacon device relative to the mobile device may be inferred. Similarly where multiple mobile devices simultaneously receive beacon messages the beacon device position may be inferred by triangulating each of the mobile devices GPS and RSSI values. Moving and or stationary beacon devices may be detected in this manner using moving and or stationary mobile devices.

Based on these shared measurements the one or more user devices and or the server may infer the position coordinates of beacon device . For example a measurement may be taken at position a measurement at position and a measurement at position . Position may be a distance D from the beacon device position may be a distance D from the beacon device and position may be a distance D from the beacon device . Similarly the beacon messages may be received at times T T and T for each of positions . In some embodiments the timestamps and or the RSSI level of the beacon message may be used to infer distance. In isolation it is unclear where along each of circles the beacon device is located for the measurements taken at each of the positions . With two measurements e.g. those taken at positions and there would then be only two possible locations at which the beacon device was situated i.e. the two intersections of the circles and . The third measurement at position may be used to resolve the ambiguity as only one of the two possible position intersections of the circles and also intersects the circle i.e. the intersection at position .

At block the system may determine that the beacon IDs identified in the messages correspond to a same beacon device. For example every time a message is received the system may search past messages e.g. in a SQL table to identify corresponding measurements from the same or different user devices .

When three measurements corresponding to a same beacon device have been acquired at three different user device positions the system may seek to update the beacon device s position. For example at block the system may determine the distances from each of the user device positions to the beacon device based upon the timestamps and or power level values. With these distances and the user device positions at block the system may determine the intersection of circles about each user device position with a radii of the circles corresponding to the associated determined distances. At block this intersecting point may be recorded as the position of the beacon device.

One will recognize variations in the above description. For example the user devices may determine the distance to the beacon device themselves based upon the timestamps power levels and may transmit this distance information in the messages rather than the raw measurement values.

Similarly in situation the system may triangulate a beacon device s position by inferring measurements from two or more devices. For example a first device may sense the beacon device at a position a distance D from the beacon device. A second device may make a first measurement at position at a distance D from the beacon device and may subsequently make a measurement at position at a distance D from the beacon device. The system may aggregate these temporal spatial measurements and assuming the beacon device is stationary perform a triangulation assessment.

Rather than use multiple devices a single device may be used in the situation . In this situation a single device moves from positions and . The system may aggregate these temporal spatial measurements and assuming the beacon device is stationary perform a triangulation assessment. using the temporally disparate distance position pairs. Thus the messages in blocks and may be from a single user device at different times multiple devices at the same time but different positions etc.

At block the system may determine the distance from the beacon device to the user device based upon the timestamps and or power intensity. At block the system may retrieve previously processed position distance data associated with the beacon ID.

At block the system may determine whether the distance information is suitable. For example as mentioned herein differences in elevation may result in two measurements presenting different distances from a beacon device. If these measurements were assumed to lie in the same plane then an erroneous position for the beacon device may be determined. Accordingly at block the system may compare the incoming measurement with past measurements. If elevation data is included in the position measurements then the system may normalize the distance data to a common elevation and accordingly accept all the normalized data as suitable . Alternatively if the GPS data includes three dimensions the system may identify the intersections of spheres about each user device position e.g. having a radius of the reported distance and center at the user device position . Where elevation data is not present however the system may instead identify user devices presenting measurements substantially affected by elevation and may exclude the measurement s so affected. For example if the difference in the two dimensional position coordinates between two user device beacon message measurements is only very slight but the distance to the beacon device changes dramatically the system may infer that at least one of the user devices is located on a steep incline. If the data cannot be normalized for triangulation at block the system may discard the messages taken from disparately elevated locations.

At block the system may store the newly received distance pair relation e.g. associating the pair with the beacon device and user device IDs in a database.

At block the system may determine whether the distance position pairs corresponding to the beacon device ID indicate only a single candidate position. If a single position has not yet been resolved e.g. where there are only two suitable distance position pairs presenting two candidate beacon device positions the system may wait for additional messages resolving the ambiguity. Once the ambiguity is resolved at block the beacon device location may be updated in the database and or appropriate responsive action taken e.g. notifying a user of the beacon device s location .

In some embodiments the received messages may be associated with a receipt timestamp. After a period of time the message data may be considered stale and removed from the database. In this manner the beacon device position may regularly be updated using fresh data. One will recognize additional variations e.g. where the updated position is taken as an average of multiple determinations as a Bayesian inference based upon the quality and quantity of past measurements etc.

Plot depicts an idealized relation between the received intensity of a beacon message at a user device and the distance of the user device from the beacon device. Generally given an isotropically distributed beacon message transmission the intensity will decay with distance from the beacon device. Plot depicts a more realistic relation involving a convex distribution although the distribution may be concave in some situations .

Where there is an interfering medium between the user device and the beacon device the distortion may manifest itself as a deviation from an idealized power distribution. For example the user device may expect a distribution that continues along a path . However an interfering medium may cause the decay to transition instead to a profile . A measurement at distance may accordingly indicate a much lower power intensity than expected. Absent additional knowledge the system may infer that the user device is at a distance much further from the beacon device than is actually the case. Accordingly in some embodiments the power intensity may be corroborated with timestamp information e.g. time of transmission indicated in the beacon message and time of receipt at the user device . If the distance indicated by the timestamp differs considerably from that indicated by the power distribution the system may infer the presence of an interfering medium and discard the data. The timestamp need not be as accurate for this purpose as it would be if being used to actually perform the distance assessment.

While many of the embodiments discussed herein contemplate determining the location of a fixed beacon device some embodiments instead locate a moving beacon or at least make a determination that the beacon is not stationary. is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of a moving beacon and its measurement at one or more user device locations as may occur in some embodiments. A plurality of user devices may receive messages propagating from a beacon device as the beacon device travels along a trajectory e.g. the beacon device may be attached to a dog collar car purse etc. . Accordingly distance determinations D D may be made at time and distance determinations D D may be made at time for each of the respective devices. Various of the disclosed embodiments present systems and methods for distinguishing between moving user devices and or moving beacon devices.

In contrast sensing events do not all fall within the same period. Accordingly the system may defer a determination of the beacon device s position if attempting a triangulation using this data. Particularly the position of the beacon device during the transmission associated with sensing event is not necessarily the same as that associated with events and . A determination with this data may result in an improper triangulation assessment. Thus the system may consider the periodicity of beacon message transmissions from the beacon device when determining which datasets to use for the position determination.

At block the system may determine if the data reflects stationary user device data. For example the system may verify that the GPS data associated with a user device has not changed since a past sensing event was received. If the user devices appear to be stationary then at block the system may determine if the distance between each user device and the beacon device is substantially the same since the last measurement. If so the previously determined beacon device position may be retained at as the beacon device has not moved . Conversely if the distances have changed at block this will indicate that the beacon device is moving and that the new position should be determined. At block the system may determine if the events are associated with the same beacon transmission e.g. that they fall within the same beacon interval as discussed with respect to . If so then the system may update the beacon position at block using e.g. the triangulation methods described herein such as those in .

Returning to block if the user devices were not stationary then at block the system may determine whether the varying distances correspond to a stationary beacon device position. For example if only one user device has moved and its position is now a distance D from the previously determined position of the beacon device and it s measured distance is now D then the system may infer that the beacon device has not moved since the last determination and may transition to block .

Conversely where the user devices are not stationary and or the beacon device is not stationary then at block the system may determine whether the presently considered sensing events fall within a same beacon interval. If the events do not fall within the same interval then in some embodiments the system may determine at block whether interpolation is suitable. For example where the beacon device has not moved but one of the user devices has moved the system may interpolate the position of the user device between the beacon intervals to determine suitable values to use with the other sensing events residing in a same interval. Where such interpolation is expected to provide adequate results the interpolation may be performed at block before updating the beacon device position at block .

Where interpolation will not suffice or be possible then at block the system may give up the attempt and may wait for more suitable data. In some embodiments where an attempt fails the system may present users with a projected value of the beacon device s position based e.g. on past successful position and velocity determinations.

Some embodiments contemplate a beacon device configured to transmit a pattern of successive beacon messages and or Bluetooth Low Energy broadcast messages at one or more different power levels. The pattern of power levels may serve multiple functions. First in some embodiments the pattern level may securely identify the beacon device. The mobile phone application may confirm with a network server or locally that the pattern agrees with the beacon device s identity e.g. by applying a public private key pair verifying that a sequence of values match etc. . Second in some embodiments the pattern may also serve a calibration function. Based on the pattern the mobile device may be able to infer the values at which transmissions are made by the beacon device and consequently the distance associated with the power level at which a message has been received at the user device . Once the mobile device has determined the power at which the messages were transmitted the mobile device can infer from weaker received power levels that the beacon device is further from the mobile device. The weaker power levels may also indicate the character of the transmission environment as discussed herein.

As discussed herein the authentication values may be received at the beacon device from a server e.g. social networking server via an application. The application receiving the authentication values could be different than the one receiving with the beacon messages e.g. a first application may receive the authentication values and a second independent application could obtain the values from the first application via an Application Programming Interface etc. .

The authentication values may be in a specific sequence. The sequence may repeat over a time interval and the sequence may repeat for a number of time intervals and then change. The sequence may be specific to an entity e.g. Starbucks uses a different sequence than Peets Coffee . The sequence could be global e.g. all beacons from one company have the same rolling sequence . These features of the receipt and variation in the authentication values from the server may apply to the Pattern Security transmissions discussed herein as well as to the encrypted payload in the wakeup message discussed above.

As depicted in each beacon s received power intensity scales proportionally because the user device remains stationary. Accordingly BEACON MIN may dictate the minimum number of beacons for which the user device and or beacon is to remain stationary such that the power level scales proportionately for all the beacons as a consequence of the initial transmission power rather than as a consequence of the distance between the devices . In some embodiments movement may be allowed e.g. if the power intensity distribution is as shown in and the beacon power intensities can be normalized at different distances from the beacon device. In this manner the quantization and transmitted pattern may still be determined.

At block the system may identify the maximum power intensity at which a beacon message from the corpus was received. At block the system may identify the minimum power intensity at which a beacon message from the corpus was received. As discussed above only one of the maximum or minimum may be determined in some embodiments. Other values e.g. the median may also be used for quantization depending upon the agreements of the protocol.

At block the system may quantize the beacon message power intensities. For example the system may associate an integer value with each of the intensity levels. In this manner the system may compare the pattern with a secure sequence of numbers. At block the system may identify the integer pattern in these quantized values.

If the determined pattern agrees with the expected pattern at block the system may authenticate the beacon device at block or otherwise proceed as though the beacon device were genuine. Alternatively if the patterns do not match exactly or within an allowed degree of error then at block the system may attempt to reauthenticate the beacon device and or flag the beacon device as an impersonator.

At block the system may determine if the beacon device has been implicitly authenticated for example by comparing the power intensity patterns with a security pattern. If confirmation via the patterns has not yet been achieved the system may determine if the beacon device has been explicitly authenticated at block e.g. by reading the secure payload containing rolling key . If explicit authentication is not possible e.g. an appropriate beacon containing a key has not yet arrived the system may notify the user of the delay at block e.g. by continuing to indicate that authentication is continuing . As a new beacon has arrived at block the system may again attempt implicit authentication using the pattern at block . Once either explicit or implicit authentication finishes the system may complete the user experience at block e.g. by transmitting sensitive information .

The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that may store instructions that implement at least portions of the various embodiments. In addition the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium e.g. a signal on a communications link. Various communications links may be used e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network or a point to point dial up connection. Thus computer readable media can include computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory media and computer readable transmission media.

The instructions stored in memory can be implemented as software and or firmware to program the processor s to carry out actions described above. In some embodiments such software or firmware may be initially provided to the processing system by downloading it from a remote system through the computing system e.g. via network adapter .

The various embodiments introduced herein can be implemented by for example programmable circuitry e.g. one or more microprocessors programmed with software and or firmware or entirely in special purpose hardwired non programmable circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Special purpose hardwired circuitry may be in the form of for example one or more ASICs PLDs FPGAs etc.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. Further various modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the embodiments. Accordingly the embodiments are not limited except as by the appended claims.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not for other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. One will recognize that memory is one form of a storage and that the terms may on occasion be used interchangeably.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given above. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

