---

title: Systems and methods of interactive voice response speed control
abstract: A user may accelerate or decelerate the speed of playback of a recorded message provided by an interactive voice response (IVR) system at any time during the course of listening to the recorded message. The user may provide speed control instructions using predetermined keys or buttons on a communications device to modify the speed of the recorded message playback. Alternatively or additionally, the user may speak words to adjust the speed that a recorded message is being played to them. A speed control instruction may cause some or all of the recorded message to be repeated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344565&OS=09344565&RS=09344565
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09344565
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140715
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 066 entitled Systems and Methods of Interactive Voice Response Speed Control filed Oct. 2 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 781 082 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 074 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 079 each filed Oct. 2 2008 and each entitled Systems and Methods of Interactive Voice Response Speed Control. 

Speech recognition also referred to as voice recognition converts spoken words to machine readable input. Speech recognition in the field of telephony is commonplace. Speech recognition applications include voice dialing e.g. call home call routing e.g. make a collect call and simple data entry.

In telephony interactive voice response or IVR is a phone technology that allows a computer to detect voice and touch tones using a normal phone call. An IVR system can respond with prerecorded or dynamically generated audio to further direct users on how to proceed. IVR systems can be used to control almost any function where the interface can be broken down into a series of simple menu choices. For example a user dials a phone number that is answered by an IVR system. The IVR system executes an application which is tied to the number dialed. As part of the application prerecorded audio files or dynamically generated text to speech audio explain the options available to the user. The user is given the choice to select options using DTMF dual tone multi frequency tones or spoken words. Examples of typical IVR applications are telephone banking and credit card transactions.

Speech recognition and phone menu systems that route users calls are problematic and frustrating. IVR is often criticized as being unhelpful and difficult to use due to poor design and lack of appreciation of the user s needs. Some users object to providing voice response to an automated system and prefer speaking with a human respondent.

Additionally speech recognition and phone menu systems often have recorded message playback speeds that are either too fast or too slow for a user of the system. If the playback speed is too fast the user may not understand the communication and the system may be unusable for them. If the playback speed is too slow it may be frustrating for the user and this may contribute to slower or limited adoption. It is also possible that a playback speed that is acceptable at one point in a session with a user is not acceptable in another point in the session with the user creating further frustration.

The speed of playback of a recorded message provided by an interactive voice response IVR system may be adjusted by a use at any time while the user is listening to the recorded message.

In an implementation a user may provide speed control instructions using predetermined keys or buttons on a communications device to modify the speed of the recorded message playback. Alternatively or additionally the user may speak words to adjust the speed that a recorded message is being played to them. A speed control instruction may cause some or all of the recorded message to be repeated.

In an implementation data pertaining to a user and or a recorded message may be stored retrieved and or analyzed. Such data or analysis may be used in an adjustment of the playing of the recorded message or another recorded message to a user.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The institution may be any type of entity or business. For example the institution may be a financial services institution a credit card association or member of a credit card association a retail bank an investment bank an investment company etc. The institution system may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like. Systems and or subsystems of the institution system may provide an IVR platform that may be used in conjunction with aspects and embodiments described herein.

The user may have a communications device such as a corded or cordless telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld computing device a personal computer PC or any type of computing device that may be used to transmit and receive sound. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

In addition to a microphone and a speaker for receiving and playing audio respectively in an implementation the communications device may comprise a keypad a keyboard a touchscreen or any other type of input device that can receive input from the user . This allows the communications device to be used by the user as an input device for interacting with the institution system . The user may speak commands or input commands e.g. by pushing buttons or touching the screen of the communications device as an input method. In an implementation items on a display of the communications device may be selected or moved with a finger or stylus and finger gestures may be used to convey commands. There are a number of types of input technology available and any of them may be implemented within the communications device .

The communications device may operate through transmission of electric signals over a network . The network may be any type of telephone network or communications network such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless fidelity WiFi network a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like.

The institution system may play an audio file such as a recorded message over the network to the user via the communications device . The user may provide a speed control instruction to the institution system via the communications device to accelerate i.e. speed up or decelerate i.e. slow down the speed of the playback of the recorded message at any time during a session when the user is listening to the recorded message . The speed control instruction may also provide an instruction to repeat all or some portion of the recorded message . In an implementation a predetermined amount of the message may be repeated such as the previous 5 seconds 10 seconds etc. The user may choose to repeat more than once in order to have a longer portion of the message replayed. In an implementation the entire message may be repeated pursuant to a speed control instruction of repeat.

The speed control instruction may take the form of spoken commands such as faster slower repeat etc. and or may take the form of commands selected by the user via the communications device such as pushing a first button on a keypad or keyboard touchscreen etc. to choose to speed up a second button on the keypad to slow down and a third button on the keypad to repeat. The buttons may correspond to selectable numbers as provided by the institution system such as press or say 1 to speed up press or say 2 to slow down press or say 3 to repeat for example. In an implementation predetermined keys on a touch tone phone may be used to modify the speed of the recorded message playback e.g. 5 for repeat 7 for faster playback and 9 for slower playback .

The user may thus speak or enter commands and or numbers into the communications device to instruct the institution system to accelerate decelerate or repeat the recorded message that is being played to the user . In this manner the user may have control over the speed of the playback of the recorded message . In an implementation more than one speed control instruction may be provided to the institution system by the user and more than one recorded message may be played back to the user . Any known voice recognition technology may be used by the institution system to recognize spoken instructions received from the user . In an implementation some or all of the recorded messages that may be played to the user may be related to financial services information such as banking brokerage services insurance loans retirement etc.

In an implementation the institution system may analyze aspects of the instructions received from the user and take appropriate action such as changing the playback speed further and or transferring the user to a representative . For example if the user says repeat or excuse me or provides equivalent instructions a certain portion e.g. 5 seconds 10 seconds etc. of the recorded message that had been previously played may be repeated and the playback speed may be slowed down a predetermined amount. As another example if the user chooses a menu selection provided in the recorded message before the recorded message is finished playing further playback of recorded messages to the user may be accelerated by a predetermined amount.

In an implementation the user may provide identification and or authorization information e.g. PIN personal identification number password etc. to the institution system via the communications device in any known manner. Any techniques for identification and authorization may be used. The institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The institution system may comprise storage to store preferences of the user preferences associated a telephone number from which a session originated preferences of other users data relating to one or more sessions with one or more users etc. The storage may also store information such as audio files recorded messages cues prompts menu items directory information information pertaining to products and services information about the institution system etc. The information may be retrieved from the storage and played to the user during a session when the user calls in and or when requested by the user or as part of a call navigation technique. The storage may also contain identification and authentication information pertaining to the user so that the user may efficiently be identified and authenticated by the institution system .

In an implementation the institution system may identify the user and play the recorded message at a speed preference earlier selected by the user . In an implementation the institution system may identify the phone number where the user is calling from and play a message at a speed preference earlier selected by a user at that phone number.

A session may be considered to be taking place when the user is engaged in a call with the institution system . As described further herein when a recorded message is being played to a user during a session the user may select to accelerate decelerate or repeat the playback of the recorded message .

The audio files corresponding to the recorded messages may be stored digitally and therefore they may be modified or filtered potentially in real time. In an implementation a message for playback may be stored in storage as a single file and may be processed on the fly so that the message playback may be accelerated or decelerated to any speed not only to fixed speeds.

In an implementation a message for playback may be stored as multiple files with each file pertaining to a different speed of playback. Thus multiple audio files for a recorded message may be used one for each different available playback speed. The message may be recorded at different speeds and played back at a speed associated with the user selection from the associated stored file. In an implementation sync codes may be used to sync the files corresponding to the different speeds as the files for playback are changed as the user provides speed control instructions to change the speed of the playback of the recorded message .

The institution system may comprise one or more processors and software modules that may act in conjunction with one or more computing devices in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used to provide IVR and may be used to set playback speed and other settings and operating parameters that may retrieve and playback recorded messages to the user and that may receive speed control instructions from the user regarding playback as well as other input provided by the user . While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. As noted above an example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At the institution system may advise the user of the speed control options and instructions that the user may use to control the playback speed of the recorded message that may be played to the user. The user may be advised via an audio file. As noted above in an implementation predetermined keys on a touch tone phone predetermined buttons on a computing device spoken words etc. may be used to modify the speed of the message playback e.g. one key for faster playback another key for slower playback and a third key to repeat all or a portion of the recorded message .

At the recorded message may be played back to the user at a predetermined speed e.g. set by the institution system. At the user may provide a speed control instruction such as an instruction to accelerate or decelerate the speed that the recorded message is being played. In an implementation the user may provide an instruction to repeat the message or a portion of the message. The portion of the message to be repeated may be determined by the institution system. The speed control instruction may be spoken or may be provided by another input technique such as keypad button keyboard etc.

At the institution system may receive the speed control instruction and may adjust the playback speed of the recorded message accordingly and or repeat the message or portion of the message. The user may provide further speed control instructions during the session and the speed and or playback may be further adjusted in accordance with those instructions.

At similar to the user may provide a speed control instruction to accelerate or decelerate the speed that the recorded message is being played or to repeat the recorded message or a portion of it. At the institution system may receive and store the speed control instruction.

At the institution system may analyze the speed control instruction and or related data e.g. timing data selection data etc. in view of any received and stored instructions and or related data from earlier in the current session. At the institution system may adjust the playback speed based on the results of the analysis. In this manner the user s speed control instructions and related data during a session may be monitored and the playback speed of the recorded message and or other aspects of the call may be adjusted based on the monitoring. Processing may continue at .

In an implementation the institution system may analyze how many times in a row the user has requested to repeat the message or a portion of the message . If the user has requested a repeat a predetermined number of times within a session or within a certain time period the call may be transferred to a representative.

In another implementation if the user requests a repeat then the message or a portion of the message may be repeated as determined by the institution system and the playback speed may be decelerated. Additionally or alternatively for example if the user makes a selection e.g. a menu selection provided by the recorded message before the recorded message is finished playing further recorded messages may be played back to the user at an accelerated speed. In an implementation the playback speed may be be speeded up or slowed down based on user response times to cues and or prompts.

At similar to the institution system may select a recorded message for playback to the user may retrieve a file comprising the recorded message from storage and may playback the recorded message to the user at a predetermined speed. At similar to the user may provide a speed control instruction to the institution system. At the institution system may receive the speed control instruction and adjust the playback speed accordingly or repeat the message or a portion of the message.

At the institution system may store data regarding the recorded message that is being played back. The data may identify the particular message the type of message e.g. lists instructions cues prompts etc. other characteristics of the message and or the user s speed control instructions regarding the playback of the message etc. for example. The data may be associated with the user the telephone number of the user other characteristics of the user the message the message type and or other characteristics of the message etc. in a storage device. Additionally further data from current and future sessions involving the recorded message s the user and or other users may be stored.

The stored data may be used at to determine playback characteristics such as playback speed for recorded messages in the current session or in future sessions involving the user or other users. In an implementation user preferences for each message type may be stored as metadata e.g. user uses a first slower speed to listen to lists and uses a second faster speed to listen to instructions etc. . This information e.g. speed preferences may be stored and may be used in current and or future sessions involving the user or other users.

At it may be determined whether there is any data in storage pertaining to the user the telephone number that the user is calling from the geographic location the user is calling from based on information obtained from the incoming telephone call to the institution system or the recorded message that may be used to determine playback characteristics of a recorded message to the user. In an implementation the data may be directed to playback speed user preferences for playback speed etc. Additionally or alternatively the gender male or female accent and or other characteristics e.g. tone volume etc. of the voice of the recorded message may be determined based on the data such as the geographic location the user is calling from or the gender of the user for example.

If there is no stored data as determined at then the recorded message may be played back at using predetermined default settings. If there is stored data as determined at the data may be retrieved from storage at . At the recorded message may be played back in accordance with the retrieved data.

In an implementation the playback speed may be set based on whether or not the recorded message has been previously played back to the user. If so the recorded message may be played back to the user at a faster speed than if the recorded message had not previously been played back to the user.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices interconnected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device.

One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

