---

title: Electric power retail management apparatus and electric power retail management method
abstract: An electric power retail management apparatus according to an embodiment includes a power generation source selection unit. The power generation source selection unit selects, as a power generation source for supplying electric power corresponding to an amount of electric power supplied to each of electric power consumers, one or more power generation sources of which one or more types are selected by each of the electric power consumers from among a plurality of power generation sources for each electric power consumer on the basis of an amount of electric power supplied from the power generation sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09570914&OS=09570914&RS=09570914
owner: YAHOO JAPAN CORPORATION
number: 09570914
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140612
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 129750 filed in Japan on Jun. 20 2013.

The present invention relates to an electric power retail management apparatus and an electric power retail management method.

Conventionally electric power companies have exclusively supplied electric power to electric power consumers. However electric power retailers are enabled to enter such an electric power supply market following revision of the Electricity Business Act. The electric power retailers needs to adjust a power supply amount so that supply and demand are balanced when electric power for retail that is purchased from an electric power generating company is supplied to each of a plurality of electric power consumers who has made a contract. However unexpected demand variation may occur in some cases.

Accordingly an electric power retail system has been developed for adjusting demand and supply to cope with unexpected demand variation on the day in question and securing electric power required for supply to an electric power consumer for example refer to Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2002 123578 .

However with the conventional system described above the electric power consumer can designate only a required amount of electric power and needs corresponding to a preference of the electric power consumer cannot be reflected.

An electric power retail management device according to an embodiment includes a selection information storage unit a power consumption amount information acquisition unit a power generation amount information acquisition unit and a power generation source selection unit. The selection information storage unit stores therein selection information including information corresponding to a type of a power generation source selected by each of a plurality of electric power consumers. The power consumption amount information acquisition unit acquires as information about a power consumption amount information about an amount of electric power supplied from a power transmission and distribution network to the electric power consumers. The power generation amount information acquisition unit acquires as information about a power generation amount information about an amount of electric power supplied from a plurality of power generation sources to the power transmission and distribution network. The power generation source selection unit selects as a power generation source for supplying electric power corresponding to the power consumption amount one or more power generation sources of which the type corresponds to the selection information from among the power generation sources for each of the electric power consumers based on the power generation amount.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The following describes an embodiment of an electric power retail management apparatus and an electric power retail management method according to the present application in detail with reference to drawings. The electric power retail management apparatus and the electric power retail management method according to the present application are not limited to the embodiment.

First the following describes electric power retail management processing according to the embodiment. is an explanatory diagram of the electric power retail management processing according to the embodiment. In the present embodiment the electric power retail management apparatus performs the electric power retail management processing.

An electric power system illustrated in includes a power transmission and distribution network a apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network and the electric power retail management apparatus. An electric power company CB manages the power transmission and distribution network and the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network. An electric power retailer CA manages the electric power retail management apparatus.

The electric power retailer CA makes a contract in advance with a plurality of electric power generating companies CE1 to CE5 hereinafter collectively referred to as an electric power generating company CE in some cases to purchase electric power. The electric power generating company CE1 includes a solar power generation apparatus the electric power generating company CE2 includes a wind power generation apparatus the electric power generating company CE3 includes a geothermal power generation apparatus the electric power generating company CE4 includes a thermal power generation apparatus and the electric power generating company CE5 includes a nuclear power generation apparatus.

The electric power retailer CA also makes a contract in advance with a plurality of electric power consumers CD1 to CDn hereinafter collectively referred to as an electric power consumer CD in some cases to retail electric power. Such a contract to retail electric power is made by selecting information corresponding to a type of power generation source . Examples of the type of power generation source include solar power generation wind power generation geothermal power generation thermal power generation and nuclear power generation. Examples of the information corresponding to a type of power generation source include information for designating the type of power generation source and information about power rates specified on the basis of the type of power generation source.

The information for designating the type of power generation source is information including one or more types of power generation source and designates only solar power generation or thermal power generation and nuclear power generation for example. The information about power rates specified on the basis of the type of power generation source is information about a power rate plan corresponding to the type of power generation source and examples thereof include power rate plans A to C.

The power rate plan A is a plan combining power generation sources so as to minimize a power generation cost. When the power rate plan A is selected electric power is supplied by combining the nuclear power generation and the thermal power generation for example. The power rate plan B is a plan combining power generation sources utilizing natural regenerative energy. When the power rate plan B is selected electric power is supplied by combining the solar power generation the wind power generation and the geothermal power generation for example.

The power rate plan C is for example a plan combining the natural regenerative energy and the thermal power generation. When the power rate plan C is selected electric power is supplied by combining the solar power generation the wind power generation the geothermal power generation and the thermal power generation for example.

The electric power retail management apparatus causes power generation apparatuses of the electric power generating companies CE1 to CE5 to supply electric power to the power transmission and distribution network corresponding to contracts with the electric power consumers CD1 to CDn to retail electric power. In this case the electric power retail management apparatus creates a power supply demand plan so that generated power supplied from the power generation apparatuses of the electric power generating companies CE1 to CE5 to the power transmission and distribution network is commensurate with electric power acquired by the electric power consumers CD1 to CDn from the power transmission and distribution network at every predetermined time.

The electric power retail management apparatus transmits power supply demand planning information to the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network via a communication network. The power supply demand planning information includes planning information about the generated power supplied from the power generation apparatus of each electric power generating company CE to the power transmission and distribution network and planning information about a power consumption amount by each electric power consumer CD and is generated in predetermined time units.

Facilities of each electric power consumer CD include a smart meter which measures an amount of electric power used in the facilities of the electric power consumer CD hereinafter referred to as a power consumption amount . Such information about the power consumption amount is transmitted from each smart meter to the electric power retail management apparatus via the communication network. Accordingly the electric power retail management apparatus can detect the power consumption amount in the facilities of each electric power consumer CD.

The electric power retail management apparatus acquires information about an amount of electric power supplied from the power generation apparatus of the electric power generating company CE to the power transmission and distribution network hereinafter referred to as a power generation amount . The electric power retail management apparatus creates the power supply demand planning information on the basis of the power generation amount of the power generation apparatus of the electric power generating company CE the power consumption amount in the facilities of the electric power consumer CD and the contract to retail electric power.

A plan of the power consumption amount of the electric power consumer CD included in the power supply demand planning information is created using predicted values based on the current power consumption amount and a history of past power consumption amounts for example. A plan of the power generation amount of each power generation apparatus hereinafter referred to as a power generation plan included in the power supply demand planning information is set on the basis of the predicted power consumption amount of the electric power consumer CD and the contract to retail electric power.

The electric power retail management apparatus creates power generation control information for each power generation apparatus corresponding to the power generation plan and transmits the power generation control information to the power generation apparatuses of the electric power generating companies CE1 to CE5 via the communication network. The power generation control information is information for designating the power generation amount of the power generation apparatus. The power generation control information is generated so that the generated power supplied from the power generation apparatuses of the electric power generating companies CE1 to CE5 to the power transmission and distribution network is commensurate with the total power consumption amount per predetermined time and the type of the electric power corresponds to content of the contract with each electric power consumer CD to retail electric power is obtained.

Accordingly a virtual electric power transmission path is constructed between the facilities of each electric power consumer CD and the power generation apparatus of each electric power generating company CE and a request corresponding to the preference of the electric power consumer CD can be reflected. Accordingly attractive electric power retail service can be provided which enables the number of users to the electric power retail service to be increased.

For example when the electric power consumer CD1 desires electric power generated by the solar power generation regardless of a high power rate the request corresponding to the preference of the electric power consumer CD1 can be met by forming a virtual electric power transmission path between the solar power generation apparatus of the electric power generating company CE1 and the facilities of the electric power consumer CD1.

For example when the electric power consumer CD3 desires electric power of which the rate is as low as possible the request from the electric power consumer CD3 can be met by forming a virtual electric power transmission path between the thermal power generation apparatus of the electric power generating company CE4 as well as the nuclear power generation apparatus of the electric power generating company CE5 and the facilities of the electric power consumer CD3.

Next the following further describes the electric power system according to the embodiment with reference to . As illustrated in an electric power system includes an electric power retail management apparatus a apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network a power transmission and distribution network a communication network facilities to of the electric power consumers CD1 to CDn hereinafter referred to as electric power consumer facilities to and power generation apparatuses to of electric power generating companies CE1 to CEm.

The electric power company CB manages and operates the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network and the power transmission and distribution network . The power transmission and distribution network is connected for example to the facilities not illustrated of the electric power consumer that makes a contract with the electric power company CB or the power generation apparatus not illustrated of the electric power company CB and manages electric power demand and supply therebetween.

The apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network acquires the power supply demand planning information from the electric power retail management apparatus and gives permission to the power supply demand planning information. When the electric power is not supplied according to the power supply demand planning information that is given the permission the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network makes up for a shortage of the amount of electric power with the generated power from the power generation apparatus of the electric power company CB and charges the electric power retailer CA for a comparatively high power rate.

Each of the electric power consumer facilities to hereinafter collectively referred to as electric power consumer facilities in some cases includes a smart meter . Each smart meter measures the power consumption amount in each of the electric power consumer facilities and information about the power consumption amount measured by each smart meter is transmitted to the electric power retail management apparatus via the communication network .

Each of the power generation apparatuses to hereinafter collectively referred to as a power generation apparatus in some cases includes a power generator and a power generation control unit . The power generator supplies the generated power to the power transmission and distribution network . The power generation control unit controls the power generation amount of the power generator . The power generation control unit is connected to the electric power retail management apparatus in a communicable manner via the communication network notifies the electric power retail management apparatus of information about the current power generation amount and controls the power generator so that the power generation amount corresponding to the generated power control information transmitted from the electric power retail management apparatus can be obtained.

When the power generator is a solar panel or a windmill for example the power generation control unit accumulates part of the generated power from the power generator in a power storage apparatus to adjust the generated power to be supplied to the power transmission and distribution network . Examples of the power storage apparatus include a battery type power storage apparatus and a compressed air type power storage apparatus. The compressed air type power storage apparatus generates for example compressed air using the power generated by the solar power generation accumulates the compressed air in a tank and subsequently generates power by rotating a turbine with the accumulated compressed air.

When the power generator is a solar panel the power generation control unit can control the power generation amount by changing a direction of the solar panel. When the power generator is a windmill the power generation control unit can also control the power generation amount by changing a direction of a rotor propeller .

The power generation control unit outputs information about the current power generation amount and the maximum power generation amount of the power generator to the electric power retail management apparatus . According to the information the electric power retail management apparatus generates and transmits the generated power control information to each power generation apparatus via the communication network .

Next the following describes the electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment. is a diagram illustrating a configuration example of the electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment. As illustrated in the electric power retail management apparatus includes a communication unit a storage unit and a control unit .

The communication unit is a communication interface for transmitting receiving information to from the communication network and is connected to the communication network in a wired or wireless manner. The control unit can transmit receive various pieces of information to from the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network the smart meters of the electric power consumer facilities to and the power generation apparatuses to via the communication unit and the communication network .

The storage unit includes a selection information database DB and an electric power amount information DB . The selection information DB and the electric power amount information DB are for example a semiconductor memory device such as a random access memory RAM and a flash memory or a storage device such as a hard disk and an optical disc.

The control unit performs processing for managing electric power for retail. The control unit is made for example with an integrated circuit such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and a field programmable gate array FPGA . When an internal central processing unit CPU or an internal micro processing unit MPU executes a computer program stored in an internal storage device in a RAM serving as a working area the control unit functions as a selection information acquisition unit a power consumption amount information acquisition unit a power generation amount information acquisition unit a power generation source selection unit a power generation source control unit and a rate calculation unit .

The configuration of the control unit is not limited thereto and other configuration may be employed so long as it performs information processing described later. The electric power retail management apparatus also includes a reading device not illustrated . The control unit can read a computer program recorded in a recording medium into an internal storage device via the reading device and execute the computer program to implement the functions of the control unit described above. Examples of the recording medium include an optical disc a flexible disk and a hard disk.

The selection information acquisition unit acquires selection information set by the electric power consumer CD from the smart meter of the electric power consumer CD and updates a selection information table stored in the selection information DB . The selection information includes for example a user ID a contract capacity and a contract type.

The selection information table illustrated in indicates that the electric power retailer CA has made a contract with the electric power consumer CD corresponding to the user ID U101 to retail electric power such that the contract capacity is 10 A and the contract type is only solar power generation . The selection information table also indicates that the electric power retailer CA has made a contract with the electric power consumer CD corresponding to the user ID U102 to retail electric power such that the contract capacity is 30 A and the contract type is only natural energy .

The selection information table also indicates that the electric power retailer CA has made a contract with the electric power consumer CD corresponding to the user ID U103 to retail electric power such that the contract capacity is 20 A and the contract type is natural energy 50 and thermal power generation 50 . The selection information table also indicates that the electric power retailer CA has made a contract with the electric power consumer CD corresponding to the user ID U104 to retail electric power such that the contract capacity is 40 A and the contract type is power rate plan A . The power rate plan A is a rate plan that uses electric power from a power generation source having the lowest cost and electric power is supplied by combining the thermal power generation and the nuclear power generation for example.

The selection information acquisition unit updates the selection information table at each time the selection information is received from the smart meter . Accordingly the latest selection information between the electric power retailer CA and the electric power consumer CD is set in the selection information table.

The power consumption amount information acquisition unit acquires information about the power consumption amount of each electric power consumer CD from each smart meter via the communication network and updates a power consumption amount table in the electric power amount information DB .

The information about the power consumption amount set in the power consumption amount table is information to be integrated for each predetermined period TA for example 30 minutes . The power consumption amount at the last time represents a power consumption amount of the electric power consumer CD during the last predetermined period TA and the power consumption amount at this time represents an integrated value of power consumption amounts of the electric power consumer CD after the last predetermined period TA until the current time.

The excessive amount of electric power represents a value obtained by integrating electric power that is used exceeding the contract capacity. The information about the power consumption amount transmitted from the smart meter includes the information about the excessive amount of electric power and the power consumption amount information acquisition unit updates the excessive amount of electric power in the power consumption amount table on the basis of the information about the excessive amount of electric power included in the information about the power consumption amount.

The power generation amount information acquisition unit acquires information about the maximum power generation amount and the power generation amount of each power generation apparatus from the power generation control unit of each power generation apparatus via the communication network and updates a power generation amount table in the electric power amount information DB .

The electric power generating company ID represents identification information of the electric power generating company CE and the type of power generation source represents information indicating a type of the power generator of the power generation apparatus belonging to the electric power generating company CE. The information about the electric power generating company ID and the type of power generation source is set for example in the power generation amount table by the electric power retailer CA after a contract is made between the electric power retailer CA and the electric power generating company CE.

The power generation amount represents information about the power generation amount during the predetermined period TA which is requested by the control unit from each power generation apparatus on the basis of the generated power control information. The maximum power generation amount represents the maximum power generation amount of each power generation apparatus in the next predetermined period TA. The power generation fee represents a purchase fee for generated power per 1 kW.

The power generation source selection unit selects one or more power generation apparatuses for each electric power consumer CD on the basis of the selection information table the power consumption amount table and the power generation amount table. Specifically the power generation source selection unit selects one or more power generation apparatuses corresponding to the selection information as the power generation apparatus for supplying electric power corresponding to the power consumption amount of each electric power consumer CD from among the power generation apparatuses for each electric power consumer CD on the basis of the power generation amount of each power generation apparatus .

When the power generation source selection unit assigns the power generation apparatus to each electric power consumer CD on the basis of the power consumption amount table and the power generation amount table simultaneous commensurate selection is performed. The simultaneous commensurate selection is the selection such that the total power generation amount of the power generation apparatuses of the electric power generating companies CE1 to CEm is commensurate with the total power consumption amount of the electric power consumers CD1 to CDn for each predetermined period TA. The power generation source selection unit predicts the total power consumption amount during the next predetermined period TA on the basis of the total power consumption amount during the current predetermined period TA and performs the simultaneous commensurate selection.

Herein it is assumed that the selection information table is in the state illustrated in the power consumption amount table is in the state illustrated in and the power generation amount table is in the state illustrated in . In this case the power generation source selection unit assigns for example generated power from the power generation apparatus that performs the solar power generation to the electric power consumer CD having the user ID U101 . Examples of the power generation apparatus that performs the solar power generation include the power generation apparatuses having the electric power generating company IDs E101 E106 and E108 and generated power from one or more power generation apparatuses among the above power generation apparatuses is assigned to the electric power consumer CD having the user ID U101 .

For example the power generation source selection unit assigns generated power from the power generation apparatuses that perform the solar power generation the wind power generation and the hydroelectric power generation not pumping to the electric power consumer CD having the user ID U102 . The power generation source selection unit assigns for example generated power from one or more power generation apparatuses among the power generation apparatuses having the electric power generating company IDs E101 to E103 E106 and E108 to the electric power consumer CD having the user ID U102 .

For example the power generation source selection unit assigns generated power to the electric power consumer CD having the user ID U103 so that 50 of the generated power is from the power generation apparatus that performs power generation using natural energy and 50 of the generated power is from the power generation apparatus that performs the thermal power generation. Examples of the power generation using natural energy include the solar power generation the wind power generation and the hydroelectric power generation not pumping . Examples of the thermal power generation include the thermal power generation natural gas the thermal power generation petroleum and the thermal power generation coal .

For example the power generation source selection unit assigns to the electric power consumer CD having the user ID U104 generated power preferentially from the generated power of which the power generation fee is the lowest on the basis of the power generation amount table. For example the power generation source selection unit assigns power generated by the nuclear power generation of the electric power generating company ID E105 of which the power generation fee is the lowest.

In this way on the basis of the selection information table the power consumption amount table and the power generation amount table the power generation source selection unit selects one or more power generation apparatuses of which the type corresponds to the selection information for each electric power consumer CD while controlling the total power consumption amount to be simultaneously commensurate with the total power generation amount. The power generation source selection unit also calculates the amount of electric power to be assigned to each electric power consumer CD from one or more power generation apparatuses of which the type corresponds to the selection information.

The power generation source selection unit selects the power generation apparatus of which the type corresponds to the selection information preferentially from the power generation apparatus of which the power generation fee is the lowest among power generation types corresponding to the selection information. Accordingly profits of the electric power retailer CA can be increased.

If it is determined that the power generation apparatus of which the type corresponds to the selection information cannot be selected the power generation source selection unit selects the generated power from the power generation apparatus of which the type does not correspond to the selection information. For example when the maximum total power generation amount of the solar power generation is lower than the total power consumption amount of the electric power consumer CD the power generation source selection unit selects for part of the electric power consumers CD the generated power from the power generation apparatus of which the type does not correspond to the selection information.

In this case the power generation source selection unit may select as the power generation apparatus of which the type does not correspond to the selection information the power generation apparatus of which the type is similar to the type corresponding to the selection information for example. When the power generation source of the power generation apparatus corresponding to the selection information is the solar power generation for example the similar type to be selected is the power generation apparatus that performs the wind power generation or the geothermal power generation using natural energy as the power generation source.

When selecting the generated power from the power generation apparatus of which the type does not correspond to the selection information the power generation source selection unit stores the amount of the generated power as a power consumption amount that is out of selection in the electric power amount information DR in association with the electric power consumer CD corresponding to the selection information.

The power generation source selection unit assigns the amount of electric power and selects one or more power generation apparatuses of which the type corresponds to the selection information in units of predetermined period TA. Accordingly when the electric power consumer CD transmits the selection information from the smart meter to the electric power retail management apparatus in units of predetermined period TA the generated power of which the type meeting the request from the electric power consumer CD can be provided in units of predetermined period TA.

For example the electric power consumer CD can select the power generation apparatus that performs the solar power generation as the power generation source during a daytime period and can select the power generation apparatus that performs the wind power generation as the power generation source during a nighttime period.

The selection information may include information for changing the type of the power generation apparatus corresponding to a range of the power consumption amount. For example the selection information may be such that the electric power generated by the solar power generation is selected in a range up to 10 A and the electric power generated by the thermal power generation is selected in a range from 10 A to 20 A. When such selection information is set in the selection information table of the electric power consumer CD the power generation source selection unit changes the type of the power generation apparatus corresponding to the power consumption amount of the electric power consumer CD.

The power generation source control unit acquires information about the amount of electric power and the power generation apparatus selected by the power generation source selection unit and generates power supply demand planning information and power generation control information for each electric power generating company CE on the basis of the acquired information for each predetermined period TA. The power generation control information includes information for designating a power generation amount during the next predetermined period TA.

At each time the power supply demand planning information is generated the power generation source control unit transmits the power supply demand planning information to the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network . At each time the power generation control information for each electric power generating company CE is generated the power generation source control unit transmits the power generation control information to the corresponding power generation apparatus .

The rate calculation unit calculates a power rate charged to each electric power consumer CD on the basis of the information about the power consumption amount of each electric power consumer CD set in the power consumption amount table stored in the electric power amount information DB .

When calculating the power rate the rate calculation unit calculates an extra charge to the electric power consumer CD of which the power consumption amount exceeds the maximum power value. The maximum power value is a power value corresponding to the contract capacity. As described above a value integrating electric power that is used exceeding the maximum power value is set in the power consumption amount table as the excessive amount of electric power . The rate calculation unit calculates the extra charge corresponding to the excessive amount of electric power and adds the extra charge to a normal rate to calculate the power rate.

Regarding the electric power consumer CD for whom the generated power from the power generation apparatus of which the type does not correspond to the selection information hereinafter referred to as non selected generated power is selected the rate calculation unit calculates a discount rate for use of the non selected generated power. A consumption amount of the non selected generated power is stored in the electric power amount information DB as the power consumption amount that is out of selection and the rate calculation unit calculates the power rate corresponding to the power consumption amount that is out of selection.

The rate calculation unit may change the discount rate for the use of the non selected generated power depending on a type of the non selected generated power. The rate calculation unit calculates for example the power rate so that the discount rate becomes higher as a degree of similarity to the generated power of which the type corresponds to the selection information becomes lower. Information about the degree of similarity between the power generation sources is stored for example in the electric power amount information DB . The rate calculation unit calculates the discount rate for the use of the non selected generated power on the basis of the information stored in the electric power amount information DB .

Next the following describes a procedure for information processing by the electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment. is a flowchart illustrating an example of the information processing by the electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment. Such processing is repeatedly performed by the control unit of the electric power retail management apparatus .

As illustrated in the control unit of the electric power retail management apparatus determines whether the selection information is acquired from the smart meter of the electric power consumer CD Step S . If it is determined that the selection information is acquired Yes at Step S the control unit updates the selection information table stored in the selection information DB on the basis of the acquired selection information Step S .

If it is determined that the selection information is not acquired No at Step S the control unit determines whether the power consumption amount information is acquired from the smart meter of the electric power consumer CD Step S . If it is determined that the power consumption amount information is acquired Yes at Step S the control unit updates the power consumption amount table stored in the electric power amount information DB on the basis of the acquired power consumption amount information Step S .

If it is determined that the power consumption amount information is not acquired No at Step S the control unit determines whether the power generation amount information is acquired from the power generation apparatus Step S . If it is determined that the power generation amount information is acquired Yes at Step S the control unit updates the power generation amount table stored in the electric power amount information DB on the basis of the acquired power generation amount information Step S .

If it is determined that the power generation amount information is not acquired No at Step S the control unit determines whether it becomes an opportunity for controlling the power generation source Step S . The opportunity for controlling the power generation source is set for example to timing before the current predetermined period TA elapses and when the power generation apparatus can supply the generated power corresponding to the power generation control information to the power transmission and distribution network in the next predetermined period TA.

If it is determined that it becomes the opportunity for controlling the power generation source Yes at Step S the control unit selects the power generation apparatus and the power generation amount for each electric power consumer CD while keeping simultaneous commensurate control Step S . Next the control unit creates the power generation control information and the power supply demand planning information for each power generation apparatus on the basis of the selected power generation apparatus and the power generation amount. Subsequently the control unit transmits the power generation control information to the corresponding power generation apparatus and transmits the power supply demand planning information to the apparatus for managing the power transmission and distribution network Step S .

If the process at Step S is ended or it is determined that it does not become the opportunity for controlling the power generation source at Step S No at Step S the control unit ends the process. The control unit calculates the power rate for each electric power consumer CD on the basis of the selection information table and the power consumption amount table for each predetermined period for example at the end of each month .

In the above embodiment it is assumed that one or more power generation apparatuses can be selected for each of the electric power consumer facilities . Alternatively the smart meter may select one or more power generation apparatuses for each apparatus included in the electric power consumer facilities . For example a refrigerator may select the power generation apparatus that performs the solar power generation and a lighting apparatus or an electric fan may select the power generation apparatus that performs the wind power generation. In this case on the basis of the selection information for each apparatus included in the electric power consumer facilities transmitted from the smart meter the power generation source control unit selects one or more power generation apparatuses corresponding to the selection information from among the power generation apparatuses for each electric power consumer CD.

The electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment includes the selection information DB an example of the selection information storage unit the power consumption amount information acquisition unit the power generation amount information acquisition unit and the power generation source selection unit . The selection information DB stores therein the selection information including the information corresponding to the type of power generation source selected by each of the electric power consumers CD. The power consumption amount information acquisition unit acquires as information about the power consumption amount information about the amount of electric power supplied to the electric power consumers CD from the power transmission and distribution network . The power generation amount information acquisition unit acquires as information about the power generation amount information about the amount of electric power supplied to the power transmission and distribution network from the power generation apparatuses an example of the power generation source . The power generation source selection unit selects as the power generation apparatus for supplying electric power corresponding to the power consumption amount one or more power generation apparatuses of which the type corresponds to the selection information from among the power generation apparatuses for each electric power consumer CD on the basis of the power generation amount for each electric power consumer CD.

Accordingly a virtual electric power transmission path is constructed between each of the electric power consumer facilities and the power generation apparatus of each electric power generating company CE so that the request corresponding to the preference of the electric power consumer CD can be reflected. Accordingly attractive electric power retail service can be provided which enables the number of users to the electric power retail service to be increased.

The selection information also includes a proportion of the amount of electric power for each type of the power generation apparatus selected by the electric power consumer CD. The power generation source selection unit selects one or more power generation apparatuses of which the type corresponds to the selection information on the basis of the power consumption amount of the electric power consumer CD and the proportion of the amount of electric power in the selection information.

Accordingly various requests to the type of power generation source of the electric power consumer CD can be met so that attractive electric power retail service can be provided.

The electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment also includes the electric power amount information DB an example of a maximum power information storage unit and the rate calculation unit . The electric power amount information DB stores therein information about the maximum power value for each electric power consumer CD. The rate calculation unit calculates an extra charge for the electric power consumer CD of which the power consumption amount exceeds the maximum power value.

Accordingly for example the extra charge can be charged to the electric power consumer CD who has used the electric power exceeding the contract capacity which motivates the electric power consumer CD to avoid using the electric power exceeding the contract capacity. A contract capacity lower than a capacity of a breaker can be set without changing the breaker that has been already installed in the electric power consumer facilities .

If it is determined that the power generation apparatus of which the type corresponds to the selection information cannot be selected the power generation source selection unit selects the power generation apparatus of which the type is other than the type corresponding to the selection information.

Accordingly the simultaneous commensurate control can be kept so that it is possible to avoid a situation to purchase relatively expensive electric power from the electric power company CB for example.

The electric power retail management apparatus according to the embodiment also includes the selection information acquisition unit that acquires the selection information transmitted from each smart meter of the electric power consumers CD and stores the selection information in the selection information DB .

Accordingly the electric power consumer CD can easily and quickly set the selection information to the electric power retail management apparatus .

The selection information acquisition unit acquires the selection information for each predetermined period TA from each of the smart meters of the electric power consumers CD. The power generation source selection unit selects one or more power generation apparatuses of which the type corresponds to the selection information for each predetermined period TA.

Accordingly the electric power retail management apparatus can provide generated power of which the type corresponds to the request from the electric power consumer CD in units of predetermined period TA.

The electric power retail management apparatus described above may be made with a plurality of server computers. The configuration thereof may be flexibly modified such that some functions are implemented by calling an external platform and the like through an application programming interface API network computing and the like.

According to an aspect of the embodiment provided are the electric power retail management method and the electric power retail management apparatus that can reflect the preference of the electric power consumer.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

