---

title: System and method for extraction of hair follicle
abstract: Systems and methods for extracting hair follicle from underneath an external surface of the skin are provided. The systems may include a first member and a counter pressure device. The first member may define a first bore and may have a longitudinal axis. A portion of the first member may be configured to be moved below an external surface of a skin. The first member may be configured to translate at least in a first direction along the longitudinal axis through a tissue and rotate about the longitudinal axis. The counter pressure device may be configured to interface with at least the external surface of the skin such that the tissue is disposed between the first member and the counter pressure device. The translation and rotation of the first member may result in cutting at least a portion of the tissue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09314082&OS=09314082&RS=09314082
owner: PiloFocus, Inc.
number: 09314082
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140508
---
This application claims the benefit of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 821 098 filed May 8 2013 and is entitled HAIR RESTORATION.

This application is a Continuation in part of pending prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 654 252 filed Oct. 17 2012 bearing publication number 2013 0096600 and is entitled HAIR RESTORATION which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 673 143 filed Jul. 18 2012 and is entitled HAIR RESTORATION.

This application is a Continuation in part of pending prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 496 905 filed Sep. 17 2010 bearing publication number 2012 0215231 and is entitled HAIR RESTORATION SURGERY which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 243 271 filed Sep. 17 2009.

The present disclosure relates to technique for extracting a target hair follicle from a donor site. More particularly but not exclusively the present disclosure relates to extracting the hair follicle from underneath an external surface of the skin.

Hair restoration may be carried out by extracting hair follicular units from the patient s donor area and transplanting them in the patient s recipient area which may be a thinning area. Generally the donor area is at the back and sides of the scalp.

Conventionally a strip of tissues may be removed from the donor area. The strip may be then dissected into individual follicular units. The units may then be transplanted into the recipient area. It has been observed that application of this technique results in a linear scar formed at the donor area.

In another conventional technique a hair follicle is extracted by punching a hole around the hair follicle and then extracting the hair follicle. The hole is punched through the external surface of the skin. It has been observed that application of this technique may result in dotted scars formed at the donor area. Further in this technique the hair follicle may be transected as the punch may not be aligned with the alignment of the hair follicle.

In light of the foregoing discussion there may be a need to reduce scarring in the donor site and reduce transection or denuding of hair follicle during extraction.

After the preparation of follicular unit grafts doctors make tiny holes in the patient s scalp at the recipient area where grafts are placed. The positioning and arrangement of follicular units depends upon aesthetic qualities of a hair transplant case by case basis depending on the patients history of hair loss and likelihood of future hair loss.

Francisco Jimenez MD Ander Izeta PhD and Enrique Poblet MD. Morphometric Analysis of the Human Scalp Hair Follicle Practical Implications for the Hair Transplant Surgeon and Hair Regeneration Studies 4021 37 58 64. This document is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure may relate to extracting hair follicles from underneath an external surface of the skin without punching holes through the external surface of the skin.

The following description illustrates principles which may be applied in various ways to provide many different alternative embodiments. This description is not meant to limit the inventive concepts in the appended claims. The principles structures techniques and methods disclosed herein may be adapted for use in other situations where a target tissue portion is to be extracted from a tissue region. For example the present technology may be adapted for use in dermatology cosmetic surgery and or general surgery. Although this disclosure focuses on extraction of head hair for subsequent transplantation the disclosed technology also applies to extraction of hair follicles from other parts of the human body such as the arm pit and pelvic regions for the purpose of permanent hair removal. This technology also applies to extraction of other tissues such as extraction of pathological tissues in the deeper layers of the skin or other body tissues biopsy and or removal of tissue being one example.

While exemplary embodiments of the present technology have been shown and described in detail below it will be clear to the person skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from its scope. As such that which is set forth in the following description and accompanying drawings is offered by way of illustration only and not as a limitation. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate upon reading and understanding this disclosure that other variations for the technology described herein can be included within the scope of the present technology.

Referring to a device or system may be used for extracting hair follicles from underneath an external surface of the skin . The system may be used with a system which may be used for altering the alignment of hair follicles or tissue. The system may be configured such that a portion of the system may be inserted under the skin to access and or cut through a tissue at a donor region of the head. The system may include a first member which may be used to extract a portion of the hair follicle. The system may further include a tissue stabilizing member which may be configured to apply pressure against or around a tissue comprising a hair follicle. The system may be inserted into an area underneath the external surface of the skin by making an incision on the external surface of the skin proximal or at the donor region . The first member and the tissue stabilizing member may enter the area underneath the external surface of the skin . The first member may include a cutting edge configured to cut through the tissue. The system may be positioned external to the overlying surface of the skin opposite to the first member . The system may include a counter pressure device configured to interface with the external surface of the skin such that the tissue having the hair follicle is disposed between the counter pressure device and the tissue stabilizing member such that the tissue stabilizing member is disposed underneath the external surface of the skin and the counter pressure device is disposed over the external surface of the skin .

The system for extracting hair follicles from underneath an external surface of the skin may include a first member and a second member. The first member and the second member may be configured to be moved underneath the skin. The first member may be a cylindrical shaft defining a first bore and having a cutting edge at its distal end. The second member may also be a cylindrical shaft configured to receive the first member. The second member may include a pair of arms towards its distal end. Both the first member and the second member may be configured to rotate about its longitudinal axis and also translate along its longitudinal axis. The system may include a tissue stabilizing member. The tissue stabilizing member may press around the tissue having the hair follicle from underneath the skin. The first member may translate towards the tissue while being rotated. As the first member translates into the tissue the tissue is cut or cored by the cutting edge of the first member and may create a channel in which the cut or cored tissue may be disposed. Subsequently the second member may be translated relative to the first member. The relative translation of the second member may enable the arms of the second member to extend into the first bore of the first member through apertures provided on the cylindrical body of the first member close to its distal end. The arms of the second member may meet inside the first bore of the first member thereby clipping the tissue that has been cut or cored by the first member. The tissue or the hair follicle may be aligned for example by the system with the longitudinal axis of the first member before cutting the tissue.

Referring to the system may include a first member . The first member may be a first means for cutting or coring a tissue. The first member may be a coring cannula. The first member may be configured to be moved below an external surface of the skin. The first member may be a cylindrical member formed of two sub parts. The first part may be a coring cannula base and the second part may be a coring cannula . The first member may instead be a monolithic part. The coring cannula base and the coring cannula may be engaged assembled and or mated to form the first member . The first member may define a first bore extending from a distal end to a proximal end of the first member along the longitudinal axis of the first member .

A cutting edge may be defined at the distal end . The cutting edge may be configured to cut through the tissue. A portion of the external cylindrical surface of the first member towards the distal end may be inclined or may converge towards the longitudinal axis until it reaches the cutting edge to define a conical configuration .

The first member may include at least one slot any number of slots may be provided or at least one aperture. Alternatively the first member may include a pair of slots and a pair of apertures . The slots may be recessed into the external surface of the first member close to the distal end as compared to the proximal end . The slots may be disposed diametrically opposite to each other or may be placed in any variety of configurations.

Each of the apertures may be defined between the cutting edge and the slots . The apertures may be defined diametrically opposite to each other. Each of the apertures may adjoin corresponding slots . The aperture may be defined such that an arched edge bulging towards the slot may be defined on the external surface . The edge may be arched non arched or may include any other structure or surface profile in order to form the edge . The aperture may be defined by an inclined surface disposed between the arched edge and an inside surface of the first member .

A threaded surface may be defined at the proximal end of the first member . A shoulder may be defined adjacent to the threaded surface . The shoulder may define one or more slots .

Provision of the coring cannula that may be adapted with the coring cannula base may enable replacement of the coring cannula with an alternate coring cannula which may have a desired cutting diameter.

Referring to the system may include a second member . The second member may be a second means for clipping the tissue. The second member may be formed of two components namely a clipping cannula base and a clipping cannula . Alternatively the second member may be a monolithic part. The second member may have a proximal end and a distal end . The clipping cannula and the clipping cannula base may be engaged for example by friction fit welding or other connection to form the second member such that the clipping cannula is disposed towards the distal end . The clipping cannula may define an annular ring over its external surface. The annular ring may interface with the edge of the clipping cannula base thereby restricting the clipping cannula base from sliding further towards the distal end of the second member .

At the proximal end of the second member one or more longitudinally extending engagement protrusions may be provided. The engagement protrusions may be received by the slots defined in the shoulder provided in the first member so that the torque from the first member is transferred to the second member . The engagement protrusions and slots configuration may enable alignment of the arms with the slots . An annular protrusion may be provided adjacent to the engagement protrusions.

At the distal end of the second member one or more arms may be provided. In the figures a pair of arms is illustrated. The pair of arms may define a tip at the distal end . The pair of arms may be disposed diametrically opposite to each other. Each arm may have a first portion that may be parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second member . Further the arm may include a second portion which may also be parallel to the longitudinal axis . However the second portion may be closer to the longitudinal axis as compared to the first portion . The arm may include an intermediate portion which may be inclined and may be present between the first portion and the second portion . An inner surface of the second portion may define one or more protrusions extending towards the longitudinal axis . The protrusions may reduce friction while sliding the second member or the arm over the slot provided in the first member . The protrusions may facilitate bending of the arms towards the longitudinal axis when the second member is slid over the first member .

The tip may define a slanted surface . The slanted surface may compliment the slanted or inclined surface defining the aperture in the first member . The slanted surface of the tip may interface and slide against the inclined surface of the first member when the second member is slid. The interface between the slanted surfaces may enable the arms to translate in to the first bore towards the longitudinal axis .

Referring to the system may include an adapter . The adapter may have a proximal end and a distal end . The adapter may include a first portion a second portion a third portion and a fourth portion . The first portion may be provided towards the distal end and may define a hexagonal cross section. The second portion may adjoin the first portion and may define a circular cross section. An annular shoulder may be provided in the second portion towards the third portion and may have a diameter greater than the diameter of rest of the second portion . The third portion may be adjacent to the annular shoulder and may define a circular cross section. The fourth portion may be adjacent to the third portion and may define a circular cross section.

The radial distance of external surface of each of the first portion the second portion a third portion and a fourth portion from a longitudinal axis of the adapter may be different from each of the portions such that a step is formed between two adjacent external surfaces.

The third portion may define one or more apertures . A pair of apertures is illustrated in the figures. The apertures may be defined diametrically opposite to each other. The aperture may be in the form of an opening provided through the external surface of the adapter such that the aperture defines an oblong or oval configuration from a top view. The opening may define a U shaped configuration from a side view such that the arms of the U shaped configuration diverge as they extend away from the horizontal portion of the U shaped configuration. The edges of the aperture may be curved without defining hard angles thereby preventing damage to hair follicles that may pass through the aperture .

The adapter may define a bore extending from the distal end until the aperture . The bore may have a threaded surface at the distal end to facilitate engagement with the threads of the first member .

The adapter may further define another bore extending from the proximal end towards the aperture however the bore may terminate before reaching aperture such that the bore has only one opening at the proximal end . A portion of the inner surface defining the bore may define a polygonal cross section. A power shaft illustrated in may be received in the bore such that the power shaft is capable of translating in the bore while transferring torque to the adapter owing to the polygonal cross section of the portion of the hole .

Referring to the system may include a power shaft . The power shaft may have a distal end and a proximal end . A first portion may be provided towards the distal end . A second portion may be defined such that it starts from one end of the first portion and extends until the proximal end .

The first portion may define a hexagonal cross section or polygonal cross section. The first portion may be received by the bore defined in the adapter . The polygonal cross section of the first portion may enable transferring of the torque to the adapter when the power shaft is rotated. The second portion may define a circular cross section and may be engaged to a power tool that is capable of rotating the power shaft . The power shaft may be a part of a power tool.

Referring to the system may include a carriage . The carriage may include two sub parts namely a first part and a second part . Alternatively the carriage may be made as a single unit. The carriage may have a longitudinal axis and a bore may be defined along the longitudinal axis . The bore may define a first bearing engagement surface a plurality of o ring engagement surfaces a retention ring engagement surface . The bore may define a chamber between the plurality of o ring engagement surfaces such that the third portion having the aperture of the adapter may be encompassed in the chamber . An outlet port and a flush port may be defined such that the outlet port and the flush port are in fluidic communication with the chamber . Each of the outlet port and the flush port may include a protrusion extending from an outer surface of the carriage .

A first pillar and a second pillar may extend laterally from a cylindrical outer surface of the carriage . The first pillar and the second pillar may be configured such that a gap may be defined between the first pillar and the second pillar . The first part may have a proximal end and a distal end . Near the distal end of the first part a slot may be provided which may extend from the outer surface towards the bore .

The first part may have an internally threaded surface at the proximal end . The threaded configuration may terminate before extending into the chamber . The second part may include an external threaded surface towards the distal end . The external surface of rest of the second part may define a polygonal cross section.

When the first part and the second part are assembled an annular groove may be defined which may receive an O ring.

Referring to the system may include a first connecting member . The first connecting member may have a superior end an inferior end a distal end and a proximal end .

The first connecting member may include a cavity a threaded hole a first slot a pair of second slots a third slot and a pair of pin holes .

The cavity may be defined in the superior inferior direction. The pair of second slots may be through slots that are open towards the superior side and may be disposed opposite to each other. The surface of the first connecting member that may define the cavity may also define the pair of second slots . A post may extend from a portion of the first connecting member that defines the cavity in the inferior direction. The third slot may be defined between the portion of the first connecting member that defines the cavity and a protrusion extending in the inferior direction. The third slot may be open on the inferior side and on one of the lateral sides. A portion of the first connecting member disposed over the third slot may define a threaded bore . The threaded bore may extend from the proximal end towards the distal end such that an end of the bore is exposed to the cavity . A portion of the first connecting member disposed over the threaded bore may include a pair of arms . The pair of arms may be parallel to each other and may be spaced apart to define the first slot . The pair of arms may extend in the superior direction. Each of the arms may define a pin hole such that the pin holes defined in the arms may oppose each other. The first connecting member may form a part of a locking assembly.

Referring to the system may include a stop which may be received by the cavity defined in the first connecting member . The stop may have a proximal end a distal end a superior end and an inferior end . A through hole may be defined laterally extending across a longitudinal axis of the stop . A first slot may be defined by a recessed surface disposed towards the proximal end . The first slot may terminate before it reaches the hole such that a first supporting wall may be formed. A cavity may be defined from the inferior end towards the superior end and may terminate before reaching the through hole . The longitudinal axis of the cavity may be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the through hole .

A portion of the stop towards its superior side may include a first seat a second seat and a block wall . The first seat and the second seat may define a concave configuration which may be configured to interface with a component defining a complimentary configuration. The second seat and the first seat may be generally horizontal while the block wall may be vertically disposed. The second seat the block wall and the first seat may define a cascade configuration. The stop may form a part of the locking assembly.

Referring to the system may include a first arm that may be connected to the first member through the first connecting member . The first arm may have a proximal end a distal end and a longitudinal axis . The first arm may be cylindrical shaft. A pair of slots may be defined on either sides of the longitudinal axis which may define a pair of adapting surfaces on either sides of the longitudinal axis . A through hole may be defined having a longitudinal axis which may be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis . The through hole may extend between the slots . The first arm may have a threaded portion towards its proximal end . The region near the distal end of the first arm may define a cylindrical shoulder . The cylindrical shoulder may define an engaging surface . The engaging surface may face the proximal end .

Referring to the system may include a second connecting member configured to connect the second member with the second arm . The second connecting member may include one or more handles and an arm .

The arm may define a C shaped configuration. The arm may have an inner surface which may be recessed to define a groove . The groove may be configured to receive a bearing.

The handle may be disposed towards the superior side of the second connecting member . A through slot extending through opposing surfaces of the handle may be defined in the handle . A plurality of holes may be defined in the handle such that the holes are exposed to the slot .

Referring to the system may include a second arm configured to be connected to the second member using the second connecting member . The second arm may be a cylindrical shaft having an external surface a proximal end a distal end a first post a second post a first bore a second bore a first aperture and a pair of second apertures . The first post and the second post may extend laterally from the external surface in opposite directions. The first bore may extend from the distal end towards the proximal end along the longitudinal axis of the second arm . The second bore may extend from the proximal end towards the distal end along the longitudinal axis of the second arm until it meets the first bore . The second bore may have a diameter that may be smaller than the diameter of the first bore . The difference in diameter of the first bore and the second may create a step . The first aperture may be a through hole extending through the cylindrical external surface of the second arm . The first aperture may be closer to the distal end as compared to the proximal end .

The first post and the second post may be closer to the proximal end as compared to the distal end . The first post may extend laterally in the superior direction while the second post may extend laterally in the inferior direction. One or more second apertures may be defined in the second post to facilitate engagement with the second connecting member .

Referring to an adjustment sleeve may be provided for engagement with the second arm . The adjustment sleeve may be internally threaded . The adjustment sleeve may be engaged with the second arm having threads. The adjustment sleeve may include a first set of apertures extending from the external surface of the adjustment sleeve towards the internal surface of the adjustment sleeve . The apertures may be defined around the diameter of the adjustment sleeve . The adjustment sleeve may include a second set of apertures extending from the external surface of the adjustment sleeve towards the internal surface of the adjustment sleeve . The apertures may be defined around the diameter of the adjustment sleeve . The first set of apertures may be offset along the longitudinal axis of the adjustment sleeve with respect to the second set of apertures . The apertures may enable operating the adjustment sleeve to adjust the placement of the adjustment sleeve relative to the a second arm . The adjustment sleeve may form a part of the locking assembly.

Referring to a stationary arm may be configured to receive the second arm . The stationary arm may be a cylindrical member having a proximal end a distal end an external surface an engagement feature a pair of slots a first bore a pair of opposing through holes and a second bore . The first bore may extend from the proximal end towards the distal end along a longitudinal axis of the stationary arm . The first bore may have an opening at the proximal end and may terminate before reaching the distal end . The termination of the first aperture before reaching the distal end may result in the formation of a supporting wall . The internal diameter of the first bore may be larger than the external diameter of the second arm thereby enabling the second arm to be received within the first bore and allowing the second arm to translate along the first bore . The pair of slots may be defined to oppose each other and may extend from the external surface into the first bore . A flange may be defined on the external surface and may be provided between the slots and the proximal end . The pair of opposing through holes may extend from the external surface into the first bore . The pair of holes may be defined between the flange and the proximal end . The second bore may be defined between the slots and the distal end . The engagement feature may be provided towards the distal end . The engagement feature may include a pair of recessed portions a neck portion a head portion and a second recessed portion . The head portion may be a cylindrical shaped body provided towards the distal end . The neck portion may be provided between a portion of the arm that defines the recess and the head portion . The neck portion may have a diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the head portion . The pair of recessed portions may be disposed on opposite sides of the external surface . The recess may define a V or U shaped configuration. The second recessed portion may be defined on the cylindrical surface of the head portion . The second recessed portion may be defined a D shaped configuration. The engagement feature may enable the stationary arm to be engaged with a component or system that may include a pair of paddles.

Referring to the system may include a second arm cap . The second arm cap may be engaged with the second arm . The second arm cap may include a shaft and a head . A through hole may be defined in the shaft . The through hole may be defined perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis of the shaft . The head may have a diameter that is larger than the diameter of the first bore defined in the second arm at its distal end . The shaft may be received into the second arm through an opening at it distal end . The head may rest against or disposed outside the opening at the distal end of the second arm .

Referring to the system may include two pairs of paddle link members . The paddle link member may have a proximal end and a distal end . The link member may define two through holes. A first through hole may be defined closer to the proximal end and may extend through two opposing surfaces of the link member . A second through hole may be defined closer to the distal end and may extend through the two opposing surfaces of the link member .

Referring to the system may include a pair of first paddle members . The first paddle member may include a first paddle and a pair of link members . The first paddle may be an oblong shaped body having a first surface and an opposing second surface . A third surface may extend between the first surface and the second surface . The first paddle may be designed to define a shape or topography that may facilitate a user to hold on to the paddles for example using four fingers leaving the thumb of each of his hands and pull the paddles towards a pair of second paddles illustrated in . The first surface may define a concave curvature that may facilitate a user to hold on to the paddles and apply the desired force. The link members may extend from the third surface laterally on the same side of the third surface . The paddle link members may be spaced apart. Each pair of link members may define two through holes. A first through hole may be defined closer to the intersection between the link member and the third surface and may extend through two opposing surfaces of the link member . A second through hole may be defined closer to the free end of the link member and may extend through the two opposing surfaces of the link member . Further one or more slots may be defined on the first surface . The slots may be configured to facilitate better gripping of the first paddle by a user. The slots may receive one or more loops straps Velcro levers or other structure that may enable advancing and or retracting or even omnidirectional control handling or manipulation of the paddles . The slots may be substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the first paddle . The slots may be in line with the direction in which the fingers are held while engaging the paddles . The slots may extend through the first surface and the second surface .

Referring to the system may include multiple link member pins . The link member pin may be received by through holes defined in the paddle link members. Each link member pin may define an annular groove closer to each of the ends of the link member pin . Each of the grooves may be configured to receive a retaining ring thereby ensuring that the pin is not disengaged from the link members and or .

Referring to the system may include an external supporting member . The external supporting member may include an arch portion a pair of second paddles an elongated housing . The arch may define a first aperture a second aperture a third aperture and fourth aperture . The first aperture may be configured to accommodate a counter pressure device illustrated in . The first aperture may be provided towards the inferior end of the external supporting member . The second aperture may be provided above the first aperture . The second aperture may be provided towards the superior end of the external supporting member . The third aperture and the fourth may be provided adjacent to the first aperture and on either sides of the first aperture . As a result of providing the first aperture the second aperture the third aperture and the fourth aperture a first inner surface a second inner surface a third inner surface and a fourth inner surface respectively may be defined. A first threaded hole may be provided extending from the first inner surface to the second inner surface . A second threaded hole may extend from the first inner surface to the third inner surface . A third threaded hole may be provided extending from the first inner surface to the fourth inner surface .

A pair of second paddles may be connected to the arch . Each of the second paddles may be disposed on either sides of the vertical axis of the arch . The external supporting member may include an elongated housing . The elongated housing may be provided between the two paddles .

The second paddle may be a P shaped body having a first surface and an opposing second surface which may face the first pair of paddle members . The second paddles may be disposed such that they form a mirror image of each other. The paddle may be designed to define a shape or topography that may facilitate a user to hold on to the paddles for example using thumb of each of his hands and pulling the paddles of first paddle members towards the second paddles . The first surface may define a concave curvature towards the superior end of the paddle . The longitudinal axis of the concave curvature may be oblique to the longitudinal axis of the paddle . The concave curvature may facilitate pressing of the user s thumb against the surface that defines the concave curvature . The length of the concave curvature may be such that a major portion of the thumb may be supported. The concave curvature on the first surface may define a surface having a suitable length curvature and angle of inclination to compliment the shape and length of the thumb and the angle at which the user holds and presses the thumb against the paddle .

The second aperture may extend from the arch into and through the elongated housing . Near the proximal end of the second aperture an annular slot may be defined. Near the proximal end of the elongated housing a pair of protrusions may be provided. The protrusions may be in the form of V or U shaped extensions which may compliment the recessed portions provided in the stationary member . On top of the elongated housing a protrusion may be provided such that it may be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the second aperture . The protrusion may further define a threaded hole which may meet the second aperture in the elongated housing .

The external supporting member may include a counter pressure device . The counter pressure device may be engaged with the external supporting member such that a surface of the external supporting member interfaces with and presses against the external surface of the skin while in use. Referring to the counter pressure device may be a circular plate with a targeting aperture which may be defined at the center of the plate. The counter pressure device may further define piercing member accommodation opening defined on both sides of the targeting aperture . The piercing members may translate to and fro through the piercing member accommodation opening . Further the piercing member accommodation opening may define an oblong shape so that the piercing members may pivot while the piercing members have extended through the piercing member accommodation opening counter pressure device .

The counter pressure device may define a pair of pivot holes . The longitudinal axis of the pivot holes may be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the targeting aperture . The pivot holes may be defined such that a surface of the counter pressure device that interfaces with the skin is flush without protrusions.

The counter pressure device may apply pressure to over or around the tissue comprising hair follicle when it is held against the external surface of the skin.

The counter pressure device may be connected or engaged or integral to an arm . The arm and the counter pressure device may be engaged with the external supporting member . The arm may include a cylindrical body a pillar and an extending member . The arm may be configured to be operable to at least partially rotate about an axis of the external supporting member .

The cylindrical body may include a groove on its external surface such that the groove aligns with the holes defined the external supporting member when assembled. The arm may be engaged with the external supporting member by means of engagement screws which may be passed through the holes defined in the external supporting member such that a part of the engagement screws are received by the groove .

Referring to the system may include a guide plate . The guide plate may be rectangular in shape whose corners may be filleted. The guide plate may include a first slot a second slot a third slot and a plurality of holes .

The first slot second slot and third slot may be through slots. The first slot may be defined between the second slot and the third slot . The second slot may be defined near the proximal superior side of the guide plate while the third slot may be defined near the distal inferior side of the guide plate . The second slot and the third slot may have uniform width and length. The plurality of holes may be defined opposite to the second slot and may be on the same side of the third slot .

The first slot may define a first region a second region and a third region . The first region may be close to a proximal end of the guide plate . The third region may be close to a distal end of the guide plate . The second region may be intermediate the first region and the third region . The first region may have the first width and the third region may have a third width . The first width may be smaller than the third width . The second region may have a width that is same as the first width at first end and a width that is same as the third width at the opposite second end. The width of the second region may gradually change from first width to third width . The gradual change in width in the second region may define a curved surface . The curved surface may be defined in the superior edge of the first slot whereas the inferior edge of the slot may define a straight line.

Referring to the system may include a cover member . The cover member may be configured to receive the first member and the second member . The cover member may be a cylindrical tube having a proximal end and a distal end . The cover member may define a bore along its longitudinal axis extending from the proximal end to the distal end . The distal end of the cover member may include a U shaped slot defined on its cylindrical body. The slot may extend from the edge at the distal end of the cover member along the longitudinal axis of the cover member and thereafter turn towards the distal end of the cover member and terminate before reaching the edge at the distal end thereby defining the U shape. The cover member may have a pair of such slots defined on diametrically opposing sides of the cylindrical body.

The cover member may have an inner surface and an outer surface . A channel may be defined between the inner surface and the outer surface such that fluid may be passed through the channel . The channel may be defined between the proximal end and the distal end . The channel may extend from the proximal end until the distal end . An aperture may be defined in the cover member . The aperture may extend from the outer surface into the channel . The fluid may be passed into the channel through the aperture . The aperture may be defined closer to the proximal end than the distal end .

The inner surface of the cover member may define a stepped configuration such that bushing may be accommodated in the stepped configuration. The bushing may define a channel that may be in fluidic communication with the channel .

A flange may be defined on the outer surface closer to the proximal end . A pair of opposing slots may be defined by the cover member . Each of the slots may be defined on diametrically opposing sides of the cover member . Each slot may start from the edge of the cover member at the proximal end and may terminate before reaching the flange .

Referring to the system may include a tissue stabilizing member . The tissue stabilizing member may be moved below the external surface of the skin. The tissue stabilizing member may translate parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first member or the longitudinal axis of a cover member . The tissue stabilizing member may apply pressure at least around the tissue disposed between the tissue stabilizing member and the counter pressure device . The tissue stabilizing member may be engaged with the cover member .

The tissue stabilizing member may define a substantially cylindrical shape. The tissue stabilizing member may have a proximal end and a distal end . The tissue stabilizing member may define a bore extending from the proximal end until the distal end . A flange may be defined on an inner surface of the tissue stabilizing member such that the inside diameter of tissue stabilizing member at the flange and beyond is smaller than the inside diameter of the tissue stabilizing member at the proximal end . The bore defined between the proximal end and the flange may be configured to receive a compression member such as a spring. The compression member may press against the flange when the tissue stabilizing member is pushed in to the cover member . A pair of slots may be defined on a face of the tissue stabilizing member . The pair of slots may enable piercing members which may have pierced into a tissue through an external surface of the skin to pivot even if the piercing members have pierced beyond the distal end of the tissue stabilizing member . The tissue stabilizing member may include a pair of pins laterally extending from an outer surface of the tissue stabilizing member in opposing directions. The pins may be received in the U shaped slots defined in the cover member thereby enabling the tissue stabilizing member to translate parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first member or the longitudinal axis of the cover member .

Referring to a housing assembly may be provided. The housing assembly may include a first component and a second component . The first component may include a first portion and a second portion . The second portion may be disposed above the first portion . The second component may include a third portion and a fourth portion . The fourth portion may be disposed above the third portion . The first component and the second component may be assembled such that the first portion comes in contact with the third portion and the second portion coming in contact with the fourth portion . The housing assembly may include a proximal end and a distal end . The housing assembly may define a first bore extending from the proximal end until the distal end in the region of the first portion and the third portion . A second bore may be defined which may extend through the second portion and the fourth portion . The bore may be parallel to the second bore . A hollow region may be defined in between the first bore and the second bore extending longitudinally. A first slot may be defined such that the first slot extends longitudinally from the edge of the first bore at the distal end . The first slot may extend from an outer surface of the first portion into the first bore . An outer surface of the first portion from where the first bore begins at the distal end defines an externally threaded portion . An outer surface of the second portion from where the second bore begins at the distal end may define an externally threaded portion . A second slot may be defined at the superior end of the housing assembly in the region of second portion and the fourth portion such that the second slot may extend until it reaches the second through hole . A third slot may be defined at the inferior end of the housing assembly in the region of the first portion and the third portion such that the third slot may be extended until it reaches the first bore . A pair of fourth slots may be defined on lateral sides of the housing assembly . One of the fourth through slot may be defined in the second portion and the other fourth through slot may be defined in the fourth portion . The fourth slots may oppose each other and may be exposed to the hollow region of the housing assembly . The first bore may include several sections that may vary in dimension and diameter along its length. Similarly the second bore may include several sections that may vary in dimension and diameter along its length. A protrusion may be provided on top of the first component near the distal end which may define a threaded hole . Plurality of engagement holes may be provided in housing assembly to facilitate assembly of at least the first component the second component and various other components received in the housing assembly . A fifth through slot and a sixth through slot may be defined in the third portion . The first slot the fifth slot and the sixth slot may enable translatory movement of various ports that may be used to establish a fluid pathway in the system . A seventh slot may be provided at the superior side of the housing assembly . The seventh slot may be defined across the second slot . The seventh slot may facilitate adjustment of position of the adjustment sleeve with respect to the second arm .

Now reference may be made to . The first member may be engaged with the adapter . The threaded surface or threaded portion is engaged with the internal thread provided in the adapter . Rotation of the adapter may result in rotation of the first member . The translatory movement of the first member may result in translatory movement of the adapter .

The adapter may be engaged with the power shaft . The first portion of the power shaft which may have a polygonal cross section may be received in the bore defined in the adapter . At least a portion of the bore may have a polygonal cross section. The first portion may translate along the bore . Rotation of the power shaft may result in rotation of the adapter . The second portion of the power shaft may engage with a power tool . The second portion of the adapter may engage with a bearing .

The first part of the carriage may be threadably engaged with the second part of the carriage . The assembly of first part and the second part may be referred to as carriage . The carriage may house the adapter and a portion of the power shaft . The bearing may be received in the bearing engagement groove . O rings may be received in the O ring engagement grooves . Another O ring may be received in the annular groove defined between the first part and the second part . A retention ring may be received in the retention ring engagement groove .

The first connecting member may be accommodated on the carriage . The protrusion is received in the gap of the carriage . The third slot receives the first pillar of the carriage . The post may be received by the slot of the carriage . Such an engagement of the first connecting member with the carriage may prevent relative translatory motion.

A spring may be received in the cavity of the first connecting member . The stop may be placed over the spring such that the spring is also received by the cavity defined in the stop. This may be part of the locking assembly.

A threaded screw may engage with the threaded hole of the first connecting member . An end of the screw may interface with the first supporting wall of the stop . The first slot of the first connecting member may receive the adapting surface of the first arm . A pin may be received through the through hole provided in the first arm and pin holes provided in the first connecting member . The pin may facilitate engagement of the first arm with the first connecting member . A pin may be received in the through hole of the stop such that the pin may translate along the first slot of the guide plates .

A threaded adjustment knob may be engaged with the first arm at its threaded portion . The threaded adjustment knob may be a depth limiting means for configuring a distance between the distal end of the channel created in the tissue by the first member and the external surface of the skin .

The first member may be received by or engaged to the second member . A portion of the first member is received inside the second bore defined in the second member . The arms of the second member may rest over the slots provided in the first member . The protrusions provided in the arms may interface with the surface of the slot . The engagement protrusions of the second member may be received in the slots of the first member . A bearing may receive the annular protrusion of the second member . The bearing may adapted with the second connecting member . The bearing may be received in the groove defined in the second connecting member .

The second connecting member may be engaged with the second arm . The through slot of the second connecting member may receive the second post of the second arm . Pins may be passed through the second apertures of the second arm and holes of the second connecting member .

The adjustment sleeve may be engaged with the second arm . The adjustment sleeve may be engaged with the threaded portion of the second arm .

A portion of the first arm may be accommodated in the first bore and the second bore of the second arm . The cylindrical shoulder of the first arm may be accommodated in the first bore and the proximal end of the first arm may extend out of the second bore of the second arm . The proximal end of the first arm may even extend out of the proximal end of the second bore of the housing .

The second arm cap may be engaged with the second arm . The shaft of the second arm cap may be configured to be adapted in the first bore of the second arm such that the head of the second arm cap may fit flush with the edge of the second arm at the distal end of the second arm .

A clipping spring or a first compressible means may be accommodated in the first bore of the second arm such that the clipping spring may be disposed between the step or intersection of the first bore and second bore of the second arm and the engaging surface of the cylindrical shoulder of the first arm . The clipping spring may enclose a portion of the cylindrical shaft of the first arm .

A portion of the second arm may be received by the stationary arm . The first aperture of the stationary arm may accommodate at least a part of the cylindrical portion of the second arm . The link member pin may be received by the pair of slots of the stationary arm . The link member pin may pass through the through hole of the second arm cap . Another link member pin may be received by the second aperture of the stationary arm . A spring or second compressible means may be accommodated in the first bore of the stationary arm such that the spring may be disposed between the head of the second arm cap and the supporting wall of the stationary arm .

The stationary arm may be engaged with the external supporting member . The head portion of the stationary arm may be received by the elongated housing . An elastic ring or garter spring or canted coil spring such as a Bal Seal Canted Coil Spring may be received in the annular slot of the elongated housing such that the engage elastic ring surround the neck portion of the engagement feature of the stationary arm . A screw may be received by the threaded hole of the external supporting member and a tip of the screw may interface with the second recess portion of the stationary arm such that the relative motion of the stationary arm may be prevented with respect to the external supporting member . The counter pressure device may be engaged with the external supporting member . The counter pressure device may be received in the first aperture defined in the external supporting member .

The first paddles may be operatively engaged with stationary arm and the second arm . Each of the first paddles may be disposed on laterally opposing sides of the stationary arm . A link member pin may be passed through the second aperture of the stationary arm . One end of the link member pin may pass through the second through holes of the link members disposed on the superior side of the first paddle members . Another end of the link member pin may pass through the second through holes of the link members disposed on the inferior side of the first paddle members .

Another link member pin may be received by the pair of slots of the stationary arm . The link member pin may pass through the through hole of the second arm cap . The link member may be engaged with four link members . Two link members may be disposed on the superior side of the second arm and the remaining two link members may be disposed on the inferior side of the second arm . Each of the two link members disposed on the superior side may be disposed on laterally opposing sides of the second arm . Likewise each of the two link members disposed on the inferior side may be disposed on laterally opposing sides of the second arm . One end of the link member pin may pass through the first through holes of the link members disposed on the superior side. Another end of the link member pin may pass through the first through holes of the link members disposed on the inferior side.

Another link member pin may engage with link members and the first paddle member disposed on one of the lateral sides of the stationary arm or the second arm . One end of the link member pin may pass through the second through hole of the link member disposed on the superior side and first through hole provided in link member disposed on the superior side. Another end of the link member pin may pass through the second through hole of the link member disposed on the inferior side and first through hole provided in the link member disposed on the inferior side.

Another link member pin may engage with link members and the first paddle disposed on another lateral side of the stationary arm or the second arm . One end of the link member pin may pass through the second through hole of the link member disposed on the superior side and first through hole provided in link member disposed on the superior side. Another end of the link member pin may pass through the second through hole of the link member disposed on the inferior side and first through hole provided in the link member disposed on the inferior side. Each of the four link member pins may receive retention rings in the annular grooves .

The cover member may receive the first member and the second member . The first member and the second member may pass through the bore of the cover member .

The cover member may be engaged with the tissue stabilizing member . At least a part of the tissue stabilizing member may be received by the cover member near the distal end of the cover member . The pair of pins may be received in the U shaped slot such that the tissue stabilizing member may translate in a portion of the U shaped slot that is closed at the distal end . A spring may be accommodated in the bore of the tissue stabilizing member . The spring may be disposed between the flange of the tissue stabilizing member and an inwards projecting step or bushing provided in the cover member .

The bushing may be received by a stepped inner portion towards the distal end of the cover member . Another bushing may be received by another stepped inner portion towards the proximal end of the cover member .

The first component and the second component of the housing may be engaged such that outlet port and the flush port may translate in the sixth through slot and fifth through slot respectively. The first post of the second arm may translate in the second slot of the housing assembly . A tube engaged with the aperture of the cover member may be retained in the first slot .

The guide plates may be engaged over the outer surface of the housing assembly such that the guide plate may cover a portion of the fourth slot such that the pin received in the through hole of the stop may translate in the first slot of the guide plates .

A nut may be engaged with the externally threaded portion of the housing assembly . The flange of the stationary arm may be pressed against the edge of the threaded portion by the nut and may prevent the stationary arm from disengaging from the housing assembly .

Another nut may be engaged with the externally threaded portion of the housing assembly . The flange of the cover member may be pressed against the edge of the threaded portion by the nut and may prevent the cover member from disengaging from the housing assembly .

A screw or motion limiting means may be received by the protrusion of the housing assembly . The screw may be received in the threaded hole defined in the protrusion .

Referring to the figures and more specifically to and Z in order to extract a hair follicle a portion of the system may be moved underneath the skin . The portion may include the cover member the first member the second member and the tissue stabilizing member . At least a part of the portion may be disposed between an inner surface of the skin and the skull . The tissue stabilizing member may be positioned around the tissue that has the target hair follicle . The tissue stabilizing member may press against the inner surface of the skin around the tissue that has to hair follicle . The counter pressure device may be disposed opposite to the tissue stabilizing member and may interface with the external surface of the skin . A part of the hair may extend out of the external surface . The aperture or opening provided in the counter pressure device may enable a user to see the hair follicle that is being targeted for extraction. The alignment of the hair follicle may be altered for example using piercing members to align the hair follicle with the longitudinal axis of the first member to avoid transection of hair follicle while it is being extracted.

In order to extract the hair follicle from underneath the skin the first member may have to be rotated about its longitudinal axis while it is translated into the skin . The rotation of the first member may be enabled by the power tool . The power tool imparts torque to the power shaft thereby enabling the power shaft to rotate. The power shaft transfers the torque to the adapter thereby enabling the adapter to rotate. The power shaft may transfer the torque to the adapter even if the adapter moves linearly with respect to the power shaft owing to the configuration of the power shaft and the adapter . The adapter transfers the torque to the first member thereby enabling the first member to rotate. Rotation of the first member may result in rotation of the second member owing to engagement between the first member and the second member in which the engagement protrusions of the second member may be received in the slots of the first member .

As recited earlier the first member may have to be translated into the skin from underneath the skin to enable extraction of the hair follicle. In addition to translation of the first member the second member may have to be translated along the axis of the second member or the first member to enabling clipping of tissue that may have been cut by the first member .

An operator may insert a portion of the system underneath the skin . The extent to which the portion may be inserted may be limited by the nut . The rest of the system and the system which include the counter pressure device may be exposed to the external surface of the skin. The tissue stabilizing member may first enter the incision followed by the other parts. The portion is moved underneath the skin such that the tissue stabilizing member presses around the tissue that has the target hair follicle from underneath the skin while the counter pressure device presses the tissue that has the hair follicle from the external surface of the skin such that the target hair follicle may be disposed between the tissue stabilizing member and the counter pressure device . It may be noted that the extent to which the tissue stabilizing member extends out of the cover member owing to the tension applied by the spring over the tissue stabilizing member may depend on the thickness of the skin . The hair follicle that may be disposed between the tissue stabilizing member and the counter pressure device may be aligned with the longitudinal axis of the first member before the operator initiates translatory movement of the first member . Once aligned the operator may initiate the translatory movement of the first member.

The operator may place his thumbs on the concave curvature defined in the pair of second paddles . The remaining four fingers in each of his hands may be pressed against the first surface of the first paddles . The operator may begin to apply pressure over the first surface of the first paddles so as to move the first paddles from its initial position towards the second paddles . Movement of the first paddles may result in movement of the link member pin may be referred to as engaged with the second arm cap towards another link member pin may also be referred to as while the second arm cap compresses the spring . The movement of the link member pin may result in movement or translation of the second arm in the first direction along its longitudinal axis towards the link member pin which may be stationary. The movement of the second arm may result in the movement of the spring . The movement of the spring may be achieved as one end of the spring may be interfacing with the step of the second arm . The other end of the spring may in turn apply force over the first engaging surface of the first arm thereby enabling movement of the first arm in the first direction. The first arm may continue moving in the first direction until the threaded adjustment knob interfaces the surface of the housing assembly at the housing assembly s proximal end refer .

Movement of the first arm may result in movement of the first connecting member in the first direction since it may be connected to the first arm by the pin . Movement of the first connecting member may result in movement of the stop which is received in the first connecting member . The pin received by the stop may translate in the first slot defined in the guide plate .

Movement of the first arm may also result in movement of the carriage and the adapter in the first direction.

The adapter which may be connected to the first member may result in movement of the first member in the first direction.

The second connecting member may move in the first direction as a result of the movement of the second arm in the first direction. The bearing and the second member connected to the second connecting member also moves in the first direction.

As recited earlier the first arm may continue moving in the first direction until the threaded adjustment knob interfaces the surface of the housing assembly at the housing assembly s proximal end . Once the translatory movement of the first arm stops the components such as the first connecting member carriage adapter and the first member which may have translated as a result of translatory movement of the first arm may also stop. The position of the paddles at which the first member stops translating in the first direction may be referred to as intermediate position. At this position the first member may have cut through the tissue that may have the target hair follicle thereby creating a channel or circular circumferential cut or punch in the tissue such that at least a portion of the target hair follicle is within the channel refer . Further at this position pin may have moved towards the third region of the first slot of the guide plate . The second seat of the stop may interface with the cylindrical surface of the adjustment sleeve .

The operator may operate the paddles to move beyond the intermediate position to reach a final position. The operator may continue to pull the first paddles towards second paddles . Movement of the first paddles may result in further movement of the link member pin engaged with the second arm cap towards the other link member pin while the second arm cap further compresses the spring . The movement of the link member pin may result in further movement or translation of the second arm in the first direction along its longitudinal axis towards the other link member pin . The second connecting member may further move in the first direction as a result of the movement of the second arm in the first direction. The bearing and the second member connected to the second connecting member also may also move in the first direction. The spring disposed in the first bore of the second arm may be compressed due to the movement of the second arm while the first arm is restricted from moving further. The movement of the second arm may result in sliding of the adjustment sleeve over the second seat of the stop which is being pushed against the adjustment sleeve by the spring . As the adjustment sleeve slides past the second seat the spring expands such that the first seat align or interfaces with the cylindrical surface of the adjustment sleeve refer . The instant position may be referred to as locking member extended position. The pin may interface with a superior edge of the first slot in the third region of the guide plate . The movement of the second arm and the second member in the first direction may be stopped by a movement restricting feature such as the screw engaged in the protrusion of the housing assembly refer . The positions of the paddles and at which the movement of the second member in the first direction stops may be referred to as final position.

The translatory movement of the second member while the first member is restricted from moving in the first direction may result in the arms moving into the first bore of the first member through the apertures such that the tips of the arms meet inside the first bore thereby clipping the tissue that may be have the target hair follicle which may have been cut by the first member refer .

The operator may stop applying force over the paddles so that the paddles retract from the final position to the initial position.

Upon stopping the application of force over the paddles and the spring may expand and may apply expansion force on the head of the second arm cap . As a result of spring applying expansion force on the second arm cap the second arm cap may move in a second direction opposite to the first direction. The second arm cap may in turn move the second arm in the second direction. The adjustment sleeve may in turn move in the second direction as a result of the second arm movement in the second direction. The proximal end of the adjustment sleeve which may be interfacing the block wall of the stop may move in the second direction such that the stop may cause the pin to slide in the third region . The movement of the stop may cause the first connecting member the first arm and the first member to translate or move in the second direction. Hence the first member and the second member may move simultaneously in the second direction refer .

Subsequent movement of the second arm may cause the pin to slide into the second region which has the curved surface in the guide plate thereby causing the stop to move downwards or move in an inferior direction. Subsequently the pin may slide into the first region thereby releasing the interface between the proximal end of the adjustment sleeve and the block wall of the stop refer . The instant position in which various parts of the system that form the locking assembly are in a position that allows second member to translate in the second direction at least relative to the first member may be referred to as locking member retracted position. The position of the first member at this stage may be referred to as first member intermediate position.

Subsequent movement of the adjustment sleeve may not result in movement of the first connecting member first arm or the first member in the second direction as the adjustment sleeve may not be able to push the first connecting member in the second direction. Hence the first member may not translate in the second direction while the second member translates in the second direction. This may cause the arms to retract out of the first bore and the arms or the protrusions of the arms may rest on the slots of the first member . The second member may translate in the second direction while the first arm is stationary with respect to the translatory movement until the adjustment sleeve interfaces with the pair of arms of the first connecting member . The position of the second member at this stage may be referred to as second member retracted position refer Z . Once the interface is established the first arm and the first member may begins to translate along with the second arm and the second member until the paddles and reaches the initial position.

The components such as guide plate first connecting member stop spring pin and adjustment sleeve which may enable locking so as to enable simultaneous translatory movement of the first member and the second member in the second direction after the movement in the first direction is terminated may be referred to as locking assembly. The position of the locking assembly when the adjustment sleeve interfaces with the block wall may be referred to as locking member or locking assembly extended position. The position of the locking assembly when the adjustment sleeve interfaces with the second seat may be referred to as locking member or locking assembly retracted position.

A depth limiting means or the knob may be adjusted to either be position closer to the proximal end of the housing assembly to control the extent to which the first member translates in the first direction. Controlling the extent to which the first member translates in the first direction may in turn enable controlling the depth of cut made by the first member into the tissue. Hence the distance between the distal end of the channel cut into the tissue and the external surface of the skin may be controlled. The operator may make such adjustment based on the desired depth of cut or thickness of the skin.

A motion limiting means or the screw received by the protrusion of the housing assembly may be adjusted to configure the extent to which the second member or second means may be translated in the first direction.

The rotation of the first member may be terminated operably or automatically after the first member has terminated its movement in the first direction.

Alternatively the rotation of the first member and the second member may be terminated operably or automatically before initiating the translatory movement of the first member and the second member in the second direction.

Alternatively the rotation of the first member may be terminated operably or automatically after the first member has terminated its movement in the first direction. The rotation of the first member and the second member may be initiated after the second member has terminated its movement in the first direction.

Alternatively the first member and the second member may be rotated throughout the process of extracting the tissue from underneath the skin.

Alternatively the first member and the second member may not be rotated and the first member and second member may only be translated to enable cutting and clipping or to enable extracting of the target tissue.

The flush port may be generally closed. The flush port may be opened to receive fluid into the chamber . Generally while extracting the hair follicle fluid may be passed into the inlet port while suction may be applied at the outlet port . The fluid received through the inlet port may pass through the channel provided in the cover member and through the channel provided in the bushing to enter the first bore provided in the first member . The fluid may enter the first bore through one or more openings or opening of the first bore at the distal end . The fluid may enter the first bore due to suction applied at the outlet port . The fluid may carry the hair follicle that may be disposed in the first bore after it has been cored and clipped towards the exit port. The hair follicle along with fluid may travel through the first bore and enter the adapter . The hair follicle along with fluid may exit the adapter and enter the chamber through apertures . Eventually the hair follicle along with fluid may exit the system through the outlet port .

