---

title: System and method of monitoring and controlling motorized passenger carts
abstract: In accordance with one embodiment, a system is provided for safely conveying passengers indoors using a steerable motorized passenger cart, the maximum speed of which is limited based on its location within the interior space. In particular embodiments, the present invention further includes an interchangeable vehicle skin affixed to the motorized passenger cart.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09145067&OS=09145067&RS=09145067
owner: 
number: 09145067
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140605
---
This invention relates in general to the field of electronic transportation systems and more specifically to a system of monitoring and controlling motorized passenger carts.

Large amusement and retail spaces offer a diversity of options to customers but often feature large distances. There is a strong correlation between the amount of retail sales and the level of foot traffic that these spaces can drive. The longer a patron stays and shops the more money a proprietor can make. However patrons with young children are often limited by the amount of time they can spend shopping because their children become bored or get tired of walking around.

Limitations of strollers shopping carts and bikes. Moving sidewalks can help shorten long spans but do enable a patron to move around freely. Segways golf carts and personalized tram services may be too large to operate in multi level environments like a shopping mall. Moreover mixing vehicles with pedestrians can create an unsafe environment that may be disruptive.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a system and method of safely transporting individuals within an enclosed area is provided which substantially eliminates or reduces disadvantages associated with previous systems or methods.

In accordance with one embodiment a system is provided for safely conveying passengers indoors using a steerable motorized passenger cart the maximum speed of which is limited based on its location within the interior space. In particular embodiments the present invention further includes an interchangeable vehicle skin affixed to the motorized passenger cart. In other embodiments the cart s location may be used to deliver targeted advertising or to augment customer experiences by delivering supplemental media to the rider based on his location.

In accordance with another embodiment a method is provided for remotely towing a motorized passenger cart comprising the steps forming a wireless bond between a motorized passenger cart and a tow determining the speed bearing and distance from the tow and automatically adjusting the speed and the heading of the cart so as to keep the distance within a preconfigured range. In particular embodiments the tow may be a guardian or another motorized passenger cart.

One advantage of the features described herein is that a disparate and individualized indoor transportation system is made possible by introducing monitoring and safety mechanisms that protect both passengers and other patrons and bystanders. Another advantage is that patronage at large retail or amusement spaces whether indoors or outdoors can be improved by maximizing the amount of time patrons can spend at shops or attractions by decreasing travel times. Patronage can be further improved by offering location based advertising and by providing business intelligence from collected traffic data.

In the following detailed description various embodiments demonstrate features of a motorized cart system that yield some of the above mentioned advantages.

The electronic display may be located elsewhere on the motorized passenger cart without departing from the essence of the invention. For example in other embodiments the display may be affixed above the frame seat . The electronic display is accessible to a rider via a transparent layer or an opening in the ornamental shell not depicted .

A cart connects to the communication network wirelessly. A guardian is indirectly connected to the system via ad hoc communication with the cart . The ad hoc communication may implemented using Bluetooth WiFi or any other power efficient networking technology. The ad hoc communication network is also used to establish a mobile operating area centered around a supervising guardian . As will be discussed in more detail below some embodiments may feature child safety systems that slow associated carts or sound an alarm if the carts leave the mobile operating area .

Operators monitor the operation of the various connected carts. If the carts are rented on an hourly basis the system might display a list of rented carts and how much rental time is remaining. An operator can also communicate with guardians by relaying a message to a cart or sending the message to a guardian s smart device if connected to the communication network. If a cart goes missing or is stolen a transponder relays the location of the missing cart to an operator via cellular communications with cell network and relayed over a wired or wireless communication backbone to the system s central logic . Once the missing cart is outside the operating area it may determine its location using GPS triangulation with satellites or it may rely on cellphone triangulation by communicating with various towers of a cellular network.

In another embodiment the indoor positioning system can be used to serve fine grained location based advertising to a motorized passenger cart or its associated guardian via her smart device. For example if the motorized passenger cart is within a preconfigured proximity of an ice cream parlor the system s logic can determine whether the proprietor has paid for any advertising and if so the system transmits the advertisement which may be comprised of text images video audio or some combination to the cart or associated guardian. The advertising may be triggered when a cart enters a geofenced area or it may be triggered based on the time of day or some other factor that may drive traffic to the advertiser s store.

In yet another embodiment the logic of the monitoring and control system in communication with the indoor positioning system and various carts can enable location based gaming or location rich services. For example a zoo employing some of the features of the present invention might offer a guided tour of its various exhibits by communicating with the cart s rider via an interactive display in the cart and with the associated guardian s smart device. As the rider approaches a particular exhibit the cart can provide the rider with additional information and interactive content to augment the guest s experience at the zoo. The system might also provide navigation information via the cart s display to assist guests in finding certain exhibits within the zoo. Furthermore a zoo or other retail establishment might encourage traffic throughout the zoo by offering virtual points for visiting a certain number of exhibits. This might be packaged as a collect the animals game. An animal is collected so to speak when the cart s rider penetrates a geofenced exhibit area. The game s points may translate to discounts at the zoo s gift shop or tied to virtual merit badges that promote subsequent return trips to the zoo or other retail establishment.

In still another embodiment the system may store cart positioning and timestamp data in order to enable subsequent analysis of cart traffic patterns and guardian behavior. Such data may be valuable to retail establishments or amusement parks to help optimize traffic flow or to help determine efficacy of advertising and store location. For example the length of time someone spends at an exhibit or within a shop might be determined by identifying when a cart is stationary for several minutes outside of a shop or identifying a cart whose rider and guardian left the cart together determined via relative proximity to smart bands without triggering an alarm condition.

In some embodiments the master unit may be hitched to a trailer or non motorized shopping cart that is used to transport the personal effects or shopping items of the rider or guardian.

The system of the present invention can be implemented on a networked computing device platform that is capable of local or remote access by a user. For example the computing device can be a stored program computer such as a desktop laptop server mainframe or the like including but not limited to a RISC or CISC processor a DSP a programmable logic device or the like capable of executing program instructions. Further it is possible that the system may utilize any one or some combination of the aforementioned devices. Choice of hardware and implementation is considered to be within the skill of one of ordinary skill in the art for which the invention applies.

The process steps of the present invention can be implemented in high or low level programming or scripting languages such as Basic C C C .NET Jscript Java or the like. Further some combination of programming utilities may be utilized to achieve the process steps of the invention. Choice of programming language and implementation is considered to be within the skill of one of ordinary skill in the art for which the invention applies. Further the system may include application programming interface API call capabilities to allow a provider or payer to access the novel functionality through use of API calls made within a web browser instance or may be provided in a proprietary format with a graphical user interface as depicted herein.

If the cart detects that it is located in a low speed zone at event the cart shifts into state . In state the cart s maximum speed is reduced to a preconfigured top speed. A low speed zone may correspond to certain high traffic areas in a retail space or around dangerous areas like an escalator. This could also be used at a zoo or outdoor location where a cart might be allowed higher speeds between exhibits and require lower speeds in a high traffic zone i.e. food court . While the cart remains in the low speed zone the rider can alter the speed of the cart including halting the cart but cannot accelerate above the preconfigured top speed. The cart leaves the low speed zone state when the rider steers the cart out of the zone triggering an event or if the guardian transmits a custom throttle setting in event . A guardian uses a remote control to set a custom throttle setting for an associated motorized passenger cart. The remote control may be a touch screen device such as a smart phone or tablet. Or the guardian s smart band may double as a controller and be configured with a slow speed switch or a variable throttle. Most systems will be configured such that the custom throttle setting cannot exceed the maximum speed limit associated with a low speed zone. The cart returns to a normal operating state when the guardian removes the throttle restrictions in event .

In the event that the cart strays too far from the associated guardian the cart will enter an out of range state where the maximum speed of the cart is reduced proportional to the cart s distance from the guardian. In other words the cart is slowed the farther it travels from the guardian. If the guardian closes the distance the cart s maximum speed is increased until the cart transitions back to its normal operating state . When the cart leaves the operating area in event the cart will enter out of operating area state disable itself and enable GPS tracking if it is not already enabled.

In the event that the cart detects its proximity to a restricted area the cart will enter a near restricted area state where its maximum speed will be limited. In the event that the cart is steered away from the restricted area the cart will return to its normal operating state . On the other hand in the event the cart continues into a restricted area the cart s maximum speed will be reduced to zero in its restricted state . The cart will remain in a restricted state until the cart is removed from the restricted area and transitions to a normal operating state .

The cart will also alert the operator at step that the cart has left the operating area. The notification may be actively relayed using a wireless radio or cellular device when the cart leaves the operating area or the departure may be inferred by the absence of in operating area heartbeat. In other words if the cart does not verify that it is still in the operating area within a designated window a monitoring server will notify the operator that the cart has gone missing. The notification may be any form of electronic message such as an entry in a database an email a text an on screen pop up or any mechanism suitable for alerting a user. A similar notification may be dispatched to a guardian associated with the cart at step . A notification may be displayed on a computing device such as a smart phone smart watch laptop tablet or wearable device. At step an alarm on the cart is activated. The alarm may be any auditory or visual emission that is suitably loud or bright enough to attract the attention of passersby. The alarm and theft deterrent steps through persist until a cart operator resets the device at step . To restore primary cart functionality a method such as a software unlock key must be provided by an authorized cart operator or manufacturer to restore the cart to normal operation. The battery may be encased in a tamper proof enclosure that is designed to trigger the lockdown of the cart before power can be cut. Once the cart operator completes the necessary unlocking protocol the cart resumes its normal operating mode at step .

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly the scope of the invention is established by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein. Further the recitation of method steps does not denote a particular sequence for execution of the steps. Such method steps may therefore be performed in a sequence other than that recited unless the particular claim expressly states otherwise.

