---

title: Method for reducing power consumption and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method in an electronic device, includes receiving an instruction to enter a power saving mode, switching a first sensing area of the electronic device into an idle mode and a second sensing area of the electronic into a lock mode, detecting an input on the first sensing area in the idle mode, and unlocking the second sensing area. An electronic device includes a processor configured to determine whether to receive an instruction to enter a power saving mode, switch a first sensing area of the electronic device into an idle mode and a second sensing area of the electronic device into a lock mode, detect an input on the first sensing area in the idle mode, and unlock the second sensing area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09625979&OS=09625979&RS=09625979
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09625979
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141118
---
The present application is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to an application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Nov. 18 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0139951 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a method for reducing power consumption and an electronic device thereof.

Due to the development of information communication technology and semiconductor technology various electronic devices are developing into multimedia devices providing various multimedia services. For example the electronic devices provide various multimedia services such as voice call services video call services messenger services broadcasting services wireless internet services camera services and music playback services.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a device and method for improving user s convenience as a set memo is inputted after the insertion of a set input tool by using another input tool.

A method in an electronic device includes receiving an instruction to enter a power saving mode in response to receiving the instruction switching a first sensing area of the electronic device into an idle mode and a second sensing area of the electronic device into a lock mode detecting an input on the first sensing area in the idle mode and in response to detecting the input on the first sensing area unlocking the second sensing area.

In some embodiments the instruction to enter the power saving mode comprises that a first input tool is inserted into a tool holder in the electronic device.

In some embodiments the first sensing area is located on a part of a bezel of a touch screen disposed on the electronic device.

In some embodiments the first sensing area comprises a pair of a left bezel portion and a right bezel portion.

In some embodiments the first sensing area comprises a pair of a north bezel portion and a south bezel portion.

In some embodiments the second sensing area in the lock mode does not detect any input on the second sensing area.

In some embodiments the method further includes if the input on the first sensing area in the idle mode has not been detected for a certain time switching the electronic device into a sleep mode.

An electronic device includes a processor configured to determine whether to receive an instruction to enter a power saving mode in response to receiving the instruction switch a first sensing area of the electronic device into an idle mode and a second sensing area of the electronic device into a lock mode detect an input on the first sensing area in the idle mode and in response to detecting the input on the first sensing area unlock the second area.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a processor switching only a first area among a set first area and a second area into an idle mode and when an input is detected from the first area switching the second area set to a lock mode into the idle mode and a memory storing data controlled by the processor.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can be a device having a communication function. For example the electronic device can be at least one or a combination of a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch smart white appliance for example a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an artificial intelligence robot a TV a digital video disk DVD player an audio system an oven a microwave a washing machine an air purifier and a digital photo frame various medical devices for example magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT tomography and ultrasonograph a navigation device a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or a Google TV an electronic dictionary a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for ship for example a navigation device for ship and a gyro compass avionics a security device an electronic garment an electronic key a camcorder a game console head mounted display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic album part of a furniture or building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device and a projector. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device is not limited to the above mentioned devices.

The bus can be a circuit connecting the above mentioned components to each other and delivering a communication for example a control message therebetween.

The processor receives an instruction from the above other components for example the memory the user input module the display module and the communication module through the bus interprets the received instruction and performs operations and data processing in response to the interpreted instruction.

The memory can store an instruction or data received from the processor or other components for example the user input module the display module and the communication module or an instruction or data generated from the processor or other components. The memory can include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and an application . Each of the above mentioned programming modules can be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel can control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used for performing operation or functions implemented by the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Additionally the kernel can provide an interface for accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the application and controlling or managing it.

The middleware can serve as an intermediary role for exchanging data between the API or the application and the kernel through communication. Additionally in relation to job requests received from a plurality of applications the middleware can perform a load balancing on the job requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource for example the bus the processor or the memory to at least one application among the plurality of applications .

The API as an interface through which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware can include at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing or character control.

The user input module can receive an instruction or data from a user and deliver it to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display module can display an image video or data to a user.

The communication module can connect a communication between another electronic device and the electronic device . The communication module can support a predetermined short range communication protocol for example wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC or a predetermined network communication for example Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or plain old telephone service POTS . Each of the electronic devices and can be identical to for example the same type or different from for example a different type the electronic device .

The processor for example the processor can include at least one application processor AP or at least one communication processor CP . The processor can be the processor shown in for example. Although the AP and the CP included in the processor are shown in they can be included in different IC packages. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP and the CP can be included in one IC package. The processor can switch only a first area among predetermined first and second areas into an idle mode and when an input is detected from the first area can switch the second area set to a lock mode switches into the idle mode. Additionally the processor detects that a first input tool is inserted into a body of the device. Additionally the processor can determine whether a battery saving mode is set to operate and can then confirm that the battery saving mode is set to operate. Additionally when the processor does not receive a command for receiving an input from a second input tool it can switch an operating mode into a sleep mode.

The AP cancontrols a plurality of hardware or software components by executing an operating system or an application program. The AP can perform various data processes and operations on multimedia data. The AP can be implemented with a system on chip SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor can further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown . The CP can manage a data link in a communication between an electronic device for example the electronic device including the hardware and other electronic devices connected via a network and can convert a communication protocol. The CP can be implemented with a SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the CP can perform at least part of a multimedia control function. The CP can perform a distinction and authentication of a terminal in a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card for example. Additionally the CP can provide services for example a voice call a video call a text message or packet data to a user.

Additionally the CP can control the data transmission of the communication module . As shown in components such as the CP the power management module or the memory are separated from the AP but according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP can be implemented including some of the above mentioned components for example the CP .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the CP can load commands or data which are received from a nonvolatile memory or at least one of other components connected thereto into a volatile memory and can process them. Furthermore the AP or the CP can store data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a nonvolatile memory.

The SIM card can be a card implementing a subscriber identification module and can be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of an electronic device. The SIM card can include unique identification information for example an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory can include an internal memory or an external memory . The memory can be the memory shown in for example. The internal memory can include at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory can have a form of Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory can further include compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD or memorystick.

The communication module can include a wireless communication module or an RF module . The communication module can be the communication unit shown in for example. The wireless communication module can include a Wi Fi Bluetooth BT a GPS or a near field communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module can provide a wireless communication function by using a wireless frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module can include a network interface for example a LAN card or a modem for connecting the hardware to a network for example Internet local area network LAN wire area network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or plain old telephone service POTS .

The RF module can be responsible for data transmission for example the transmission of an RF signal or a called electrical signal. Although not shown in the drawings the RF module can include a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA . The RF module can further include components for transmitting receiving electromagnetic waves on free space in a wireless communication for example conductors or conducting wires.

The sensor module can include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a red green blue RGB sensor H a bio sensor a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a ultra violet UV sensor M. The sensor module measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of an electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. Additionally alternately the sensor module can include an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown or an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown . The sensor module can further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein.

The user input unit can include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The user input unit can be the user input unit shown in for example. The touch panel can recognize a touch input through at least one of a capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic method for example. Additionally the touch panel can further include a controller not shown . In the case of the capacitive method both direct touch and proximity recognition are possible. The touch panel can further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel can provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor can be implemented through a method similar or identical to that of receiving a user s touch input or an additional sheet for recognition. As the key a keypad or a touch key can be used for example. The ultrasonic input device as a device confirming data by detecting sound waves through a mike for example the mike in a terminal can provide wireless recognition through a pen generating ultrasonic signals. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the hardware can receive a user input from an external device for example a network a computer or a server connected to the hardware through the communication module .

The display module can include a panel or a hologram . The display module can be the display module shown in for example. The panel can include a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED . The panel can be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel and the touch panel can be configured with one module. The hologram can show three dimensional images in the air by using the interference of light. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module can further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram . The display module can provide a message on whether to receive an input from a second input tool receive a command for receiving an input from the second input tool and display the message.

The interface can include a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB a projector or a D subminiature sub . Additionally or alternately the interface can include a secure Digital SD multi media card MMC not shown or an infrared data association IrDA not shown .

The audio codec can convert voice and electrical signals in both directions. The audio codec can convert voice information inputted or outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone or a mike .

The camera unit as a device for capturing an image and video can include at least one image sensor for example a front lens or a rear lens an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash LED not shown .

The power management module can manage the power of the hardware . Although not shown in the drawings the power management module can include a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC can be built in an IC or SoC semiconductor for example. A charging method can be classified as a wired method and a wireless method. The charger IC can charge a battery and can prevent overvoltage or overcurrent flow from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC can include a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. As the wireless charging method for example there is a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier circuit can be added.

A battery gauge can measure the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature thereof during charging. The battery can generate electricity and supplies power. For example the battery can be a rechargeable battery.

The indicator can display a specific state of the hardware or part thereof for example the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor can convert electrical signals into mechanical vibration. The A Main Control Unit MCU not shown can control the sensor module .

Although not shown in the drawings the hardware can include a processing device for example a GPU for mobile TV support. A processing device for mobile TV support can process media data according to the standards such as digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow.

The names of the above mentioned components in hardware according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can vary according to types of an electronic device. Hardware according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can be configured including at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components. Additionally some of components in hardware according to an embodiment of the present disclosure are configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

The kernel for example the kernel can include a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager can include a process management unit not shown a memory management unit not shown or a file system management unit not shown for example. The system resource manager can perform control allocation or recovery of a system resource. The device driver can include a display driver not shown a camera driver not shown a Bluetooth driver not shown a sharing memory driver not shown a USB driver not shown a keypad driver not shown a keypad driver not shown a Wi Fi driver not shown or an audio driver not shown . Additionally according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the device driver can include an inter processing communication IPC driver not shown .

The middleware can include a plurality of pre implemented modules for providing functions that the application commonly requires. Additionally the middleware can provide functions through the API to allow the application to efficiently use a limited system resource in an electronic device. For example as shown in the middleware for example the middleware can include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

The runtime library can include a library module in which a compiler is used to add a new function through programming language while the application is executed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the runtime library can perform functions relating to an input output memory management or calculation operation.

The application manager can manage a life cycle of at least one application among the applications . The window manager can manage a GUI resource using a screen. The multimedia manager can recognize a format necessary for playing various media files and can perform encoding or decoding on a media file by using codec appropriate for a corresponding format. The resource manager can manage a resource such as source code memory or storage space of at least one application among the applications .

The power manager manages a battery or power in operation with basic input output system BIOS and provides power information necessary for an operation. The database manager can perform a management operation to generate search or change a database used for at least one application among the applications . The package manager can manage the installation or update of an application distributed in a package file format.

The connectivity manager can manage a wireless connection such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth. The notification manager can display or notify events such as arrival messages appointments and proximity alerts in a manner that is not disruptive to a user. The location manager can manage location information of an electronic device. The graphic manager can manage an effect to be provided to a user or a user interface relating thereto. The security manager can provide a general security function necessary for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when an electronic device for example the electronic device has a call function the middleware can further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware can generate and use a new middleware module through various function combinations of the above mentioned internal component modules. The middleware can provide modules specified according to types of an OS so as to provide distinctive functions. Additionally the middleware can delete some existing components or add new components dynamically. Accordingly some components listed in an embodiment of the present disclosure can be omitted other components are added or components having different names but performing similar functions can be substituted.

The API for example the API can be provided as a set of API programming functions with a different configuration according OS. For example in the case of Android or iOS for example one API set can be provided by each platform and in the case of Tizen for example more than two API sets can be provided.

The application for example the application for example can include a preloaded application or a third part application.

At least part of the programming module can be implemented using a command stored in computer readable storage media. When an instruction is executed by at least one processor for example the processor the at least one processor can perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media can include the memory for example. At least part of the programming module can be implemented for example executed by the processor for example. At least part of the programming module can include a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process to perform at least one function for example.

The names of components of a programming module for example the programming unit according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can vary according to types of OS. Additionally a programming module can include at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components. Or part of the programming module can be omitted.

That is when the input tool is inserted into a body of the electronic device the electronic device can determine whether to detect predetermined information from another input tool according to whether the battery saving mode is turn on or off. Hereinafter an embodiment for setting a battery saving mode in an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is described in more detail.

First the electronic device can select one icon from a plurality of icons displayed on a display module of the electronic device in order to execute the battery saving mode. For example as shown in the user can select an application icon to display a stored application from the plurality of icons displayed on the display module of the electronic device.

Then the user can select an application for setting preferences among the plurality of applications displayed on the display module. For example as shown in the user can select an icon for setting preferences among icons displayed on the display module.

Then after checking a battery saving mode the electronic device can enter the battery saving mode as shown in .

In some embodiments as shown in the electronic device can display an inquiry such as do you want to use the second input tool on the display module and also provides same message as voice through a speaker of the electronic device.

Then when receiving a command for using the second input tool the electronic device displays a guide message indicating that second input tool can be used to enter an input from then on.

In some embodiments as shown in the electronic device can display a guide message such as in order for normal operation slightly tap the lower bottom part with a pen to perform normal operation on the display module of the electronic device.

For example the first set of areas can include areas and other than the display area of the electronic device. In more detail the first set of areas can include an upper area a left area a right area and a lower area .

That is in a battery saving mode the electronic device can switch the first set of areas into an idle mode and the second area e.g. the display area into a lock mode. Thus the electronic device can detect an input on the first area while the device does not detect any input on the display area from an input tool. Also since the electronic device switches only the first area into the idle mode battery consumption is reduced. Then when an input is detected from the first area the electronic device can switch second group areas to a lock mode into an idle mode.

Herein the second area can be an area for receiving an input from the second input tool. For example as shown in while the first group areas and switch into an idle mode if it is detected that an arbitrary area among the first areas and is selected from the second input tool the electronic device can switch the second area set to a lock mode into an idle mode. That is when it is detected that an arbitrary area is selected from the first areas and the electronic device can switch the display module into an idle mode in order to receive predetermined information from the second input tool.

In the beginning a first input tool touches a first set of areas of an electronic device and the electronic device enters a battery saving mode. In the battery saving mode only a first area is switched into an idle mode and the second area turns to a lock mode. In the embodiment the first area locates at a lower part of the electronic device and a second area is a main touch display area.

After switching only the first area into an idle mode the electronic device can set the second area to a lock mode in order to reduce battery consumption. That is a touch input can be detected from the second input tool on the first area and a touch input will not be detected from the second input tool in the second area .

As long as the first area is not touched by the second input tool during an idle mode the electronic device will not detect an input of the second input tool . Since only the first area switches into an idle mode the second area in a lock mode cannot receive predetermined information from the second input tool .

For example as shown in since the second area of the display module of the electronic device is in a lock mode the electronic device does not detect predetermined information inputted from the second input tool .

If the first area is selected during an idle mode the second area touch screen area is activated and detects a touch input inputted from for example the second input tool through the second area . The first area can locate at other positions such as a top a left side or a right side in a bezel.

Once the first area is switched to an idle mode the second area is turned to a lock mode in order to reduce battery consumption. That is a touch input can be detected from the second input tool in the first area and a touch input may not be detected from the second input tool in the second area.

Then when the second area is selected while the first area is not selected first from the second input tool the electronic device may not detect an input of the second input tool .

However if the first area in an idle mode is selected first the electronic device can detect predetermined information inputted from the second input tool through the second area.

For example as shown in if the first area in an idle mode is selected from the second input tool the electronic device can detect predetermined information inputted from the second input tool through the second area.

Then the electronic device determines whether a battery saving mode is set to operate in operation . Here the battery saving mode can be a mode setting whether to receive predetermined information from another input tool in addition to a set input tool. In more detail while the battery saving mode is set to on in the electronic device if a set input tool is inserted into the electronic device the electronic device may not receive predetermined information from another input tool. However while the battery saving mode is set to off in the electronic device even if a set input tool is inserted into the electronic device the electronic device can receive predetermined information from another input tool. That is when a set input tool is inserted into a predetermined area of the electronic device according to whether the battery saving mode is set to on or off the electronic device can determine whether it is possible to receive predetermined information from another input tool.

If it is determined that the electronic device is set to operate in the battery saving mode in operation the electronic device can determine whether a command for receiving an input from the second input tool is received in operation . That is the electronic device can determine whether a command for receiving predetermined information from another input tool other than the set first input tool is received.

If it is determined that a command for receiving an input from the second input tool is received in operation the electronic device can switch only the first area among the first and second areas into an idle mode in operation . Herein the first area can be an area other than an area for receiving an input from the second input tool. In more detail the first area can be an area other than a display module area for receiving an input from the second input tool. For example the first area can be an upper area a left area a right area and a lower area of the electronic device other than the display module of the electronic device. Additionally the second area can be a display module area for receiving an input from the second input tool.

Then the electronic device determines whether an input is detected from the first area in operation . In more detail the electronic device can determine whether the set first area is selected from the second input tool. For example the electronic device can determine whether the first area receives a touch input from the second input tool.

If an input is detected from the first area in operation the electronic device can switch the second area set to a lock mode into an idle mode in operation . For example while only the first area switches into an idle mode if it is detected that an arbitrary area among the first area is selected from the second input tool the electronic device can switch the second area set to a lock mode into an idle mode. That is when it is detected that an arbitrary area is selected from the first area the electronic device can switch the display module into an idle mode in order to receive predetermined information from the second input tool.

Then the electronic device confirms that the first area and the second area operate in an idle mode in operation . That is when the set first area is not selected from the second input tool in order to reduce battery consumption the electronic device can set the second area to a lock mode and after the first area is selected the electronic device can switch the second area into an idle mode in order to receive predetermined information from the second input tool.

If it is determined that the electronic device is not set to operate in the battery saving mode in operation the electronic device can confirm that the first area and the second area operate in an idle mode in operation .

If it is determined that a command for receiving an input from the second input tool is not received in operation the electronic device can switch an operation mode into a sleep mode and can then terminate an operation in operation .

Then when an input is detected from the first area the electronic device can switch the second area set to a lock mode into an idle mode in operation . For example while only the first area switches into an idle mode if it is detected that an arbitrary area among the first area is selected from the second input tool the electronic device can switch the second area set to a lock mode into an idle mode. That is when it is detected that an arbitrary area is selected from the first area the electronic device can switch the display module into an idle mode in order to receive predetermined information from the second input tool.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an operating method of an electronic device the method comprising switching only a first area among a set first area and a set second area into an idle mode and switching the second area set to a lock mode into the idle mode when an input is detected from the first area.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention according to the claims and description in the specification can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

Any such software can be stored in a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform a method of the present invention.

Any such software can be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a CD DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are embodiments of machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement embodiments of the present invention.

Accordingly embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a machine readable storage storing such a program. Still further such programs can be conveyed electronically via any medium such as a communication signal carried over a wired or wireless connection and embodiments suitably encompass the same.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. Therefore the scope of the disclosure is defined not by the detailed description of the disclosure but by the appended claims and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the present disclosure.

