---

title: Configurable colored indicator on computing device
abstract: A computing device includes a memory storing executable instructions, a processor configured to execute the instructions, a programmable display screen configured to display text-based information, and a multi-color indicator. The multi-color indicator is located on a surface of the computing device and includes a plurality of segments, each segment configured to display at least four different colors, where colors displayed by segments of the multi-color indicator are programmable, through execution of the instructions by the processor, to display non-text-based information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330542&OS=09330542&RS=09330542
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09330542
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140221
---
Computing devices such as laptops may have a light emitting diode LED indicator on the front or back of the device which may indicate an operating status of the device such as the device being on being in sleep mode or charging. This LED indicator has a single color LED and is driven by internal CPU controllers. However the internal CPU controllers do not have the capabilities of controlling the LED indicator in a configurable manner to indicate many types of information besides the operating status of a computer.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In a first aspect a computing device includes a memory storing executable instructions a processor configured to execute the instructions a programmable display screen configured to display text based information and a multi color indicator. The multi color indicator is located on a surface of the computing device and includes a plurality of segments each segment configured to display at least four different colors where colors displayed by segments of the multi color indicator are programmable through execution of the instructions by the processor to display non text based information.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. For example surface may not include the programmable display screen. The computing device can be a laptop computer that includes a base portion and a display portion the display portion having a first surface that includes the programmable display screen and having a second surface opposite to the first surface that includes the multi color indicator. The computing device can include a display screen apparatus having a first surface that includes the programmable display screen and having a second surface opposite to the first surface that includes the multi color indicator. The plurality of segments each can be generally rectangular and the plurality of segments can be arranged in a line. The plurality of segments can be generally rectangular and the plurality of segments can be arranged in a line where the line can be contiguous.

The computing device can be a laptop computer that includes a base portion and a display portion the display portion having a first surface that includes the programmable display screen and having a second surface opposite to the first surface that includes the multi color indicator and wherein the line of segments spans has a length that is greater than 50 of a width of the display portion. The line of segments can have a height that is less than 10 of height of the display portion.

The instructions can include an Application Programming Interface to allow a user of the computing device to program the display of the multi color indicator. The instructions can include a scripting language code which when executed by the processor program the display of the multi color indicator. Execution of the instructions by the processor can provide different levels of control of the display of the multi color indicator to different types of users of the computing device. A timing of the colors displayed by the segments of the multi color indicator can be programmable through execution of the instructions by the processor to display non text based information. Each segment can be configured to display at least eight different colors. Each segment can be configured to display at least 256 different colors.

In another general aspect a method of displaying non text based information via a multi segment multi color indicator of a computing device located on a surface of the computing device that does not include a programmable display screen configured to display text based information includes receiving instructions from an application executing on the computing device applying the instructions to the indicator via an API and in response to the application of the instruction displaying by the multi segment multi color indicator non text based information.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. For example the received instructions can include instructions to display information representing a brand associated with the computing device. The received instructions can include instructions to display information relevant to a gaming application executed by the computing device. The received instructions can include instructions to display information relevant to an operating status of the computing device. The received instructions can include instructions to display information relevant to an availability status of a user of the computing device. The received instructions can include instructions to display information relevant to a power status of the computing device.

As described herein a computing device such as a laptop or desktop computer can include a dynamic programmable multi color light emitting diode LED . In one implementation the multi color LED indicator may be located on a non display screen area of the computing device. For example the multi color LED indicator may be located on the backside of the display portion of the laptop computer e.g. opposite to the display portion of the laptop computer or on the backside of a display apparatus of the personal computer e.g. opposite to the display portion of the display apparatus . Regardless of the location the multi color LED indicator may include a plurality of segments with each segment being capable of displaying a plurality of colors such as green yellow and red among others. As such the multi color LED indicator may simultaneously display multiple colors.

Also according to the implementations the dynamic programmable multi color LED indicator may be configured to display multiple colors to convey particular information to an observer of the computing device. For example the multi color LED indicator can be programmed to display a particular color scheme or sequence of colors that is consistent with a brand associated with the computing device. In another example the multi color LED indicator can be programmed by a user or an administrator of the computing device to convey particular information to people in visual contact with the computing device.

The computing device may include an operating system at least one processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium . The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include executable instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to implement functionalities of the operating system applications and the multi color LED indicator .

The operating system may include an operating system such as the Windows operating system Mac OS Linux Chrome OS Android Symbian or iPhone OS to name a few examples. Consequently the applications may include virtually any application that may run on the underlying operating system or platform. Examples of such applications are well known and too numerous to mention in any detail but generally include web browsers document processing applications gaming applications email applications image editing or presentation software a web browser and or virtually any type of application capable of operating on an operating system.

The applications may include or use or be associated with one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs to communicate with the LED indicator where such APIs may be light weight consistent customizable and easy to implement within or among various applications . Moreover such APIs may rarely if ever need to be updated or maintained by the user in order for the user to programmably control the operation and display of the LED indicator . Instead such updates may be managed by an administrator or other provider of the LED indicator or the computing device so that the user of the device is unburdened of associated efforts and responsibilities. The operating system the applications and the APIs may issue commands to control the operation of the LED indicator and the commands are provided to the multi color LED indictor for displaying the color scheme.

As shown in the computing device may be capable of being connected to the Internet or a private network that itself is connected to the Internet . The private network may represent a corporate or other intranet and or a smaller scale local or personal network any of which may be implemented using standard network technology.

Each segment may include different color LEDs. For example each segment can include a red LED a green LED and a blue LED. In some implementations the colors can be provided separately such that each segment can display four different colors e.g. red green blue or black . In other implementations single level outputs of the different LEDs in a segment can be mixed to produce eight different colors in a segment. In other implementations the output of the different LEDs can be mixed and different output levels from the different LEDs can be used to produce many different colors in a segment. In some implementations the colors from the LEDs can be mixed to produce at least 64 different colors. In some implementations the colors from the LEDs can be mixed to produce at least 256 different colors a.k.a. 8 bit color . In other implementations the colors from the LEDs can be mixed to produce at least 4096 different colors at least 32 768 different colors at least 65 536 different colors or at least 16 million different colors. As such the plurality of segments may provide the capability of displaying multiple colors at the same time. The optical diffusion and mounting assembly may include components related to each segment such as mounting hardware for the red green and blue LEDs electrical and heat management components and optical components for diffusing light emitted from the LEDs in the segments .

The controller may be an independently provided controller that is different from the internal controllers associated with controlling single color LEDs on conventional computing devices. The controller may receive commands from operating system the applications and the APIs and provide the LED level instructions to the optical diffusion and mounting assembly for displaying the appropriate colors. The LED level instructions may provide information indicating the appropriate emission pattern s for the desired color brightness and timing of the individual segments of the LED indicator . The LED controller functionality also may also be implemented by the processor executing stored instructions.

As shown in the multi color LED indicator may receive commands related to the display of one or more colors of the multi color indicator to control the illumination of colors. The commands may be in a format or syntax that is recognizable by the controller that controls a light emitting diode for displaying the appropriate color indicated by the LED display policy. To create a dynamic display using the indicator the color brightness and timing of the light emitted from the segments of the indicator can be controlled with commands issued to the indicator. For example to create a dynamic pulsing pattern commands may be issued to the indicator to initially display a first color and then over a first time period to gradually and continuously change the color to a second color while also increasing the brightness of the emitted light and then over a second time period to gradually and continuously change the color back to the first color while also decreasing the brightness of the emitted light and then to repeat the process. The color brightness and timing of light emitted from different segments can be coordinated to display information to the user.

As shown in the display portion can have a generally thin rectangular shape such that it has two primary opposed surfaces. A first surface not shown that faces the base portion when the display portion is in the closed position can include the high resolution programmable display screen that is configured to display text based information to a user. In some implementations a second surface that is opposite to the first surface e.g. a backside of the laptop computer can include the multi color LED indicator . In other implementations the multi color LED indicator can be located elsewhere on the laptop computer. For example the indicator can be located on a surface of the base portion on the first surface of the display portion or on an edge of the base portion or the display portion.

As shown in the multi color indicator can have a generally rectangular shape with different segments of the indicator arranged in a line. Individual segments of the indicator also can have generally rectangular shapes and can be arranged contiguously in a line. In some implementations the segments of the indicator can be arranged in a single line of segments. In other implementations the segments of the indicator can be arranged in two or more parallel lines of segments. In some implementations the length of the generally rectangular indicator can be at least 50 of the width w of the display portion . In some implementations the height of the generally rectangular indicator can be less than 10 of the height h of the display portion . In some implementations the multi color indicator can have a generally circular shape with different segments of the indicator having pie wedge shapes that together form the generally circular shape of the indicator . In some implementations the multi color indicator can have be generally ring shaped with different segments of the indicator having arc shapes that together form the ring shape of the indicator .

The computing device can be configured as a tablet computing device having a display processing circuitry a memory device and a battery integrated in a single unit. The tablet can include a high resolution programmable display screen that is configured to display text based information to a user on one side of the tablet. The multi color indicator can be provided on an opposite side of the tablet from the high resolution programmable display screen.

Referring again to the multi color LED indicator is programmable to display non text based information in response to instructions received from the operating system applications and the APIs . The indicator can be programmable directly by a user of the computing device . In some implementations certain programmability of the indicator can be inaccessible to a general user of the computing device while the certain programmability can be available to a user with special credentials. For example certain displays of the indicator can be programmed when the device is configured by a manufacturer of the device and it may not be possible to unprogram these displays after the device has been delivered to an end user. In another example certain displays of the indicator can be programmed only by a user having system administrator credentials within an organization that owns the computing device and the certain displays cannot be unprogrammed by a general user of the device.

In some examples the multi color LED indicator can be programmed to display a pattern of light that corresponds to a brand associated with the computing device. For example if the computing device belongs to an educational institution the indicator can be programmed to display an illumination pattern that corresponds to colors associated with the educational institution. For example a computing device that belongs to the University of North Carolina can have its indicator be programmed to display a Carolina blue pattern a computing device that belongs to the University of California Los Angeles can have its indicator be programmed to display a True Blue and gold pattern and a computing device that belongs to Harvard University can have its indicator be programmed to display a crimson pattern etc.

The indicator can be programmed to display the colors associated with the educational institution at particular times but can be programmed to display other colors and displays at other times. For example the indicator can be programmed by a manufacturer of the device or by a system administrator of the device to display the colors associated with the educational institution for a period of time e.g. 1 minute when the device is turned on or returned to a full power state from a sleep state but at other times the information displayed by the indicator can be programmed by an end user of the device . In another implementation the indicator can be programmed by a system administrator of the device to display the colors associated with the educational institution for a period of time on significant days for the educational institution such as for example a graduation day or on days on which the institution s significant athletic teams compete in significant athletic contests. At other times the information displayed by the indicator can be programmed by an end user of the device .

In another example the indicator can be programmed to display a color pattern representing a company associated with the computing device . For example if the computing device is owned by IBM the indicator can be programmed to display a blue and or a blue and white color scheme associated with the IBM brand if the device is owned by Coca Cola the indicator can be programmed to display a red and or a red and white color scheme associated with the Coca Cola brand and if the device is owned by Google the indicator can be programmed to display the primary colors associated with the Google brand.

The color schemes associated with an organization that owns or is associated with the computing device can be displayed in a dynamic manner. For example the color scheme associated with the organization can be displayed for a short period of time e.g. 30 seconds when the device is turned on or turned off or when the device is placed into a sleep mode or is taken out of a sleep mode. In addition the color schemes associated with the organization can be dynamic in that they can blink on and off can repeatedly pulse from a relatively low brightness gradually to a relatively high brightness and then back to the relatively low brightness etc. After the display of the colors associated with the organization is completed the indicator can then be used to display other non text based information to a user.

Programming of the indicator is facilitated by the API that translates executable instructions into commands that directly control the color brightness timing etc. of the segments of the indicator . In some implementations the executable instructions can be a snippet of scripting language code e.g. JavaScript . The scripting language code can be downloaded to the computing device from the Internet or from the private network and then the instructions that the code can be applied to the indicator via the API . In response to application of the instructions non text based information can be displayed by the multi segment multi color indicator . For example when the user executes a browser application and navigates to a webpage scripting language code for programming the display of the indicator may be downloaded from the webpage. In particular examples when the user navigates to a Coca Cola.com top level domain webpage code could be downloaded from the webpage to cause the indicator to display a color scheme e.g. a red and white color scheme associated with the Coca Cola Company or when a user navigates to a webpage associated with the San Francisco 49ers football team e.g. a webpage having a 49ers.com top level domain code can be downloaded from the webpage to program the indicator to display the scarlet and gold color scheme associated with the 49ers football team. Policies may be defined and implemented on the computing device to allow code only from certain predefined locations to the downloaded and executed to program the indicator . For example on a computing device owned by an organization a policy may be defined and implemented to allow code only from locations associated with the organization e.g. the organization s intranet to be downloaded and executed to program the indicator . In another example a computing device owned by an individual the individual may define particular sites or domains that are allowed to download or that are prohibited from downloading code that may be executed to program the indicator .

In another implementation executable code can be used to program the indicator to display non text based information in order to convey a novel whimsical or interesting impression on a user of the computing device. In some cases the impression can be associated with the device or with a website or organization from which the code is downloaded. For example code can be downloaded to program the indicator to display themes appropriate for a particular day such as for example green on St. Patrick s Day orange and black on Halloween and red white and blue on Independence Day July 4 when the device is in the United States or used by an American user or on Bastille Day July 14 when the device is in France is used by a French user. The user may find such color themes to be compelling or interesting which may engender a favorable association with the device or with a website or organization from which code for displaying such themes is downloaded.

The indicator can be used to display a variety of non text based information. For example the indicator may be programmed to indicate a power status of the computing device . In one example when the indicator has a generally rectangular shape and when the device is connected to a power source to charge a battery of the device different segments of the rectangular indicator can be repeatedly illuminated sequentially in a blue color from a first end of the indicator to a second end of the indicator to create a sweeping pulse of color to indicate that the device is being charged. The distance over which the rectangular indicator is repeatedly illuminated can indicate the charge status of the device. For example repeated sequential elimination of the rectangle extending 50 across the entire rectangle from the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 50 of its capacity and repeated sequential illumination of the rectangle extending 75 across the entire rectangle from the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 75 of its capacity.

When the device is not connected to a power source and is being used different segments of the indicator can be repeatedly illuminated sequentially in a red color toward the first end of the rectangular indicator to create a sweeping pulse of color to indicate that the device is consuming energy from its battery and that the battery is discharging. The distance over which the rectangular indicator is repeatedly illuminated can indicate the charge status of the device. For example repeated sequential elimination of the rectangle extending 50 across the entire rectangle toward the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 50 of its capacity and repeated sequential elimination of the rectangle extending 25 across the entire rectangle toward the first end can indicate that the device is charged to 25 of its capacity.

In some implementations the rectangular indicator can be oriented toward an AC adapter connection on the computing device and a blue sweeping pulse of color on the indicator away from the AC adapter connection can indicate that the battery of the device is discharging while a red sweeping pulse of color on the indicator toward the AC adapter connection can indicate the battery of the device is discharging.

In some implementations the indicator can be programmed to display information about network data usage of the computing device . For example if the user has a data plan that is limited to a maximum number of bytes per month and the user is getting close to the maximum number the indicator can be programmed to display a color pattern indicating a warning regarding the network data usage by the user. Such a warning may be displayed by the indicator only when the device is utilizing network bandwidth at a rate that exceeds a threshold rate. In this manner a user of the device can be alerted when the device is experiencing relatively high network data usage which may result in the user exceeding the threshold number of bytes per month so that the user may investigate which applications or services on the device of which the user may be unaware are consuming network bandwidth.

In some implementations the indicator can be programmed to display an availability status of a user of the computing device . For example a green indicator can indicate that the user is available to participate in oral phone Chat Instant Messaging etc. communications a yellow indicator can indicate that the user is busy and does not want to be interrupted and a red indicator can indicate that the user is not available. Such an indicator can be helpful in an open office environment in which employees work from wall less cubicles.

In another implementation the indicator can be programmed to display an indication that the computing device has a live microphone that is currently detecting and transmitting sounds from the immediate environment of the device. For example the indicator may be programmed to blink orange when the microphone of the device is live. Such an indication may be helpful to alert passersby of the device when a user of the device is using the device to communicate with a remote person so that the passersby do not accidentally contribute embarrassing annoying or confidential information over the live microphone.

In some implementations the indicator can be used to indicate the presence of email chat phone etc. communications that the user has received. For example a first color may indicate the presence of a first type of communication e.g. an email a second color may indicate the presence of a second type of communication e.g. a voicemail etc. On a rectangular shaped indicator a length of a colored bar indicating the presence of a communication of a particular type can indicate a volume of communications of the particular type e.g. a number of new emails in the user s inbox . A blinking color may indicate the presence of an urgent communication where the color indicates a particular type of communication.

A user may program the indicator to display information about particular messages that are of particular importance to the user. For example the user can program the indicator to display a notification indicating the presence of a communication from a particular person e.g. a boss or a family member while programming the indicator not to display notifications of communications from other people. A user may program the indicator to display notifications based on other filter too.

In some implementations the indicator can be programmed to provide notifications of events a user has listed in a calendar application. For example the indicator can be programmed to provide a notification having a particular color timing and brightness to indicate that a calendared event is scheduled to begin soon. If the device includes a location sensor e.g. based on GPS or based on sensing proximity to Wi Fi base stations having known locations the time at which the notification is displayed on the indicator can be based on an estimated time for the user to travel from their present location to the location of the calendared event.

In another implementation the indicator can be programmed to provide non text based information relevant to a gaming application that is executed on the computing device . For example the indicator can be programmed to display information such as a number of points scored e.g. by virtue of a length of a bar of light displayed within a rectangular lee shaped indicator a number of lives remaining e.g. by virtue of a number of segments of the indicator thing illuminated and or by simple animations.

In another implementation the indicator can be programmed to function as a kind of timer that provides a visual non text based indication of an amount of time remaining before a predetermined amount of time expires. For example if a timer is set for a predetermined time the indicator can be programmed to display a green color after the timer starts to display a yellow color after a first threshold time has elapsed and to display a red light when a second threshold time has elapsed. The threshold times can be absolute values or can be defined as percentages of the predetermined time for which the timer is set. Using the indicator has a timer in this manner can be useful for example when a speaker is giving a presentation to an audience and the computing device is proximate to the speaker so that the audience can easily see how much time allotted for the presentation remains.

In another implementation the indicator can be used in a meeting when participants of the meeting have computing devices that include such an indicator to indicate which participant has control over presenting slides that are displayed for review by participants of the meeting. When participants of the meeting have devices that are connected to a common network information can be exchanged between the devices to indicate which one of the participants is currently the presenter of the slides. The device that is presenting the slides can have an indicator that is programmed to display a different color scheme than the other devices to indicate that it is the device that is controlling the presentation of the slides.

In another implementation the indicator can be programmed to display non text based information about the current time and or weather in the location of the computing device. For example the indicator can be programmed to fade into twilight colors at dusk and to dimly lit colors as night falls. For example the indicator can be programmed to display colors representing current weather in the location of the computing device. For example the indicator can be programmed to display a blue background with a yellow circle to indicate sunny weather a blue background with white spots to indicate cumulus clouds light gray to indicate overcast conditions dark gray and or dark gray with streaks of silver to indicate falling rain dark gray with flashes of white to indicate thunder and lightning etc. In some implementations the indicator can be programmed to display information about a current time and or weather in a location different from the current location of the computing device. For example a user traveling with his or her computing device can program the indicator to display non text based information about the current weather at his or her home rather than at his or her current location.

In another example non text based information can be displayed on the indicator about the status of a home or building. For example when the indicator is used to display information about a user s home automation setup one segment of the indicator can be illuminated in red to indicate that a heater is on or could be illuminated in blue to indicate that an air conditioner is on or could take on a range of colors to indicate a temperature of the house e.g. from deep blue for very cold to deep red for very hot . Another segment can be used to indicate the status of an alarm system e.g. green for armed yellow for unarmed and flashing red for alarm violation . Another segment can be used to indicate the status of a data network used in the home e.g. from green for a relatively low traffic over the network to red for relatively high traffic . The computing device can receive information about the status of a user s home automation setup over a network and can display information about the setup with the indicator even when the computing device is not local to the user s home.

As described herein the indicator can be programmed to display a wide variety of non text based information. The indicator can be programmed to display information according to instructions developed in accordance with an enterprise policy to display information relevant to the interests of an enterprise or organization associated with the computing device. The indicator can be programmed to display information according to instructions provided by a system administrator who may have privileges beyond those of an end user of the device. The indicator can be programmed to display information according to a user preference e.g. to display information about weather of the location preferred by a user . The indicator can be programmed to display information about an application setting e.g. to display information relevant to a game application .

In the process instructions are received from an application executing on the computing device . In some implementations the application can be a browser application or an operating system application. The instructions are applied to the indicator via an API . In response to the application of the instruction non text based information is displayed by the multi segment multi color indicator .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

It will be appreciated that the above implementations that have been described in particular detail are merely example or possible implementations and that there are many other combinations additions or alternatives that may be included.

Also the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Furthermore the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present features in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations may be used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

