---

title: Method and compositions for targeted drug delivery to the lower GI tract
abstract: A composition and method for targeted delivery of substances to the lower GI tract comprises a base or scaffold carrier to which a drug or prodrug is fixed or covalently attached. Compound, when taken orally travels through the GI tract of a patient to the lower GI where bacterial azo reductace enzymes cleave the bonds, releasing the drug or prodrug from the base or scaffold carrier permitting the delivery of the drug to the vicinity of a target cell type in the GI tract. The base or scaffold, which remains as a by-product passes out of the GI tract in the feces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09415110&OS=09415110&RS=09415110
owner: The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of the Univeristy of Arizona
number: 09415110
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140506
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 821 166 filed May 8 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. P30 CA023074 R01 CA097360 R01 CA123547 R01 DK041274 R01 DK067286 and R37 DK033209 awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH . The government has certain rights in the invention

This invention relates generally to the field of medicine and more specifically to methods and compositions for targeted delivery of substances to the lower GI tract. The invention has particular utility for delivery of drugs for treating or preventing diseases of the colon and in particular inflammatory bowel disease microscopic colitis eosinophilic colitis and will be described in connection with such utility although other utilities are contemplated.

Millions of people in the world suffer from inflammatory bowel disease IBD . IBD is a collective term used to describe two gastrointestinal disorders of unknown etiology Crohn s disease CD and ulcerative colitis UC . Both diseases appear to result from the unrestrained activation of an inflammatory response in the intestine. Ulcerative colitis occurs in the large intestine while Crohn s disease can involve any segment of the gastrointestinal tract. It has been suggested that the pathogenesis of IBD is multifactorial involving susceptibility genes and environmental factors. Although the causative triggers remain unclear the role of a persistent and likely dysregulated mucosal immune response is central to the pathogenesis of IBD. It remains unclear whether the persistent inflammation an intrinsic feature of IBD reflects a primary aberration in mucosal response or results from an inappropriate persistent stimulation.

The course and prognosis of IBD varies widely. For most patients it is a chronic condition with symptoms lasting for months to years. IBD is most commonly diagnosed in young adults but can occur at any age. The clinical symptoms of IBD include intermittent rectal bleeding fever abdominal pain and diarrhea which may range from mild to severe. Additional common signs of IBD are anemia and weight loss. 10 to 15 of all IBD patients will require surgery over a ten year period. Protracted IBD is a risk factor for colon cancer and the risk begins to rise significantly after eight to ten years of IBD.

Bowel disorders such as IBD are a significant medical problem and improved methods of treatment are necessary as no completely satisfactory treatments are currently available.

The first line therapy that often is used for treatment of IBD is 5 aminosalicylic acid 5 ASA . A key to successful treatment is to deliver a high concentration of 5 ASA to the site of inflammation. However when 5 ASA is administered orally without a carrier or protector it is nearly completely systemically absorbed in the proximal small intestine prior to reaching the affected area and is extensively metabolized in intestinal epithelial cells and the liver it is then excreted in the urine which may predispose patients to the development of a nephrotic syndrome as a side effect. Therefore strategies to protect orally administered 5 ASA from absorption until it reaches the colon have been developed. These strategies include the use of prodrug delayed release formulations coat the drug with polymers controlled release formulations formulate the 5 ASA as ethylcellulose coated microgranules and more recently sophisticated formulations that combine both delayed release and sustained release mechanisms.

Various strategies have been proposed for targeting orally administered drugs to the colon including covalent linkage of a drug with a carrier including those that enhance stability as well as increasing hydrophilicity coating with pH sensitive polymers formulation of timed released systems exploitation of carriers that are degraded specifically by colonic bacteria bioadhesive systems and osmotic controlled drug delivery systems. Various prodrugs sulfasalazine ipsalazine balsalazide and olsalazine have been developed that are aimed to deliver 5 aminosalicylic acid 5 ASA for localized chemotherapy of inflammatory bowel disease IBD . Microbially degradable polymers especially azo crosslinked polymers have been investigated for use as coatings for drugs targeted to the colon. Certain plant polysaccharides such as amylose inulin pectin and guar gum remain unaffected in the presence of gastrointestinal enzymes and have been explored as coatings for drugs for the formulation of colon targeted drug delivery systems. Additionally combinations of plant polysaccharides with crustacean extract including chitosan or derivatives thereof are proving of interest for the development of colonic delivery systems.

The concept of using pH as a trigger to release a drug in the colon is based on the pH conditions that vary continuously down the gastrointestinal tract GIT . Time dependent drug delivery systems have been developed that are based on a principle of preventative release of drug until 3 hours after leaving the stomach. Redox sensitive polymers and bioadhesive systems have also been exploited to deliver the drugs into the colon. Other systems for drug delivery to the colon pH dependent systems exploit the generally accepted view that pH of the human GIT increases progressively from the stomach pH 1 which increases to during digestion small intestine pH 6 7 at the site of digestion and it increases to 7 8 in the distal ileum. The coating of pH sensitive polymers to the tablets capsules or pellets provides delayed release and protects the active drug from gastric fluid. The polymers used for colon targeting however should be able to withstand the lower pH values of the stomach and of the proximal part of the small intestine and also be able to disintegrate at the neutral or slightly alkaline pH of the terminal ileum and preferably at the ileocecal junction.

Lorenzo Lamosa et al. Design of microcncapsulated chitosan microspheres for colonic drug delivery. J Control Rel 52 109 118 1998 prepared and demonstrated the efficacy of a system which combines specific biodegradability and pH dependent release behaviour. The system consists of chitosan microcores entrapped within acrylic microspheres containing diclofenac sodium as a model drug. The drug was effectively entrapped within the chitosan microcores using spray drying and then microencapsulated into Eudragit L 100 and Eudragit S 100 acrylic polymers using an oil in oil solvent evaporation method. Release of the drug from chitosan multireservoir system was adjusted by changing the chitosan molecular weight or the type of chitosan salt. Furthermore by coating the chitosan microcores with Eudragit perfect pH dependent release profiles were attained. Similarly melt extrusion of a drug with various Eudragit polymers in the presence or absence of chitosan gelling agents or the like has the potential to enable colon specific release.

Other suitable polymers that are slightly permeable to the active ingredient and water and exhibit a pH dependent permeability include but are not limited to EUDRAGIT RL EUDRAGIT RS EUDRAGIT L EUDRAGIT S and EUDRAGIT E. See also Dressman J. B. Amidon C. Reppas C. and Shah V. P. Dissolution testing as a prognostic tool for oral drug absorption Immediate release dosage forms Pharm Res 15 11 22 1998.

Polysaccharides which retain their integrity because they are resistant to the digestive action of gastrointestinal enzymes also have been proposed for encapsulating drugs for colonic drug delivery. The matrices of polysaccharides are assumed to remain intact in the physiological environment of stomach and small intestine but once they reach in the colon they are acted upon by the bacterial polysaccharidases and this action results in the degradation of the matrices. This family of natural polymers has an appeal to the area of drug delivery as it is comprised of polymers with a large number of derivatizable groups a wide range of molecular weights varying chemical compositions and for the most part a low toxicity and biodegradability yet a high stability. The most favourable property of these materials is that they are already approved as pharmaceutical excipients. A large number of polysaccharides such as amylose guar gum pectin chitosan inulin cyciodextrins chondroitin sulphate dextrans and locust bean gum as well as modifications thereof have been investigated for their use in colon targeted drug delivery systems. The most important fact in the development of polysaccharide derivatives for colon targeted drug delivery is the selection of a suitable biodegradable polysaccharide. As these polysaccharides are usually soluble in water they must be made water insoluble by crosslinking or hydrophobic derivatisation.

Guar gum is hydrophilic in nature and swells in cold water forming viscous colloidal dispersions or sols. This gelling property retards release of the drug from the dosage form and renders it susceptible to degradation in the colonic environment. Homogenized and diluted feces from a human source were incubated with the guar gum to investigate the degradation of the polysaccharide sol by intestinal microflora. It produced a rapid decrease in viscosity and an increase in pH i.e. became more basic while no such results were observed when it was incubated with autoclaved fecal homogenates. Guar gum was crosslinked with increasing amounts of trisodium trimetaphosphate to reduce its swelling properties for use as a vehicle in oral delivery formulations. As a result of the crosslinking procedure guar gum lost its non ionic nature and became negatively charged. This was demonstrated by methylene blue adsorption studies and swelling studies in sodium chloride solutions with increasing concentrations in which the hydrogels network collapsed Gliko Kabir I. Yagen B. Penhasi A. and Rubinstein A. Phosphated crosslinked guar for colon specific drug delivery. I. Preparation and physicochemical characterization. J Control Rel 63 121 127 2000 . Crosslinked guar gum products were analysed to check the efficacy as a colon specific drug carrier and it was found that the product which was crosslinked with 0.1 molar equivalent of trisodium trimetaphosphate was able to prevent the release of 80 of its hydrocortisone load for at least hours in PBS pH 6.4 . When a mixture of galactosidase and mannanase was added to the buffer solution an enhanced release was observed. In vivo degradation studies in the rat caecum showed that despite the chemical modification of guar gum it retained its enzyme degrading properties in a crosslinker concentration dependent manner. A novel tablet formulation for oral administration using guar gum as the carrier and indomethacin as a model drug has been investigated for colon targeted drug delivery using in vitro methods. Drug release studies under conditions simulating the gastrointestinal transit have shown that guar gum protects the drug from being released completely in the physiological environment of stomach and small intestine. Studies in pH 6.8 PBS containing rat caecal contents have demonstrated the susceptibility of guar gum to the colonic bacterial enzyme action with consequent drug release Rama Prasad Y. V. Krishnaiah Y. S. R. and Satyanarayana S. In vitro evaluation of guar gum as a carrier for colon specific drug delivery. J Control Rel 51 281 287 1998 . Colon specific drug delivery also has been proposed using dried amylose films to encapsulate pharmaceutical formulations. Amylose one of the major fractions of starch possesses the ability to form films through gelation when prepared under appropriate conditions. The microstructure of the film is potentially resistant to the action of pancreatic amylase but is digested by amylases of the colonic microflora. However under simulated gastrointestinal conditions coatings made solely of amylose will become porous and allow drug release. Incorporation of insoluble polymers into the amylose film to control amylose swelling provides a solution to this problem. A range of cellulose and acrylate based copolymers were assessed of which a commercially available ethylcellulose Ethocel was found to control the swelling most effectively. The in vitro dissolution of various coated pellets under simulated gastric and small intestinal conditions using commercially available pepsin and pancreatin was determined and demonstrated the resistance of the amylose Ethocel coat 1 4 to such conditions over a period of 12 h Milojevic S. Newton J. M. Cummings J. H. Gibson G. R. Botham R. L. Ring S. C. Stoekham M. and Allwood M. C. Amylose as a coating for drug delivery the colon Preparation and in vitro evaluation using 5 aminosalicylic acid pellets. J Control Rel 38 75 84 1996 .

Chitosan is a high molecular weight polycationic polysaccharide derived from naturally occurring chitin by alkaline deacetylation. Chitosan has favourable biological properties such as nontoxicity biocompatibility and biodegradability. Similar to other polysaccharides it also undergoes degradation by the action of colonic microflora and hence poses its candidature for colon targeted drug delivery. Tozaki et al. Tozaki H. Odoriba T. Okada N. Fujita T. Terabe A. Suzuki T. Okabe S. Mumishi S and Yamamoto A. Chitosan capsules for colon specific drug delivery enhanced localization of 5 aminosalicylic acid in the large intestine accelerates healing of TNBS induced colitis in rats. J Control Rel 82 51 61 2002 developed colon specific insulin delivery with chitosan capsules. In vitro drug release experiments from chitosan capsules containing 5 6 carboxyfluorescein CF were carried out by a rotating basket method with slight modifications. The intestinal absorption of insulin was evaluated by measuring the plasma insulin levels and its hypoglycaemic effects after oral administration of the chitosan capsules containing insulin and additives. Little release of CF from the capsules was observed in an artificial gastric juice pH 1 or in an artificial intestinal juice pH 7 . However the release of CF was markedly increased in the presence of rat caecal contents. This group further evaluated colon specific insulin delivery using chitosan capsules. It was found that these were stable in the stomach and small intestine but degraded by micro organisms in rat caecal contents upon entering into the colon proving their utility as carriers for colon targeted drug delivery of peptide and non peptide drugs.

Pectin a predominantly linear polymer of mainly 1 4 linked D polygalacturonic acid residues has been widely investigated as a colon specific drug delivery entity. It can be broken down by pectinase enzymes produced by anaerobic bacteria of the colon and can control drug release by this principle Atyabi et al Carbohyd. Polymers 2005 61 39 51 . As pectin is water soluble efficient colonic delivery requires that the solubility is controlled. Liu et al. Liu et al Biomaterials 2003 24 3333 3343 demonstrated promising drug delivery potential when pectin was combined with water insoluble polymers. Previously Wakerly et al. Wakerly et al. Pharm. Res. 1996 13 8 1210 1212 identified that a combination of ethylcellulose and pectin could provide protection of a drug in the upper GI tract while allowing enzymatic breakdown and drug release in the colon. Wei et al. Wei et al. PDA Journal of Pharmaceutical Science and Technology Vol 61 No. 2 March April 2007 121 130 demonstrated that colon specific controlled release of the water soluble anticancer agent 5 fluorouracil was possible when incorporated into pellets that were coated with various proportions of pectin and ethycellulose Surlease .

Redox potential is an expression of the total metabolic and bacterial activity in the colon and it is believed to be insensitive to dietary changes. The mean redox potential in proximal small bowel is 67 90 mV in the distal small bowel is 196 97 mV and in the colon is 145 72 mV. Thus microflora induced changes in the redox potential can be used as a highly selective mechanism for targeting to the colon. Bragger et al. Investigations into the azo reducing activity of a common colonic microorganism. Int J Pharm 157 61 71 1997 carried out investigations into the azo reducing activity which could enlighten some factors affecting the bacterial reduction cleavage of azo compounds. A common colonic bacterium was used as test organism and the reductions of azo dyes amaranth Orange II tartrazine and a model azo compound 4 4 dihydroxyazobenzene were studied. It was found that the azo compounds were reduced at different rates and the rate of reduction could be correlated with the redox potential of the azo compounds. Disulfide compounds can also undergo degradation due to the influence of redox potential in the colon. Noncrosslinked redox sensitive polymers containing an azo and or a disulfide linkage in the backbone have been synthesised Schacht E. and Wilding I. R. Process for the preparation of azo and or disulfide containing polymers. Patent WO 9111175 .

The foregoing discussion of prior art derives primarily from U.S. patent publication 2010 0255087 to Coulter who proposed oral pharmaceutical compositions comprising mini capsules containing one or more active pharmaceutical compounds in a liquid semi solid or solid core mini capsule format wherein the mini capsules have release profiles intended to release the active pharmaceutical compound at one or more sites along the gastro intestinal tract where absorption is maximized or therapeutic efficacy is maximized. More particularly according to the 087 publication the mini capsules are formed of or have coatings formed of materials that are sensitive to one or more pH time thickness erosion and bacterial breakdown to achieve a desired release of active pharmaceutical agents along the gastro intestinal tract.

The present disclosure provides improvements in oral pharmaceutical compositions by providing compounds comprising a base or scaffold carrier to which a drug or prodrug is fixed or covalently attached. The compound which includes azo or disulfide bonds when taken orally in pill or capsule or suspension or liquid form travels through the GI tract of a patient to the lower GI tract where bacterial azoreductase enzymes cleave azo or disulfide bonds releasing the drug or prodrug from the base or scaffold carrier permitting delivery of the drug to the vicinity of the target cell type in the GI tract. The base or scaffold which remains as a by product passes out of the GI tract in the feces causing no side effects. As a result a high concentration of drug is delivered to a target site permitting a lower dose while enhancing the therapeutic effect of the drug with fewer side effects.

The pharmaceutical composition in accord with the present disclosure comprises a base or carrier scaffold formed of a food grade polyhydroxol compound preferably a sugar more preferably an octaalkyne having a linker as will be described below to which a drug or prodrug is fixed or covalently bonded.

Various food grade polyhydroxol compounds are available commercially and advantageously may be used according to the present disclosure including but not limited to 

monosaccharides such as triose tetrose pentose hexose and heptose aldols ketoses sugar alcohols or sugar acids 

The linker one or more copies of which are covalently bonded to the polyhydroxol compound may be comprised of a straight chain a branched and or a cyclic segment composed of a hydrocarbon a heteroatom interrupted hydrocarbon for one example a polyethyleneglycol an arene or a heterocyclic ring for one example a triazole.

The drug or prodrug will comprise a pharmaceutical compound for example para aminophenol 5 aminosalicylic acid 5 fluorouracil and imiquimod as such or in a prodrug form due to chemical attachment to the scaffold through the linker. A preferred pharmaceutical compound intended for delivery of 5 aminosalicyclic acid 5 ASA to the lower gastrointestinal tract comprises eight 8 molecules of 5 ASA in the form of a prodrug linked to a sucrose derived octaalkyne as compound I shown in .

Then an excess of the azide depicted in is reacted with the octaalkyne from in the presence of copper sulfate and sodium ascorbate in tetrahydrofuran to produce compound I. .

The resulting compound I may be delivered to the patient orally in pill or suspension form where it travels through the GI tract to the lower GI where bacterial azoreductase enzymes cleave the azo bonds releasing the drug 5 aminosalicylic acid from its prodrug form. The remaining scaffold linker byproduct passes out of the GI in the feces having caused no side effects. This same mode of drug delivery may be utilized for related prodrug forms of para aminophenol 5 fluorouracil and imiquimod among other possibilities. Attachment to the scaffold along with the prodrug of one or more copies of a ligand targeted to a cell type of interest permits delivery of a pharmaceutical compound to the vicinity of the cell type of interest in the GI tract. This delivery system enhances the therapeutic effect by placing the highest concentration of drug where it is most useful. This is demonstrated by studies performed as reported below.

The following examples illustrate preparation and use of a carrier scaffold drug or prodrug in accordance with the present disclosure.

To a suspension of NaH 330 mg 13.7 mmol in dry dimethylformamide DMF 10 mL under argon were added sucrose 200 mg 0.58 mmol 6 bromo 1 hexyne 1.13 g 6.97 mmol and tetrabutylammonium bromide 50 mg 0.15 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 h. The reaction was quenched with sat NHCl and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried over NaSO and filtered. Removal of volatiles in vacuo afforded a residue that was subjected to silica gel chromatography 63 210 m using ethyl acetate hexanes 2 8 as elutant. This afforded 250 mg 0.25 mmol 43 of product as a colorless oil R0.6 ethyl acetate hexanes 3 7 17.0 c 0.5 CHCl IR cm 3308 2928 2854 1213 1152 1094 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.57 1.71 m 32H 1.95 m 8H 2.18 2.23 m 16H 3.17 dd J 9.5 Hz J 3.4 Hz 1H 3.28 t J 9.5 Hz 1H 3.35 3.71 m 20H 3.77 3.92 m 5H 4.07 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 5.50 d J 3.8 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 18.3 24.7 25.3 28.6 28.7 29.1 29.2 29.6 31.7 62.3 68.4 68.5 69.5 70.2 70.5 70.6 70.8 71.0 71.1 71.7 72.3 72.4 72.7 79.5 80.5 81.6 82.9 84.0 84.2 84.3 89.9 104.3 HRMS MALDI TOF calculated for CHNaO M Na 1005.6068 observed 1005.6068.

Anhydrous KCO 5.50 g 39.8 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4 nitrophenol 3.69 g 26.5 mmol and 1 8 dibromooctane 36.00 g 132.1 mmol in acetone. The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 12 h then cooled to ambient temperature and filtered. The residue was washed with acetone 3 15 mL and the combined organic layers evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc 50 mL the solution washed with water 2 20 mL brine dried over NaSO filtered volatiles evaporated in vacuo and the residue subjected to column chromatography on silica gel 230 400 mesh using hexanes as elutant to afford 7.75 g 23.5 mmol 89 of product as a low melting solid mp 39 40 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.35 1.50 m 8H 1.79 1.89 m 4H 3.41 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 4.04 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 6.93 d J 10 Hz 2H 8.18 d J 9.5 2H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 27.9 28.5 28.8 29.0 29.2 32.6 33.9 68.7 114.3 125.8 129.3 141.2 164.1 HRMS EI calculated for CHBrNO M 329.6027 observed 329.6040.

Into a glass hydrogenation vessel were added 1 8 bromooctyloxy 4 nitrobenzene 5.00 g 15.1 mmol and absolute ethanol 50 mL . Carefully 10 Pd C 0.5 g was added the vessel was charged with hydrogen 40 psi and the mixture was shaken on a Pan hydrogenation apparatus. After 3 h the mixture was diluted with CHCl 25 mL filtered through a Celite pad and volatiles removed in vacuo to give 4.20 g 14.0 mmol 93 of as a pale pink solid mp 61 63 C. This material was used without purification in the next reaction. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.27 1.44 m 8H 1.75 1.84 m 4H 3.39 t J 5.0 Hz 2H 3.89 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 6.77 6.88 m 2H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 22.7 25.9 26.0 28.1 28.7 29.2 29.4 31.8 32.8 34.0 68.5 115.7 118.6 135.2 154.1 HRMS ESI calculated for CHBrNO M H 300.0957 observed 300.0963.

4 8 Bromooctyloxy aniline 2.30 g 7.7 mmol was suspended in a mixture of concentrated hydrochloric acid mL and water 75 mL . The resulting solution was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath. Sodium nitrite 0.83 g 12.1 mmol in water 10 mL was added dropwise to the reaction mixture with rapid stirring over about 20 min. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 20 min while salicylic acid 3.68 g 26.6 mmol was dissolved in an aqueous NaOH solution 8.0 g NaOH in 100 mL HO . This basic salicylic acid solution was vigorously stirred at 0 C. and the solution of the diazonium salt added dropwise. The pH was maintained at 12 14 by adding 8M NaOH solution. After the addition was complete the solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for an additional 30 min. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL washed with water 3 20 mL 5 NaHCO 2 20 mL brine dried over NaSO and filtered. Volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue subjected to column chromatography on silica gel 60 230 400 mesh using EtOAc and methanol 98 2 as elutant. The product 1.40 g 3.1 mmol 40 was obtained as a red brown solid mp 180 182 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.25 1.44 m 8H 1.72 1.85 m 4H 3.38 t J Hz 2H 3.93 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 6.86 6.91 m 3H 7.69 d J Hz 2H 7.84 dd J 10 Hz Hz 1H 8.42 s 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 25.8 25.9 28.0 28.5 29.0 29.1 29.2 31.7 32.7 33.9 35.2 68.1 113.3 118.4 123.1 124.0 126.1 127.5 144.9 146.5 161.0 HRMS ESI calculated for CHBrNO M H 449.1070 observed 449.1063.

5 4 8 Bromooctyloxy phenyl diazenyl 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 2.50 g 5.6 mmol was dissolved in DMSO 40 mL and NaN 1.10 g 16.9 mmol was added slowly to the reaction mixture with stirring at room temperature. After 48 h the mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL washed with water 4 20 mL brine 20 mL dried over NaSO and filtered. Volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue subjected to column chromatography on silica gel 60 230 400 mesh using EtOAc and methanol 98 2 as the elutant to give 2.10 g 5.1 mmol 91 of the product as a red brown solid mp 54 56 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.27 1.58 m 8H 1.62 1.64 m 2H 1.81 1.86 m 2H 3.31 t J 5 Hz 2H 4.06 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 6.88 7.01 m 3H 7.84 d J 10 Hz 2H 7.91 dd J 15 Hz 2.5 Hz 1H 8.47 d J 2.5 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl CDOD 22.0 25.3 25.4 28.5 28.6 28.8 31.2 50.8 67.7 114.1 116.5 117.5 123.6 126.2 144.6 146.2 160.7 175.0 HRMS ESI calculated for CHNO M H 412.1979 observed 412.1971.

To a stirred solution of 5 4 8 azidooctyloxy phenyl diazenyl 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 400 mg 0.97 mmol in acetone 20 mL was added powdered anhydrous potassium carbonate 270 mg 1.94 mmol . Dimethyl sulfate 92 mg 0.97 mmol was then added dropwise at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 20 min and then allowed to cool to ambient temperature. Volatiles were removed in vacuo the residue taken up in EtOAc 40 mL the solution washed with water 2 20 mL brine dried over NaSO and filtered. Volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue subjected to column chromatography on silica gel 60 230 400 mesh using EtOAc and hexanes 95 5 as the elutant to give 210 mg 0.49 mmol 50 of the product as a yellow solid mp 58 60 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.39 1.51 m 8H 1.64 qt 2H 1.83 qt 2H 3.28 t J Hz 2H 4.02 s 3H 4.05 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 7.88 d J Hz 2H 8.07 dd J Hz 2.5 Hz 1H 8.42 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 11.06 s 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 25.9 26.7 28.8 29.1 29.2 51.5 52.5 68.2 112.4 114.7 118.3 124.5 126.0 128.7 145.5 146.7 161.5 163.3 170.3 HRMS ESI calculated for CHNO M H 426.2135 observed 426.2141.

A mixture of THF and water 9 1 20 mL was degassed with argon for 10 min. Methyl 5 4 8 Azidooctyloxy phenyl diazenyl 2 hydroxybenzoate 880 mg 2.07 mmol and octa O 5 hexyn 1 yl 3 D fructofuranosyl D glucopyranoside 200 mg 0.203 mmol were added and degassing was continued for 5 min. Copper sulfate 26 mg 0.02 mmol 10 mol and sodium ascorbate 64 mg 0.04 mmol 20 mol were added and the solution was stirred under argon. Progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC using 10 methanol in CHClplus 0.1 ammonium hydroxide. After 12 h the mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL washed with water 3 50 mL brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and volatiles removed in vacuo. The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel 60 230 400 mesh eluted with 20 EtOAc and hexanes 250 mL and with 10 methanol in CHClplus 0.1 ammonium hydroxide to give 600 mg 0.137 mmol 68 of the product as a red brown solid mp 50 51 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.20 1.75 m 144H 2.56 2.84 m 16H 3.10 4.10 m 13H 3.75 4.15 m 40H 4.25 4.30 m 16H 5.49 m 1H 6.90 7.10 m 24H 7.30 7.40 m 8H 7.90 8.10 m 24H 8.35 8.40 m 8H 11.00 11.10 m 8H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 25.29 25.40 25.43 25.46 25.58 25.61 25.65 25.66 25.71 25.82 25.86 26.08 26.17 26.20 26.23 26.26 26.29 26.35 26.41 28.88 29.07 29.59 29.61 29.69 29.76 30.28 30.85 32.12 50.03 52.47 68.13 70.52 70.57 71.03 71.31 72.51 72.63 72.95 76.72 76.98 77.23 112.26 114.57 118.23 120.60 124.42 125.89 128.59 145.34 146.54 161.34 163.19 170.36 HRMS MALDI TOF calculated for CHNNaO4410.1 M Na observed 4409.5 average mass .

Octatriazole octaester mg mL was dissolved in 1 9 THF aqueous 2N acetic acid pH approximately 2.2 and the solution kept at room temperature under air. Aliquots were removed at h h h and 24 h extracted with ethyl acetate which removed all the color from the aqueous phase and the extracts analyzed by TLC and finally by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry. No decomposition was observed.

Octatriazole octaester 600 mg 0.137 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of THF and methanol 9 1 75 mL aqueous 2N LiOH 25 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. Progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC using 10 methanol in CHClplus 0.1 ammonium hydroxide. After 24 h the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 75 mL the organic phases combined washed with water 50 mL brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and volatiles removed in vacuo to leave the product as a yellow viscous liquid 538 mg 0.12 mmol 90 which was used in the next step without purification. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 1.10 1.80 m 144H 2.50 2.60 m 16H 3.00 4.40 m 45H 5.36 m 1H 6.90 7.20 m 24H 7.65 8.40 m 40H C NMR 125 MHz DMSO 24.74 24.81 24.88 25.31 25.53 25.58 25.63 25.77 28.29 28.51 28.73 28.99 29.16 29.21 29.26 29.67 29.87 30.25 31.98 33.97 34.20 34.70 39.00 39.17 39.33 39.50 39.67 39.76 39.83 39.92 40.00 43.05 49.08 54.88 60.39 65.89 67.82 113.75 114.77 114.93 118.07 121.33 122.36 124.18 124.24 125.15 125.83140.69 128.41 139.06 140.61 142.68 144.38 145.62 145.84 146.60 148.06 152.64 161.02 163.20 171.44 186.04 HRMS MALDI TOF calculated for CHNNaO M Na 4298.0 observed 4299.3 average mass .

Octatriazole octaacid from the previous section was dissolved in a mixture of acetonitrile and water 1 9 plus a few drops of DMSO and the solution loaded onto a column packed with 150 g of Dowex 50w 8x sodium form . The column was eluted with distilled water 300 mL the volume of the eluent reduced in vacuo to approximately 50 mL and the solution subjected to lypholyzation to give 480 mg 0.10 mmol 90 of the product as a non hygroscopic bright yellow solid mp 74 76 C. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 1.10 1.80 m 128H 2.40 2.60 m 32H 3.00 4.30 m 45H 5.30 m 1H 6.90 7.40 m 24H 7.60 7.80 m 32H 8.20 8.30 m 8H HRMS MALDI TOF calculated for CHNNaO M Na 4298.0 observed 4298.2 average mass .

In the first study Dextran Sulfate Sodium Salt DSS was added to the drinking water of the mice male BALB c mice aged 8 10 weeks n per group at a concentrations of 4 for a period of five days followed by normal drinking water for seven days. Mice were given daily gastric gavage of the placebo suspension medium Ora Blend SF Paddock Laboratories or test compounds suspended in Ora Blend SF using reusable feeding gavage needles straight 25 mm 22G 1.25 mm tip diameter Fine Science Tools . Groups 1 regular drinking water placebo 2 DSS placebo 3 DSS sulfasalazine 111.5 mg kg day 4 DSS compound 155.7 mg kg day . Mice were measured daily for changes in weight compared to the starting weight. Upon completion of the study the colon was harvested from each mouse. Colons were weighed and measured for length. Sulfasalazine 2 was purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Compound was made as described in this paper. DSS was purchased from Affymetrix. In the second study the percentage of DSS was reduced to 3 and the mice were exposed for days followed by days with water.

Mesenteric lymph nodes MLNs were harvested from the mice and gently disassociated using the frosted ends of sterilized glass slides to get a single cell suspension. The total cell suspension from the MLNs was then exposed to CD3 CD28 activation Dynabeads purchased from Invitrogen using the manufacturer s protocol to stimulate proliferation of T cells and their associated cytokine production. Quantification of cytokines was measured with a multiplex panel kit from the Millipore Corporation using the manufacturer s protocol and LiquiChip Luminex 100 Qiagen . The cytokines measured included IFN IL 17 TNF IL 1 IL 6 and MMP8 the latter as a surrogate marker of mucosal neutrophil infiltration . Duplicates of samples were tested. MasterPlex QT software Mirai Bio was used for data analysis.

The present disclosure has been described in connection with delivery to the colon of a drug or prodrug for treating IBD microscopic colits and eosinophilic colitis. However the same technology may be employed for delivery of other drugs or prodrug to the lower GI tract or other sites along the GI tract. The delivery system also may be used for colonic targeting drugs currently existing on the market or in development for the treatment of other diseases and infections of the lower GI tract including but not limited to colorectal cancer prevention and treatment colonic polyps acute and chronic diarrheal diseases bacterial overgrowth diverticulitis irritable bowel syndrome and other types of functional abdominal pain disorders. The delivery system also may be used for delivering compounds isolated from probiotics strains directly to a targeted region in the lower GI tract.

A feature and advantage of the present disclosure is that the delivery system permits delivery of 5 ASA and other drugs and prodrugs in liquid form which permits addition of the drugs or prodrugs to beverages ice cream or the like. The lack of commercially available oral liquid formulations poses a frequent challenge in providing medications to pediatric patients geriatric patients patients with feeding tubes and patients who cannot swallow solid dosage forms. Such a formulation would be invaluable for pediatric gastroenterologists for the treatment of early onset IBD in order eliminate difficulties related to the size of delayed release tablets capsules increase palatability compliance and ultimately clinical efficacy.

Various features may be made in the foregoing disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

