---

title: Ribotoxin molecules derived from sarcin and other related fungal ribotoxins
abstract: The present application relates to modified T cell epitopes derived from fungal ribotoxins, including a-sarcin, clavin, gigantin, mitogillin, and restrictocin, as well as modified ribotoxin molecules comprising one or more of the modified epitopes. The modified ribotoxin molecules inhibit protein synthesis, like the wild type ribotoxins, but exhibit reduced immunogenicity as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. Another aspect relates to a fusion protein which comprises a modified ribotoxin fused or conjugated or otherwise linked to a targeting molecule that is effective for binding a target of interest. Another aspect relates to the use of the modified ribotoxin or fusion protein for treating or managing a disease or condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603911&OS=09603911&RS=09603911
owner: RESEARCH CORPORATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09603911
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140303
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage application of PCT US2014 020035 filed 3 Mar. 2014 which claims the benefit of and relies on the filing date of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 902 972 filed 12 Nov. 2013 and U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 783 589 filed 14 Mar. 2013 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Feb. 27 2014 is named 0185.0001 PCT SL.txt and is 42 413 bytes in size.

 Sarcin was one of the first ribotoxins to be discovered as a product of the mold MDH18894 in 1965. It was named because of its toxicity to certain sarcoma cell lines. This toxicity was determined later in the mid 1970s to be due to specific cleavage by the toxin of a certain segment of ribosomal RNA the sarcin ricin loop conserved throughout the animal kingdom. Cleavage of that ribosomal RNA by the toxin inhibits protein production by the cell. It is highly toxic killing cells through an apoptotic mechanism.

 Sarcin is a 150 amino acid protein Lacadena et al. 2007 FEMS Microbiol Rev 31 212 237 . Much is known about the structure of sarcin. Tyr48 His50 Glu96 Arg121 His137 and Leu145 are critical amino acids for the active site of the RNAse activity. The five stranded beta sheet and single helix are important for the molecule s 3D structure. The protein contains two disulfide bonds. Most of the natural variation between sarcin and molecules from related organisms resides in the loops between these structural elements. Deletion of amino acids 7 22 does not appear to affect the protein s conformation. It did however affect membrane interaction. The molecule is highly negatively charged with a high isoelectric point. Amino acids 116 139 may be involved in cell membrane interactions such as crossing of the cell membrane. Asn54 may be involved in the binding pocket for the substrate. Arg121 may be critical for interaction with lipid membranes. The immunogenicity of sarcin has not been well studied.

Other fungal ribotoxins belong to the same family as sarcin and are produced by other species including for example clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin. The members of this family of ribotoxins share a high degree of amino acid identity generally greater than 85 . Lacadena et al. 2007 FEMS Microbiol Rev 31 212 237 and mediate toxicity through the same mechanism i.e. by cleaving a phosphodiester bond in the conserved sarcin ricin loop of ribosomal RNA. Clavin and gigantin are 150 amino acids in length while restrictocin and mitogillin which are variants of the same polypeptide isolated from are 149 amino acids in length.

Briefly the present disclosure features modified ribotoxin epitopes of the fungal ribotoxins including sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin e.g. modified ribotoxin epitopes. Without intending to be bound by any theory or mechanism it is believed that the modified ribotoxin epitopes disclosed in this application possess reduced binding to human MHC class II and or elicit a reduced T cell response as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin epitopes.

In one exemplary embodiment the modified T cell epitope comprises one or more amino acid modifications of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of XKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 44 wherein X is Q or DQ. In another exemplary embodiment the modified T cell epitope comprises one or more amino acid modifications of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of IIAHTKENQ SEQ ID NO 4 .

The present disclosure also features modified molecules based on the structure of the fungal ribotoxins including sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin e.g. modified ribotoxin molecules. Without intending to be bound by any theory or mechanism it is believed that the modified ribotoxin molecules of the present invention are less immunogenic to humans as compared to the wild type ribotoxin. A molecule s efficacy may be limited by an unwanted immune response particularly if the molecule is used in a therapeutic or prophylactic setting. Therefore it may be desirable in certain instances to reduce the immunogenicity of a molecule.

In one exemplary embodiment the modified sarcin polypeptide comprises at least one mutation as compared to a wild type sarcin polypeptide SEQ ID NO 1 wherein the at least one mutation is within a first T cell epitope and or a second T cell epitope of the wild type sarcin polypeptide wherein the first T cell epitope consists of the amino acid sequence XKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 44 wherein X is Q or DQ and the second T cell epitope consists of the amino acid sequence IIAHTKENQ SEQ ID NO 4 .

The present disclosure also features fusion proteins comprising modified ribotoxin molecules e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin and targeting molecules. Targeting molecules may include but are not limited to antibodies Fab fragments single chain variable fragments scFvs VH domains engineered CH2 domains peptides cytokines hormones other protein scaffolds etc. The fusion proteins may be used as therapeutic agents. For example in some embodiments the fusion proteins target an unwanted pathogen or a cancer cell. Thus certain embodiments are directed to methods of using a fusion protein comprising a modified ribotoxin molecule to treat or manage a disease or condition.

Another aspect is directed to nucleic acid constructs encoding the modified ribotoxin molecules e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin or fusion proteins comprising the same. The nucleic acid constructs can be used for example in a method of producing the modified ribotoxin molecule or fusion protein by expressing the nucleic acid construct in a host cell and isolating the modified ribotoxin molecule or fusion protein.

Any feature or combination of features described herein are included within the scope of the present invention provided that the features included in any such combination are not mutually inconsistent as will be apparent from the context this specification and the knowledge of one of ordinary skill in the art. Additional advantages and aspects of the present invention are apparent in the following detailed description.

In order to facilitate the review of the various embodiments of the invention the following explanations of specific terms are provided 

Definitions of common terms in molecular biology cell biology and immunology may be found in Thomas J. Kindt Richard A. Goldsby Barbara Anne Osborne Janis Kuby published by W.H. Freeman 2007 ISBN 1429202114 and Genes IX Benjamin Lewin published by Jones Bartlett Publishers 2007 ISBN 10 0763740632 .

Antibody A protein or complex that includes one or more polypeptides substantially encoded by immunoglobulin genes or fragments of immunoglobulin genes. The immunoglobulin genes may include the kappa lambda alpha gamma delta epsilon and mu constant region genes as well as the myriad of immunoglobulin variable region genes. Light chains may be classified as either kappa or lambda. Heavy chains may be classified as gamma mu alpha delta or epsilon which in turn define the immunoglobulin classes IgG IgM IgA IgD and IgE respectively.

As used herein the term antibodies includes intact immunoglobulins as well as fragments e.g. having a molecular weight between about 10 kDa to 100 kDa . Antibody fragments may include 1 Fab the fragment which contains a monovalent antigen binding fragment of an antibody molecule produced by digestion of whole antibody with the enzyme papain to yield an intact light chain and a portion of one heavy chain 2 Fab the fragment of an antibody molecule obtained by treating whole antibody with the enzyme pepsin followed by reduction to yield an intact light chain and a portion of the heavy chain two Fab fragments are obtained per antibody molecule 3 Fab 2 the fragment of the antibody obtained by treating whole antibody with the enzyme pepsin without subsequent reduction 4 F ab 2 a dimer of two Fab fragments held together by two disulfide bonds 5 Fv a genetically engineered fragment containing the variable region of the light chain and the variable region of the heavy chain expressed as two chains and 6 scFv single chain antibody a genetically engineered molecule containing the variable region of the light chain the variable region of the heavy chain linked by a suitable polypeptide linker as a genetically fused single chain molecule. Methods of making antibody fragments are routine see for example Harlow and Lane CSHL New York 1999 . Antibody fragments are not limited to the aforementioned examples e.g. an antibody fragment may include a V a V etc.

Antibodies can be monoclonal or polyclonal. Monoclonal antibodies can be prepared from a variety of methods e.g. methods involving phage display and human antibody libraries. Examples of procedures for monoclonal antibody production are described in Longberg and Huzar Int Rev Immunol. 1995 1365 93 Kellermann and Green Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2002 13 593 7 and Harlow and Lane CSHL New York 1999 . Classical methods of preparing murine hybridomas are discussed in Kohler and Milstein 256 495 97 1975 .

A standard humanized immunoglobulin such as a humanized antibody is an immunoglobulin including a human framework region and one or more CDRs from a non human e.g. mouse rat synthetic etc. immunoglobulin. A humanized antibody binds to the same or similar antigen as the donor antibody that provides the CDRs. The molecules can be constructed by means of genetic engineering see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 .

Antigen A compound composition or substance that can stimulate the production of antibodies or a T cell response including compositions that are injected or absorbed. An antigen Ag reacts with the products of specific humoral or cellular immunity. In some embodiments an antigen also may be the specific binding target of the modified sarcin molecule and or ribotoxin fusion protein e.g. binding moieties whether or not such interaction could produce an immunological response.

Avidity binding affinity e.g. increased as a result from bivalent or multivalent binding sites that may simultaneously bind to a multivalent target antigen or receptor that is either itself multimeric or is present on the surface of a cell or virus such that it can be organized into a multimeric form. For example the two Fab arms of an immunoglobulin can provide such avidity increase for an antigen compared with the binding of a single Fab arm since both sites must be unbound for the immunoglobulin to dissociate.

Binding affinity The strength of binding between a binding site and a ligand e.g. between a binding moiety e.g. an antibody and an antigen or epitope . The affinity of a binding site X for a ligand Y is represented by the dissociation constant Kd which is the concentration of Y that is required to occupy half of the binding sites of X present in a solution. A lower Kd indicates a stronger or higher affinity interaction between X and Y and a lower concentration of ligand is needed to occupy the sites. In general binding affinity can be affected by the alteration modification and or substitution of one or more amino acids in the epitope recognized by the paratope portion of the molecule that recognizes the epitope . Binding affinity can also be affected by the alteration modification and or substitution of one or more amino acids in the paratope. Binding affinity can be the affinity of antibody binding an antigen.

In one example binding affinity can be measured by end point titration in an Ag ELISA assay. Binding affinity can be substantially lowered or measurably reduced by the modification and or substitution of one or more amino acids in the epitope recognized by the antibody paratope if the end point titer of a specific antibody for the modified substituted epitope differs by at least 4 fold such as at least 10 fold at least 100 fold or greater as compared to the unaltered epitope.

CH2 or CH3 domain molecule A polypeptide or nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide derived from an immunoglobulin CH2 or CH3 domain. Unless noted otherwise the immunoglobulin can be IgG IgA IgD IgE or IgM. The CH2 or CH3 molecule is composed of a number of parallel strands connected by loops of unstructured amino acid sequence. The CH2 or CH3 domain molecule can further comprise an additional amino acid sequence s such as a complete hypervariable loop. In some embodiments the CH2 or CH3 domains comprise one or more mutations in a loop region of the molecule. In some embodiments the CH2 or CH3 domains comprise one or more mutations in a scaffold region e.g. for stabilization etc. . A loop region of a CH2 or CH3 domain refers to the portion of the protein located between regions of sheet for example each CH2 domain comprises seven sheets A to G oriented from the N to C terminus . A CH2 domain comprises six loop regions Loop 1 Loop 2 Loop 3 Loop A B Loop C D and Loop E F. Loops A B C D and E F are located between sheets A and B C and D and E and F respectively. Loops 1 2 and 3 are located between sheets B and C D and E and F and G respectively. These loops in the natural CH2 domain are often referred to as structural loops. Non limiting examples of CH2 domain molecules can be found in WO 2009 099961.

Naturally occurring CH2 and CH3 domain molecules are small in size usually less than 15 kD. Engineered CH2 and CH3 domain molecules can vary in size depending on the length of donor loops inserted in the loop regions how many donor loops are inserted and whether another molecule such as a binding moiety an effector molecule or a label is conjugated or linked to the CH2 or CH3 domain. The CH2 domain may be from IgG IgA or IgD. The CH2 domain may be from a CH3 domain from IgE or IgM which is homologous to the CH2 domains of IgG IgA or IgD.

CH2D A CH2 or CH3 domain molecule. The CH2 or CH3 domain molecule may be engineered such that the molecule specifically binds an antigen. The CH2 and CH3 domain molecules engineered to bind antigen are among the smallest known antigen specific binding antibody domain based molecules that can retain Fc receptor binding.

Degenerate polynucleotide As used herein a degenerate polynucleotide is a polynucleotide encoding a protein e.g. a modified sarcin molecule a fusion protein that includes a sequence that is degenerate as a result of redundancies in the genetic code. There are 20 natural amino acids most of which are specified by more than one codon. Therefore all degenerate nucleotide sequences are included as long as the amino acid sequence of the protein e.g. the modified sarcin molecule fusion protein encoded by the nucleotide sequence is unchanged.

Preferably the codons are well expressed in the selected host organism. Use of the degenerate versions of the encoding nucleic acids may optimize expression codon optimization in different expression systems. For example expression systems may prefer one codon for an amino acid while a protein expression system may prefer a different codon for the same amino acid in that position of the protein.

Domain A protein structure that retains its tertiary structure independently of the remainder of the protein. In some cases domains have discrete functional properties and can be added removed or transferred to another protein without a loss of function.

Effector molecule A molecule or the portion of a chimeric molecule that is intended to have a desired effect on a cell to which the molecule or chimeric molecule is targeted. An effector molecule is also known as an effector moiety EM therapeutic agent or diagnostic agent or similar terms. Examples of effector molecules include but are not limited to a detectable label biologically active protein drug cytotoxic molecule or toxin cytotoxic molecule .

Epitope An antigenic determinant. These are particular chemical groups or contiguous or non contiguous peptide sequences on a molecule that are antigenic that is that elicit a specific immune response. An antibody binds a particular antigenic epitope based on the three dimensional structure of the antibody and the matching or cognate epitope.

Expression The translation of a nucleic acid sequence into a protein. Proteins may be expressed and remain intracellular become a component of the cell surface membrane or be secreted into the extracellular matrix or medium.

Expression control sequences Nucleic acid sequences that regulate the expression of a heterologous nucleic acid sequence to which it is operatively linked. Expression control sequences are operatively linked to a nucleic acid sequence when the expression control sequences control and regulate the transcription and as appropriate translation of the nucleic acid sequence. Thus expression control sequences can include appropriate promoters enhancers transcription terminators a start codon e.g. ATG in front of a protein encoding gene splicing signal for introns maintenance of the correct reading frame of that gene to permit proper translation of mRNA and stop codons. The term control sequences is intended to include at a minimum components whose presence can influence expression and can also include additional components whose presence is advantageous for example leader sequences and fusion partner sequences. Expression control sequences can include a promoter.

A promoter is an array of nucleic acid control sequences that directs transcription of a nucleic acid. A promoter includes necessary nucleic acid sequences near the start site of transcription such as in the case of a polymerase II type promoter a TATA element. A promoter also optionally includes distal enhancer or repressor elements which can be located as much as several thousand base pairs from the start site of transcription. Both constitutive and inducible promoters are included see for example Bitter et al. 1987 Methods in Enzymology 153 516 544 .

Also included are those promoter elements which are sufficient to render promoter dependent gene expression controllable for cell type specific tissue specific or inducible by external signals or agents such elements may be located in the 5 or 3 regions of the gene. Both constitutive and inducible promoters are included see for example Bitter et al. 1987 Methods in Enzymology 153516 544 . For example when cloning in bacterial systems inducible promoters such as L of bacteriophage lambda plac ptrp ptac ptrp lac hybrid promoter and the like may be used. In some embodiments when cloning in mammalian cell systems promoters derived from the genome of mammalian cells such as the metallothionein promoter or from mammalian viruses such as the retrovirus long terminal repeat the adenovirus late promoter the Vaccinia virus 7.5 K promoter etc. can be used. Promoters produced by recombinant DNA or synthetic techniques may also be used to provide for transcription of the nucleic acid sequences.

A polynucleotide can be inserted into an expression vector that contains a promoter sequence that facilitates the efficient transcription of the inserted genetic sequence of the host. The expression vector typically contains an origin of replication a promoter as well as specific nucleic acid sequences that allow phenotypic selection of the transformed cells.

Expression system A system for expressing a gene product e.g. a protein. Expression systems may be cell based or cell free. Examples of expression systems include but are not limited to bacterial systems e.g. yeast systems e.g. an insect system a eukaryotic system viral systems e.g. baculovirus lambda retrovirus and the like.

Fc binding regions The FcRn binding region of the CH2 region is known to comprise the amino acid residues M252 I253 S254 T256 V259 V308 H310 Q311 Kabat numbering of IgG . These amino acid residues have been identified from studies of the full IgG molecule and or the Fc fragment to locate the residues of the CH2 domain that directly affect the interaction with FcRn. Three lines of investigation have been particularly illuminating a crystallographic studies of the complexes of FcRn bound to Fc b comparisons of the various human isotypes IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4 with each other and with IgGs from other species that exhibit differences in FcRn binding and serum half life correlating the variation in properties to specific amino acid residue differences and c mutation analysis particularly the isolation of mutations that show enhanced binding to FcRn yet retain the pH dependence of FcRn interaction. All three approaches highlight the same regions of CH2 region as crucial to the interaction with FcRn. The CH3 domain of IgG also contributes to the interaction with FcRn but the protonation deprotonation of H310 is thought to be primarily responsible and sufficient for the pH dependence of the interaction. In the present invention a ribotoxin fusion protein may optionally comprise a CH2 domain with a functional FcRn binding site or additional binding sites for enhanced half life of the fusion protein molecule.

Heterologous A heterologous polypeptide or polynucleotide refers to a polypeptide or polynucleotide derived from a different source or species.

Immune response A response of a cell of the immune system such as a B cell T cell macrophage or polymorphonucleocyte to a stimulus such as an antigen. An immune response can include any cell of the body involved in a host defense response for example an epithelial cell that secretes an interferon or a cytokine. An immune response includes but is not limited to an innate immune response or inflammation.

Immunoconjugate A covalent linkage of an effector molecule to a targeting molecule. The effector molecule can be a detectable label biologically active protein drug cytotoxic molecule or toxin cytotoxic molecule .

Specific non limiting examples of toxins include but are not limited to abrin ricin exotoxin PE such as PE35 PE37 PE38 and PE40 diphtheria toxin DT botulinum toxin small molecule toxins saporin restrictocin or gelonin sarcin ricin fragments thereof or modified toxins thereof. Other cytotoxic agents may include auristatin maytansinoids and cytolytic peptides. Other immunoconjugates may be composed of a binding protein e.g. a targeting molecule with a binding moiety linked to drug molecules ADC or antibody drug conjugates Ducry and Stump Bioconj Chem 21 5 13 2010 Erikson et al. Bioconj Chem 21 84 92 2010 . These toxins immunotoxins may directly or indirectly inhibit cell growth or kill cells. For example PE and DT are highly toxic compounds that typically bring about death through liver toxicity. PE and DT however can be modified into a form for use as an immunotoxin by removing the native targeting component of the toxin such as domain la of PE and the B chain of DT and replacing it with a different targeting moiety. In some embodiments a modified sarcin molecule or a fusion protein of the present invention is joined to an effector molecule EM . Antibody drug conjugates ADCs which are drugs e.g. cytotoxic agents conjugated to antibodies or fragments thereof deliver therapeutic molecules to their conjugate binding partners. The effector molecule may be a small molecule drug or biologically active protein such as erythropoietin. In some embodiments the effector molecule may be an immunoglobulin domain such as a VH or CH1 domain. In some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule or the fusion protein joined to an effector molecule is further joined to a lipid or other molecule to a protein or peptide to increase its half life. The linkage can be either by chemical or recombinant means. Chemical means refers to a reaction between the modified sarcin molecule or the fusion protein and the effector molecule such that there is a covalent bond formed between the two molecules to form one molecule. A peptide linker short peptide sequence can optionally be included between the modified sarcin molecule or the fusion protein and the effector molecule. Such a linker may be subject to proteolysis by an endogenous or exogenous linker to release the effector molecule at a desired site of action. Because immunoconjugates were originally prepared from two molecules with separate functionalities such as an antibody and an effector molecule they are also sometimes referred to as chimeric molecules. The term chimeric molecule as used herein therefore refers to a targeting moiety such as a ligand antibody or fragment or domain thereof conjugated coupled to an effector molecule.

The terms conjugating joining bonding or linking refer to making two polypeptides into one contiguous polypeptide molecule or to covalently attaching a radionucleotide or other molecule to a polypeptide. In the specific context the terms can in some embodiments refer to joining a ligand such as an antibody moiety to an effector molecule EM . The terms conjugating joining bonding or linking may also refer to attaching a peptide to a toxin e.g. sarcin modified sarcin molecule etc. .

Immunogen A compound composition or substance that is capable under appropriate conditions of stimulating an immune response such as the production of antibodies or a T cell response in an animal including compositions that are injected or absorbed into an animal.

The term Immunogenicity as used herein is the ability of an immunogen to elicit an immune response. The immune response can be both a humoral or cellular response. Preferably the immune response is a T cell response. Measuring the activation of an immune response can be done by several methods well known in the art.

The term reduced immunogenicity as used herein means that the modified ribotoxin or modified ribotoxin fusion protein is less immunogenic than the corresponding non modified ribotoxin or non modified ribotoxin fusion protein. Preferably the modified ribotoxin or modified ribotoxin fusion protein elicits a reduced T cell response as compared to the corresponding non modified ribotoxin or non modified ribotoxin fusion protein.

The term reduced T cell response as used herein means that the modified ribotoxin or modified ribotoxin fusion protein induces less T cell activation than the corresponding non modified ribotoxin or non modified ribotoxin fusion protein as measured by an in vitro T cell proliferation H thymidine incorporation assay using CD8 depleted human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In one embodiment the stimulation index SI of the modified ribotoxin or modified ribotoxin fusion protein is less than 2.0 and more preferably less than 1.5. The term stimulation index as used herein refers to the ability of the modified ribotoxin or modified ribotoxin fusion protein to activate T cells. The SI is conventionally presented as the mean cpm per test samples mean cpm per control samples without any test peptide .

Isolated An isolated biological component such as a nucleic acid molecule or protein that has been substantially separated or purified away from other biological components from which the component naturally occurs for example other biological components of a cell such as other chromosomal and extra chromosomal DNA and RNA and proteins including other antibodies. Nucleic acids and proteins that have been isolated include nucleic acids and proteins purified by standard purification methods. An isolated antibody is an antibody that has been substantially separated or purified away from other proteins or biological components such that its antigen specificity is maintained. The term also embraces nucleic acids and proteins prepared by recombinant expression in a host cell as well as chemically synthesized nucleic acids or proteins or fragments thereof.

Label A detectable compound or composition that is conjugated directly or indirectly to another molecule e.g. a modified sarcin molecule a targeting molecule a ribotoxin fusion protein etc. to facilitate detection of that molecule. Specific non limiting examples of labels include fluorescent tags enzymatic linkages and radioactive isotopes.

Ligand contact residue or Specificity Determining Residue SDR An amino acid residue within a molecule that participates in contacting a ligand or antigen. A ligand contact residue is also known as a specificity determining residue SDR .

Linkers covalent or very tight non covalent linkages chemical conjugation or direct gene fusions of various amino acid sequences especially those rich in Glycine Serine Proline Alanine or variants of naturally occurring linking amino acid sequences that connect immunoglobulin domains and or carbohydrates including but not limited to polyethylene glycols PEGs e.g. discrete PEGs dPEGs . Typical lengths may range from 2 up to 20 or more amino acids however the present invention is not limited to these lengths e.g. the linker may be a peptide between 1 and 20 amino acids . The optimal lengths may vary to match the spacing and orientation of the specific target antigen s minimizing entropy but allowing effective binding of multiple antigens.

Modification changes to a protein sequence structure etc. or changes to a nucleic acid sequence etc. As used herein the term modified or modification can include one or more mutations deletions substitutions physical alteration e.g. cross linking modification covalent bonding of a component post translational modification e.g. acetylation glycosylation the like or a combination thereof the like or a combination thereof. Modification e.g. mutation is not limited to random modification e.g. random mutagenesis but includes rational design as well.

Multimerizing Domain. Many domains within proteins are known that form a very tight non covalent dimer or multimer by associating with other protein domain s . Some of the smallest examples are the so called leucine zipper motifs which are compact domains comprising heptad repeats that can either self associate to form a homodimer e.g. GCN4 alternatively they may associate preferentially with another leucine zipper to form a heterodimer e.g. myc max dimers or more complex tetramers Chem Biol. 2008 Sep. 22 15 9 908 19. A heterospecific leucine zipper tetramer. Deng Y Liu J Zheng Q Li Q Kallenbach N R Lu M. . Closely related domains that have isoleucine in place of leucine in the heptad repeats form trimeric coiled coil assemblies e.g. HIV gp41 . Substitution of isoleucine for leucine in the heptad repeats of a dimer can alter the favoured structure to a trimer. Small domains have advantages for manufacture and maintain a small size for the whole protein molecule but larger domains can be useful for multimer formation. Any domains that form non covalent multimers could be employed. For example the CH3 domains of IgG form homodimers while CH1 and CL domains of IgG form heterodimers.

Nucleic acid A polymer composed of nucleotide units ribonucleotides deoxyribonucleotides related naturally occurring structural variants and synthetic non naturally occurring analogs thereof linked via phosphodiester bonds related naturally occurring structural variants and synthetic non naturally occurring analogs thereof. Thus the term includes nucleotide polymers in which the nucleotides and the linkages between them include non naturally occurring synthetic analogs such as for example and without limitation phosphorothioates phosphoramidates methyl phosphonates chiral methyl phosphonates 2 O methyl ribonucleotides peptide nucleic acids PNAs and the like. Such polynucleotides can be synthesized for example using an automated DNA synthesizer. The term oligonucleotide typically refers to short polynucleotides generally no greater than about 50 nucleotides. It will be understood that when a nucleotide sequence is represented by a DNA sequence i.e. A T G C this also includes a complementary RNA sequence i.e. A U G C in which U replaces T. 

Conventional notation is used herein to describe nucleotide sequences the left hand end of a single stranded nucleotide sequence is the 5 end the left hand direction of a double stranded nucleotide sequence is referred to as the 5 direction. The direction of 5 to 3 addition of nucleotides to nascent RNA transcripts is referred to as the transcription direction. The DNA strand having the same sequence as an mRNA is referred to as the coding strand sequences on the DNA strand having the same sequence as an mRNA transcribed from that DNA and which are located 5 to the 5 end of the RNA transcript are referred to as upstream sequences sequences on the DNA strand having the same sequence as the RNA and which are 3 to the 3 end of the coding RNA transcript are referred to as downstream sequences. 

cDNA refers to a DNA that is complementary or identical to an mRNA in either single stranded or double stranded form. Encoding refers to the inherent property of specific sequences of nucleotides in a polynucleotide such as a gene a cDNA or an mRNA to serve as templates for synthesis of other polymers and macromolecules in biological processes having either a defined sequence of nucleotides i.e. rRNA tRNA and mRNA or a defined sequence of amino acids and the biological properties resulting therefrom. Thus a gene encodes a protein if transcription and translation of mRNA produced by that gene produces the protein in a cell or other biological system. Both the coding strand the nucleotide sequence of which is identical to the mRNA sequence and is usually provided in sequence listings and non coding strand used as the template for transcription of a gene or cDNA can be referred to as encoding the protein or other product of that gene or cDNA. Unless otherwise specified a nucleotide sequence encoding an amino acid sequence includes all nucleotide sequences that are degenerate versions of each other and that encode the same amino acid sequence. Nucleotide sequences that encode proteins and RNA may include introns.

Recombinant nucleic acid refers to a nucleic acid having nucleotide sequences that are not naturally joined together and can be made by artificially combining two otherwise separated segments of sequence. This artificial combination is often accomplished by chemical synthesis or more commonly by the artificial manipulation of isolated segments of nucleic acids for example by genetic engineering techniques. Recombinant nucleic acids include nucleic acid vectors comprising an amplified or assembled nucleic acid which can be used to transform or transfect a suitable host cell. A host cell that comprises the recombinant nucleic acid is referred to as a recombinant host cell. The gene is then expressed in the recombinant host cell to produce a recombinant polypeptide. A recombinant nucleic acid can also serve a non coding function for example promoter origin of replication ribosome binding site and the like .

Operably linked A first nucleic acid sequence is operably linked with a second nucleic acid sequence when the first nucleic acid sequence is placed in a functional relationship with the second nucleic acid sequence. For instance a promoter is operably linked to a coding sequence if the promoter affects the transcription or expression of the coding sequence. Generally operably linked DNA sequences are contiguous and where necessary to join two protein coding regions in the same reading frame.

Pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers vehicles useful in this disclosure may be conventional but are not limited to conventional vehicles. For example E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 15th Edition 1975 and D. B. Troy ed. Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Lippincott Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. and Philadelphia Pa. 21Edition 2006 describe compositions and formulations suitable for pharmaceutical delivery of one or more therapeutic compounds or molecules such as one or more antibodies and additional pharmaceutical agents.

In general the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of administration being employed. For instance parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water physiological saline balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like as a vehicle. As a non limiting example the formulation for injectable trastuzumab includes L histidine HCl L histidine trehalose dihydrate and polysorbate 20 as a dry powder in a glass vial that is reconstituted with sterile water prior to injection. Other formulations of antibodies and proteins for parenteral or subcutaneous use are well known in the art. For solid compositions for example powder pill tablet or capsule forms conventional non toxic solid carriers can include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch or magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically neutral carriers pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives and pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate.

Polypeptide A polymer in which the monomers are amino acid residues that are joined together through amide bonds. When the amino acids are amino acids either the L optical isomer or the D optical isomer can be used The terms polypeptide or protein as used herein are intended to encompass any amino acid sequence and include modified sequences such as glycoproteins. The term polypeptide may cover naturally occurring proteins depending on the context as well as those that are recombinantly or synthetically produced. The term residue or amino acid residue includes reference to an amino acid that is incorporated into a protein polypeptide or peptide.

 Conservative amino acid substitutions are those substitutions that do not substantially affect or decrease an activity or antigenicity of a polypeptide. For example a polypeptide can include at most about 1 at most about 2 at most about 5 at most about 10 or at most about 15 conservative substitutions and specifically bind an antibody that binds the original polypeptide. The term conservative variation also includes the use of a substituted amino acid in place of an unsubstituted parent amino acid provided that antibodies raised antibodies raised to the substituted polypeptide also immunoreact with the unsubstituted polypeptide. Examples of conservative substitutions include i Ala Ser ii Arg Lys iii Asn Gin or His iv Asp Glu v Cys Ser vi Gln Asn vii Glu Asp viii His Asn or Gln ix Ile Leu or Val x Leu Ile or Val xi Lys Arg Gln or Glu xii Met Leu or Ile xiii Phe Met Leu or Tyr xiv Ser Thr xv Thr Ser xvi Trp Tyr xvii Tyr Trp or Phe xviii Val Ile or Leu.

Conservative substitutions generally maintain a the structure of the polypeptide backbone in the area of the substitution for example as a sheet or helical conformation b the charge or hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site and or c the bulk of the side chain. The substitutions which in general are expected to produce the greatest changes in protein properties will be non conservative for instance changes in which a a hydrophilic residue for example serine or threonine is substituted for or by a hydrophobic residue for example leucine isoleucine phenylalanine valine or alanine b a cysteine or proline is substituted for or by any other residue c a residue having an electropositive side chain for example lysine arginine or histidine is substituted for or by an electronegative residue for example glutamate or aspartate or d a residue having a bulky side chain for example phenylalanine is substituted for or by one not having a side chain for example glycine.

Preventing treating managing or ameliorating a disease Preventing a disease refers to inhibiting the full development of a disease. Treating refers to a therapeutic intervention that ameliorates a sign or symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop. Managing refers to a therapeutic intervention that does not allow the signs or symptoms of a disease to worsen. Ameliorating refers to the reduction in the number or severity of signs or symptoms of a disease.

Probes and primers A probe comprises an isolated nucleic acid attached to a detectable label or reporter molecule. Primers are short nucleic acids and can be DNA oligonucleotides 15 nucleotides or more in length for example. Primers may be annealed to a complementary target DNA strand by nucleic acid hybridization to form a hybrid between the primer and the target DNA strand and then extended along the target DNA strand by a DNA polymerase enzyme. Primer pairs can be used for amplification of a nucleic acid sequence for example by the polymerase chain reaction PCR or other nucleic acid amplification methods known in the art. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the specificity of a particular probe or primer increases with its length. Thus for example a primer comprising 20 consecutive nucleotides will anneal to a target with a higher specificity than a corresponding primer of only 15 nucleotides. Thus in order to obtain greater specificity probes and primers may be selected that comprise 20 25 30 35 40 50 or more consecutive nucleotides.

Purified The term purified does not require absolute purity rather it is intended as a relative term. Thus for example a purified molecule is one that is isolated in whole or in part from naturally associated proteins and other contaminants in which the molecule is purified to a measurable degree relative to its naturally occurring state for example relative to its purity within a cell extract or biological fluid.

The term purified includes such desired products as analogs or mimetics or other biologically active compounds wherein additional compounds or moieties are bound to the molecule in order to allow for the attachment of other compounds and or provide for formulations useful in therapeutic treatment or diagnostic procedures.

Generally substantially purified molecules include more than 80 of all macromolecular species present in a preparation prior to admixture or formulation of the respective compound with additional ingredients in a complete pharmaceutical formulation for therapeutic administration. Additional ingredients can include a pharmaceutical carrier excipient buffer absorption enhancing agent stabilizer preservative adjuvant or other like co ingredients. More typically the molecule is purified to represent greater than 90 often greater than 95 of all macromolecular species present in a purified preparation prior to admixture with other formulation ingredients. In other cases the purified preparation may be essentially homogeneous wherein other macromolecular species are less than 1 .

Recombinant protein For a recombinant nucleic acid see Recombinant Nucleic Acid above. A recombinant protein or polypeptide is one that has a sequence that is not naturally occurring or has a sequence that is made by an artificial combination of two otherwise separated segments of sequence. This artificial combination is often accomplished by chemical synthesis or more commonly by the artificial manipulation of isolated segments of nucleic acids for example by genetic engineering techniques. Recombinant proteins may be made in cells transduced transfected or transformed with genetic elements to direct the synthesis of the heterologous protein. They may also be made in cell free systems. Host cells that are particularly useful include mammalian cells such as CHO and HEK 293 insect cells yeast such as or or bacterial cells such as or

Sample A portion piece or segment that is representative of a whole. This term encompasses any material including for instance samples obtained from a subject.

A biological sample is a sample obtained from a subject including but not limited to cells tissues and bodily fluids. Bodily fluids include for example saliva sputum spinal fluid urine blood and derivatives and fractions of blood including serum and lymphocytes such as B cells T cells and subfractions thereof . Tissues include those from biopsies autopsies and pathology specimens as well as biopsied or surgically removed tissue including tissues that are for example unfixed frozen fixed in formalin and or embedded in paraffin.

In some embodiments a biological sample is obtained from a subject such as blood or serum. A biological sample is typically obtained from a mammal such as a rat mouse cow dog guinea pig rabbit or primate. In some embodiments the primate is macaque chimpanzee or a human.

Scaffold A platform molecule often used for introduction of other domains loops mutations and the like. As an example a CH2 or CH3 domain scaffold is a CH2 or CH3 domain that can be used to introduce donor loops and or mutations such as into the loop regions in order to confer antigen binding to the CH2 or CH3 domain. In some embodiments a scaffold is altered to exhibit increased stability compared with the native molecule. For example a scaffold may be mutated to introduce pairs of cysteine residues to allow formation of one or more non native disulfide bonds. Scaffolds are not limited to these definitions. In another example a scaffold can be the fibronectin type III domain Centryns Affibodies DARPINS cyclic peptides nanoantibodies VHH domains from llamas shark domains etc.

Sequence identity The similarity between nucleotide or amino acid sequences is expressed in terms of the similarity between the sequences otherwise referred to as sequence identity. Sequence identity is frequently measured in terms of percentage identity or similarity or homology the higher the percentage the more similar the two sequences are Homologs or variants will possess a relatively high degree of sequence identity overall or in certain regions when aligned using standard methods.

Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Various programs and alignment algorithms are described in Smith and Waterman Adv. Appl. Math. 2 482 1981 Needleman and Wunsch Journal of Molecular Biol. 48 443 1970 Pearson and Lipman Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 2444 1988 Higgins and Sharp Gene 73 237 244 1988 Higgins and Sharp CABIOS 5 151 153 1989 Corpet et al. Nucleic Acids Research 16 10881 10890 1988 and Pearson and Lipman Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 2444 1988. Altschul et al. Nature Genetics 6 119 129 1994.

The NCBI Basic Local Alignment Search Tool BLAST Altschul et al. Journal of Molecular Biology 215 403 410 1990. is available from several sources including the National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI Bethesda Md. and on the Internet for use in connection with the sequence analysis programs blastp blastn blastx tblastn and tblastx.

Specific binding agent An agent that binds substantially only to a defined target. Thus an antigen specific binding agent is an agent that binds substantially to an antigenic polypeptide or antigenic fragment thereof. In one embodiment the specific binding agent is a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody or a peptide or a scaffold molecule that specifically binds the antigenic polypeptide or antigenic fragment thereof.

The term specifically binds refers to the preferential association of a binding agent or targeting moiety such as hormones peptides peptide fragments domains cytokines other ligands and receptors scaffolds etc. in whole or part with target e.g. a cell or tissue bearing that target of that binding agent and not to non targets e.g. cells or tissues lacking a detectable amount of that target . It is of course recognized that a certain degree of non specific interaction may occur between a molecule and a non target cell or tissue. Nevertheless specific binding may be distinguished as mediated through specific recognition of the antigen. A variety of immunoassay formats are appropriate for selecting molecules specifically reactive with a particular protein. For example solid phase ELISA immunoassays are routinely used.

Subject Living multi cellular organisms including vertebrate organisms a category that includes both human and non human mammals.

Therapeutic agents include such compounds as nucleic acids proteins peptides amino acids or derivatives glycoproteins radioisotopes lipids carbohydrates small molecules recombinant viruses or the like. Nucleic acid therapeutic and diagnostic moieties include antisense nucleic acids derivatized oligonucleotides for covalent cross linking with single or duplex DNA and triplex forming oligonucleotides. Alternatively the molecule linked to a targeting moiety may be an encapsulation system such as a liposome or micelle that contains a therapeutic composition such as a drug a nucleic acid such as an antisense nucleic acid or another therapeutic moiety that can be shielded from direct exposure to the circulatory system. Means of preparing liposomes attached to antibodies are well known to those of skill in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 957 735 and Connor et al. 1985 Pharm. Ther. 28 341 365. Diagnostic agents or moieties include radioisotopes and other detectable labels. Detectable labels useful for such purposes are also well known in the art and include radioactive isotopes such as Tc In P I and I fluorophores chemiluminescent agents and enzymes.

Therapeutically effective amount A quantity of a specified agent sufficient to achieve a desired effect in a subject being treated with that agent. Such agents include the modified ribotoxin molecules e.g. modified sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and fusion proteins described herein. For example this may be the amount of a fusion protein comprising a modified sarcin molecule useful in preventing treating or ameliorating a disease or condition such as cancer. Ideally a therapeutically effective amount of a modified ribotoxin molecule e.g. modified sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or fusion protein is an amount sufficient to prevent treat or ameliorate the condition or disease in a subject without causing a substantial cytotoxic effect in the subject. The therapeutically effective amount of an agent useful for preventing ameliorating and or treating a subject will be dependent on the subject being treated the type and severity of the affliction and the manner of administration of the therapeutic composition.

Transduced A transduced cell is a cell into which has been introduced a nucleic acid molecule by molecular biology techniques. As used herein the term transduction encompasses all techniques by which a nucleic acid molecule might be introduced into such a cell including transfection with viral vectors transformation with plasmid vectors and introduction of naked DNA by electroporation lipofection and particle gun acceleration. Such cells are sometimes called transformed cells.

Vector A nucleic acid molecule as introduced into a host cell thereby producing a transformed host cell. A vector may include nucleic acid sequences that permit it to replicate in a host cell such as an origin of replication. A vector may also include one or more selectable marker genes and other genetic elements known in the art.

The present disclosure provides modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin molecules wherein the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin molecules are less or non immunogenic compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin e.g. wild type sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin . The wild type ribotoxin e.g. wild type sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is modified to create the modified ribotoxin molecule where the modification of the wild type ribotoxin molecule reduces its immunogenicity e.g. reduces or eliminates the number of T cell epitopes as described below . As used herein the term modified can include one or more mutations deletions additions substitutions truncations physical alteration e.g. cross linking modification covalent bonding of a component post translational modification e.g. acetylation glycosylation and the like.

When an antigen presenting cell of the immune system takes up a protein the protein is proteolytically digested processed into peptides some of which can bind to MHC class II molecules and be presented on the surface of antigen presenting cells to T cells. The binding of peptides to MHC class II is believed to be due to interactions between amino acid side chains of the peptides and specific binding pockets within the MHC groove e.g. pocket positions p1 p4 p6 p7 and p9 within the open ended binding grooves of 34 human MHC class II alleles. The amino acids of the peptide that interact with the p1 p4 p6 p7 and p9 pocket positions of the class II MHC molecule are called anchor residues e.g. P1 P4 P6 P7 and P9 class II MHC anchor residues .

In situations where such presented peptides activate CD4 helper T cells these peptides are defined as CD4 T cell epitopes which arise where the complex of peptide and MHC class II is bound by a T cell receptor and in conjunction with co stimulatory signals result in T cell activation. In such cases these peptides bind within a groove within the MHC class II molecule and allotypic variations in MHC class II can influence the binding of such peptides and in some cases can restrict binding to a small number of allotypes allotype restricted . In other cases peptides can bind broadly to different MHC allotypes such non restricted binding is referred to as promiscuous or degenerate binding.

Table 1 shows the sequence corresponding to wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 . The modified sarcin molecules of the present invention are derived from a parent sarcin for example wild type sarcin or fragments of wild type sarcin.

U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 783 589 filed 15 Mar. 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety describes in silica analysis of the wild type sarcin protein to identify potential T cell epitopes. Briefly all overlapping 9 mer peptides from the wild type sarcin sequence were threaded through a database of 34 human MHC class II DR allotypes and individually scored based on their fit and interactions with each of the MHC class II molecules.

The results of this work suggest that wild type sarcin contains at least three potential T cell epitopes comprising a single promiscuous high affinity MHC binding peptide with p1 anchor at residue 24 L leucine and two promiscuous moderate affinity MHC binding peptides with p1 anchors at residues 122 V valine and 134 I isoleucine see Table 2 . Other potential low to very low immunogenic T cell epitopes were also identified.

The wild type sarcin was further analyzed by the EpiScreen Cambridge UK immunogenicity assay to identify the presence and potency of T cell epitopes within the wild type sarcin. Briefly 46 15 mer peptides overlapping by 12 amino acids and spanning the wild type sarcin were tested for proliferation against 50 healthy PBMC donors selected to best represent the spread of H LA DR alleles in the population. From this analysis two T cell epitopes were identified within the wild type sarcin as shown in Table 3.

Sarcin Epitope 1 corresponds to amino acid residues 10 18 of the wild type sarcin within the N terminal 22 amino acid region involved in membrane and interaction and binding of sarcin to the ribosome. Sarcin Epitope 1 can optionally include the immediately adjacent N terminal amino acid P 1 anchor residue and thus comprise the amino acid sequence DQKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 6 corresponding to amino acids 9 18 of the wild type sarcin.

The Sarcin Epitope 1 can be modified to reduce or eliminate human MHC class II binding. In one embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 1 has one or more mutations in one or more of the P 1 P1 P4 P6 P7 or P9 MHC class II anchor residues of Sarcin Epitope 1 where the P 1 anchor residue corresponds to the amino acid D directly N terminal to the Sarcin Epitope 1 in the wild type sarcin. In another embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 1 has one or more of the following substitutions P 1 at residue D9 D9T or D9A P1 anchor at residue Q10 Q10K Q10R or Q10A P4 anchor at residue P13 P131 P6 anchor at residue T15 T15G T15Q or T15H P7 anchor residue at N16 N16R N16K N16A and or P9 anchor at residue Y18 Y18H Y1 8K or Y18R. Put another way the modified Sarcin Epitope 1 has the amino acid sequence of XXKNXKXXKX wherein Xis D A or T Xis Q K R or A Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A and Xis Y H K or R SEQ ID NO 7 .

In addition to modifying one or more anchor residues it is also possible to modify one or more non anchor residues in the Sarcin Epitope 1 provided the modified epitope retains reduced MHC class II binding as compared to wild type sarcin. An alignment of Sarcin Epitope 1 with the corresponding epitope in other related fungal ribotoxins provides guidance as to possible non anchor residue substitutions. One of ordinary skill in the art could readily identify other non anchor residue substitutions using conventional methods and techniques.

In another embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 1 has the amino acid sequence of XXNXKXXKX wherein Xis Q K R or A Xis K or L Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A and Xis Y H K R or W SEQ ID NO 8 . In yet another embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 1 has the amino acid sequence of XXXNXKXXKX wherein Xis D A or T Xis Q K R or A Xis K or L Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A and Xis Y H K R or W SEQ ID NO 9 .

Sarcin Epitope 2 corresponds to amino acid residues 134 142 of the wild type sarcin and thus spans H137 which is part of the catalytic triad. The Sarcin Epitope 2 can be modified to reduce or eliminate human MHC class II binding. In one embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 2 has one or more mutations in one or more of the P1 P6 P7 or P9 MHC class II anchor residues of Sarcin Epitope 2. In another embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 2 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue I134 I134A P6 anchor at residue K139 K139D K139E K139G K139Q K139H or K139N P7 anchor residue at E140 E140D and or P9 anchor at residue Q142 Q142D Q142N Q142T Q142E Q142R or Q142G. Put another way the modified Sarcin Epitope 2 has the amino acid sequence of XIAHTXXNIX wherein Xis I or A Xis K D E G Q H or N Xis E or D and Xis Q D N T E R or G SEQ ID NO 10 .

In addition to modifying one or more anchor residues it is also possible to modify one or more non anchor residues in the Sarcin Epitope 2 provided the modified epitope retains reduced MHC class II binding as compared to wild type sarcin. An alignment of Sarcin Epitope 2 with the corresponding epitope in other related fungal ribotoxins provides guidance as to possible non anchor residue substitutions. One of ordinary skill in the art could readily identify other non anchor residue substitutions using conventional methods and techniques.

In another embodiment the modified Sarcin Epitope 2 has the amino acid sequence of XXAHXXXNX wherein Xis I or A Xis I or V Xis T or Q Xis K D E G Q H or N Xis E or D and Xis Q D N T E R or G SEQ ID NO 11 .

Without intending to be bound by any theory or mechanism it is believed that the mutations that reduce or eliminate human MHC class II binding as described herein may help reduce or eliminate the immunogenicity of wild type sarcin in humans e.g. via reducing the number and or immunogenicity of T cell epitopes .

In some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises at least one fewer T cell epitope as compared to wild type sarcin or at least two fewer T cell epitopes at least three fewer T cell epitopes etc. . For example if the wild type sarcin comprises two T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type sarcin comprises three T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type sarcin comprises ten T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises nine T cell epitopes eight T cell epitopes seven T cell epitopes six T cell epitopes five T cell epitopes four T cell epitopes three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type sarcin comprises eight T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises seven T cell epitopes six T cell epitopes five T cell epitopes four T cell epitopes three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type sarcin comprises six T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises five T cell epitopes four T cell epitopes three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type sarcin comprises four T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes.

More specifically the modified sarcin molecule may comprise at least one mutation compared with a parent sarcin the parent sarcin being at least a portion of wild type sarcin e.g. wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. . In one embodiment the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of a T cell epitope e.g. resulting in the epitope having reduced ability to bind to MHC class II molecules or having no ability to bind MHC class II molecules or resulting in a modified sarcin molecule that elicits a reduced T cell response as compared to the corresponding wild type sarcin. For example the at least one mutation may be within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 1 SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 6 and or within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 2 SEQ ID NO 4 .

In some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises at least one mutation compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. wherein the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids D9 Q10 P13 T15 N16 or Y18 of wild type sarcin .

For example in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises one or more of the following mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. D9T D9A Q10K Q10R Q10A P13I T15G T15Q T15H N16R N16K N16A Y18H Y18K or Y18R.

In some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises at least one mutation compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. wherein the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids I134 K139 E140 or Q142.

For example in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises one or more of the following mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. I134A K139D K139E K139G K1390 K139H K139N E140D Q142D 0142N Q142T Q142E Q142R or Q142G.

In other embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises a first and a second mutation compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. wherein the first mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids D9 Q10 P13 T15 N16 or Y18 of wild type sarcin and wherein the second mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids I134 K139 E140 or Q142 of wild type sarcin . For example in certain embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises one or more of the following mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. a first mutation at Q10 and a second mutation at K139 or Q142 a first mutation at N16 and a second mutation at K139 or Q142 or a first mutation at Y18 and a second mutation at K139 or Q142.

For example in some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises a first mutation compared with a wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 wherein the first mutation is selected from D9T D9A Q10K Q10R Q10A P13I T15G T15Q T15H N16R N16K N16A Y18H Y18K or Y18R and a second mutation compared with a wild type sarcin wherein the second mutation is selected from I134A K139D K139E K139G K139Q K139H K139N E140D Q142D Q142N Q142T Q142E Q142R or Q142G.

In other embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises one or more of the following mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. a first mutation comprising Q10K and a second mutation comprising K139D K139E Q142N or Q142T a first mutation comprising N16R and a second mutation comprising K139D K139E Q142N or Q142T a first mutation comprising N16K and a second mutation comprising K139D K139E Q142N or Q142T a first mutation comprising Y18K and a second mutation comprising K139D K139E Q142N or Q142T or a first mutation comprising Y18R and a second mutation comprising K139D K139E Q142N or Q142T.

In other embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises three mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. . For example the modified sarcin molecule may comprise a first and second mutation within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 1 SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 6 and a third mutation within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 2 SEQ ID NO 4 . Alternatively the modified sarcin molecule may comprise a first mutation within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 1 SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 6 and a second and third mutation within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 2 SEQ ID NO 4 .

In certain embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises one or more of the following mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. a first mutation at amino acid Q10 or N16 a second mutation at K139 and a third mutation at Q142. In one embodiment the first mutation at Q10 or N16 is selected from Q10K Q10R or Q10A or N16R N16K or N16A preferably Q10K or N16R . In another embodiment the second mutation at K139 is selected from K139D K139E K139G K139Q K139H or K139N preferably K1390 or K139E . In another embodiment the third mutation at Q142 is selected from Q142D Q142N Q142T Q142E Q142R or Q142G preferably Q142T .

In yet another embodiment the first mutation is Q10K or N16R the second mutation is K139E or K139D and the third mutation is Q142T. In another embodiment the first mutation is Q10K the second mutation is K139E and the third mutation is Q142T. In another embodiment the first mutation is Q10K the second mutation is K139D and the third mutation is Q142T. In another embodiment the first mutation is N16R the second mutation is K139E and the third mutation is Q142T. In another embodiment the first mutation is N16R the second mutation is K139D and the third mutation is Q142T.

In other embodiments modified sarcin molecule comprises four mutations mutations compared with a parent sarcin e.g. a wild type sarcin a fragment of wild type sarcin etc. . For example the modified sarcin molecule may comprise two mutations within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 1 SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 6 and two mutations within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 2 SEQ ID NO 4 one mutation within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 1 SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 6 and three mutations within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 2 SEQ ID NO 4 or three mutations within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 1 SEQ ID NO 5 or SEQ ID NO 6 and one mutation within Sarcin T Cell Epitope 2 SEQ ID NO 4 .

In yet another embodiment the modified sarcin polypeptide comprises at least one mutation as compared to a wild type sarcin polypeptide SEQ ID NO 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of the modified sarcin polypeptide comprises 

RVIYTYPNKV FCGXIAHTXXNXGELKLCSH wherein Xthrough Xcan be any amino acid SEQ ID NO 12 provided the modified sarcin polypeptide is not identical to the wild type sarcin polypeptide SEQ ID NO 1 

In another embodiment Xis D A or T Xis Q K R or A Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A Xis Y H K or R Xis I or A Xis K D E G Q H or N Xis E or D and Xis Q D N T E R or G SEQ ID NO 13 .

Table 4 describes non limiting examples of modified sarcin molecules. The modified sarcin molecules in Table 4 comprise one or more of the amino acid substitutions described above.

Modification of the wild type sarcin may include an amino acid substitution as described above. In some embodiments the amino acid substitution is a 1 amino acid substitution e.g. Q10A a 2 amino acid substitution e.g. Q10A and Q142G a 3 amino acid substitution e.g. Q10A N16A Q142G a 4 amino acid substitution a 5 amino acid substitution 6 amino acid substitution a 7 amino acid substitution an 8 amino acid substitution a nine amino acid substitution a 10 amino acid substitution or a more than 10 amino acid substitution.

Modification of the wild type sarcin is not limited to an amino acid substitution. For example the modification may include an amino acid deletion or an amino acid addition. In some embodiments the amino acid deletion is a 1 amino acid deletion a 2 amino acid deletion a 3 amino acid deletion a 4 amino acid deletion a 5 amino acid deletion 6 amino acid deletion a 7 amino acid deletion an 8 amino acid deletion a nine amino acid deletion a 10 amino acid deletion or a more than 10 amino acid deletion. In some embodiments the amino acid addition is a 1 amino acid addition a 2 amino acid addition a 3 amino acid addition a 4 amino acid addition a 5 amino acid addition 6 amino acid addition a 7 amino acid addition an 8 amino acid addition a nine amino acid addition a 10 amino acid addition or a more than 10 amino acid addition. Deletions and or additions may optionally correspond to deletions in regions of the molecule other than T cell epitope regions.

Wild type sarcin comprises two disulfide bonds between amino acids Cys 6 and Cys 148 and between amino acids Cys 76 and Cys 132 . In some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule comprises an additional disulfide bond. In some embodiments the additional disulfide bond can be added in sites adjacent to the wild type disulfide bond sites. In some embodiments additional disulfide bonds are incorporated into the molecule by adding amino acids. In some embodiments disulfide bonds are incorporated into the molecule by substituting amino acids. In some embodiments the modified sarcin molecule has no disulfide bonds.

Modification of the wild type sarcin may include an amino acid substitution as described above and an additional modification for example a deletion an addition a truncation e.g. N terminal truncation C terminal truncation or a combination thereof.

As discussed above in addition to sarcin there are other related ribotoxin family members produced by other species including clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin. Table 5 shows the sequences corresponding to wild type clavin SEQ ID NO 24 gigantin SEQ ID NO 25 mitogillin SEQ ID NO 26 and restrictocin SEQ ID NO 45 . The modified clam gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin molecules of the present invention are derived from a parent clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin respectively for example wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin or fragments of wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin.

An example of a rapid method for analysis of the immunogenicity of a protein molecule involves the prediction of peptide binding to human MHC class II molecules. While only a proportion of peptides that bind to MHC class II will be actual T cell epitopes the analysis of peptide binding to MHC class II can provide a rapid analysis of the potential for immunogenicity of a protein sequence because CD4 T cell epitopes bind MHC class II. Furthermore promiscuous high affinity MHC class II binding peptides have been shown to correlate with the presence of T cell epitopes Hill et al. 2003 Arthritis Res Ther 1 R40 R48 and thus analysis of such promiscuous binding peptides provides a basis for analysis of potential T cell epitopes.

Computer methods have been developed to model such interactions such as iTope Perry et al. 2008 Drugs in R D 9 6 385 396 which is based on Peptide Threading software WO 02 069232 WO 98 59244 . In iTope overlapping 9 mers from a sequence of interest are individually tested for interaction with 34 different human MHC class II DR allotypes and individually scored based on their fit and interactions with each of the MHC class II molecules. For each MHC allotype the combined strength of interactions can provide a prediction of the strength of physical binding of each 9mer peptide and the designation of high affinity binding peptides. By collective analysis of the binding of a 9mer to all 34 MHC class II allotypes the extent of promiscuous or restricted binding can be determined. This allows the identification of promiscuous high affinity MHC class II binding peptides that are thus considered to have high potential for having T cell epitope activities.

The wild type amino acid sequences of clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin were analyzed for non self human MHC class II binders. All overlapping 9mers from the wild type ribotoxin sequences were threaded through a database of 34 human MHC class II DR allotypes and individually scored based on their fit and interactions with each of the MHC class II molecules. The predicted binding to MHC class II where the position of the first residue of a 9mer peptide binding to MHC class II allotype p1 anchor has a binding score of 0.55 0.6 or a binding score was 0.6. Regions containing potentially immunogenic peptides are indicated as Promiscuous High and Promiscuous Moderate. Promiscuous High MHC binding peptides are defined as both 50 of Total Alleles Binding and High Affinity alleles binding to MHC class II. Promiscuous Moderate MHC binding peptides are defined as 50 of Total Alleles Binding to MHC class II but 

The results of this work suggest that wild type clavin contains several potential T cell epitopes including a promiscuous high affinity MHC binding peptide with p1 anchor at residue 134 I isoleucine and three promiscuous moderate affinity MHC binding peptides with p1 anchors at residues 63 L leucine 122 V valine and 130 V valine see Table 6 . Potential low to very low immunogenic T cell epitopes were also identified.

In addition the EpiScreen Cambridge UK immunogenicity analysis of sarcin suggests that clavin contains the following T cell epitope having a p1 anchor residue of Q10 QKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 5 .

The in silico work also suggests that wild type gigantin contains several potential T cell epitopes including two promiscuous high affinity MHC binding peptides with p1 anchors at residue at residues 63 L leucine and 122 V valine see Table 7 . Potential low to very low immunogenic T cell epitopes were also identified.

In addition the EpiScreen Cambridge UK immunogenicity analysis of sarcin suggests that gigantin contains the following two T cell epitopes having p1 anchor residues of Q10 and I134 respectively QKNIKTNKY SEQ ID NO 31 and IIAHTRENQ SEQ 1D NO 32 .

The in silico work also suggests that wild type mitogillin and restrictocin which are variants of the same protein isolated from contain several potential T cell epitopes including three promiscuous high affinity MHC binding peptides with p1 anchors at residue at residues 62 I Isoleucine 129 V valine and 133 I isoleucine and a single promiscuous moderate affinity MHC binding peptide with a p1 anchor at residue 121 V valine see Table 8 . Potential low to very low immunogenic T cell epitopes were also identified.

In addition the EpiScreen Cambridge UK immunogenicity analysis of sarcin suggests that mitogillin and restrictocin contain the following T cell epitope having a p1 anchor residue of Q10 QLNPKTNKIN SEQ ID NO 36 .

The above identified clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin T cell epitopes can be modified to reduce or eliminate human MHC class II binding. In one embodiment the modified clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin T cell epitope has one or more mutations in one or more of the P1 P4 P6 P7 or P9 MHC class II anchor residues.

In one embodiment the modified clavin or gigantin epitope with p1 anchor Q10 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue Q10 Q10K Q10R or Q10A P4 anchor at residue P13 for clavin only P13I P6 anchor at residue T15 T15G T15Q or T15H P7 anchor residue at N16 N16R N16K or N16A and or P9 anchor at residue Y18 Y18H Y18K or Y18R.

In another embodiment the modified mitogillin or restrictocin epitope with p1 anchor Q9 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue Q9 Q9K Q9R or Q9A P4 anchor at residue P12 P12I P6 anchor at residue T14 T14G T14Q or T14H P7 anchor residue at N15 N15R N15K or N15A and or P9 anchor at residue Y17 Y17H Y17K or Y17R.

In another embodiment the modified clavin epitope with p1 anchor L63 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue L63 L63A or L63D P4 anchor at residue R66 R66G R66Q R66H R66N R660 R66E P7 anchor residue at 169 169A or 169D and or P9 anchor at residue W71 W71G W71A W71D or W71E.

In another embodiment the modified gigantin epitope with p1 anchor L63 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue L63 L63A or L63D P4 anchor at residue R66 R66G R66Q R66H R66N R66D R66E P7 anchor residue at I69 I69A or I69D and or P9 anchor at residue F71 F71G F71A F71D or F71E.

In another embodiment the modified mitogillin or restrictocin epitope with p1 anchor I62 or has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue I62 I62A or I62D P4 anchor at residue R65 R65G R65Q R65H R65N R65D R65E P7 anchor residue at I68 I68A or I68D and or P9 anchor at residue F70 F70G F70A F70D or F70E.

In another embodiment the modified clavin or gigantin epitope with p1 anchor V122 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue V122 V122A V122K or V122R P4 anchor at residue T125 T125G T125Q or T125H P6 anchor at residue P127 P127I P7 anchor residue at N128 N128R N128K or N128A and or P9 anchor at residue V130 V130A V130K or V130R.

In another embodiment the modified mitogillin or restrictocin epitope with p1 anchor V121 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue V121 V121A V121K or V121R P4 anchor at residue T124 T124G T124Q or T124H P6 anchor at residue P126 P126I P7 anchor residue at N127 N127R N127K or N127A and or P9 anchor at residue V129 V129A V129K or V129R.

In another embodiment the modified clavin epitope with p1 anchor V130 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue V130 V130A V130K or V130R P4 anchor at residue G133 G133A G133D G133E or G133K P7 anchor residue at A136 A136R A136K or A136D and or P9 anchor at residue T138 T138G or T138H.

In another embodiment the modified mitogillin or restrictocin epitope with p1 anchor V129 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue V129 V129A V129K or V129R P4 anchor at residue G132 G132A G132D G132E or G132K P7 anchor residue at A135 A135R A135K or A135D and or P9 anchor at residue Q137 Q137G or Q137H.

In another embodiment the modified clavin epitope with p1 anchor I134 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue I134 I134A P6 anchor at residue R139 R139D R139E R139G R139Q R139H or FR139N P7 anchor residue at E140 E1400 and or P9 anchor at residue Q142 Q142D Q142N1 Q142T Q142E Q142R or Q142G.

In another embodiment the modified mitogillin or restrictocin epitope with p1 anchor I133 has one or more of the following substitutions P1 anchor at residue I133 I133A P6 anchor at residue R138 R138D R138E R138G R138Q R138H or R138N P7 anchor residue at G139 G139D and or P9 anchor at residue Q141 Q141D Q141N Q141T Q141E Q141R or Q141G.

In addition to modifying one or more anchor residues it is also possible to modify one or more non anchor residues in the above identified clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin T cell epitopes provided the modified epitope retains reduced MHC class II binding as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

In some embodiments the modified T cell epitope is part of a modified ribotoxin molecule e.g. modified clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule where the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises at least one fewer T cell epitope as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin or at least two fewer T cell epitopes at least three fewer T cell epitopes etc. . For example if the wild type ribotoxin comprises two T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type ribotoxin comprises three T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type ribotoxin comprises ten T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises nine T cell epitopes eight T cell epitopes seven T cell epitopes six T cell epitopes five T cell epitopes four T cell epitopes three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type ribotoxin comprises eight T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises seven T cell epitopes six T cell epitopes five T cell epitopes four T cell epitopes three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type ribotoxin comprises six T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises five T cell epitopes four T cell epitopes three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes. Or if the wild type ribotoxin comprises four T cell epitopes in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises three T cell epitopes two T cell epitopes one T cell epitope or zero T cell epitopes.

More specifically the modified ribotoxin molecule e.g. modified clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule may comprise at least one mutation compared with a parent ribotoxin the parent ribotoxin being at least a portion of wild type ribotoxin e.g. wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin a fragment of wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin etc. . In one embodiment the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of a T cell epitope e.g. resulting in the epitope having reduced ability to bind to MHC class II molecules or having no ability to bind MHC class II molecules.

More specifically the modified ribotoxin molecule may comprise at least one mutation compared with a parent ribotoxin the parent ribotoxin being at least a portion of wild type ribotoxin e.g. wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin a fragment of wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin etc . In one embodiment the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of a T cell epitope e.g. resulting in the epitope having reduced ability to bind to MHC class II molecules or having no ability to bind MHC class II molecules. For example the at least one mutation may be within one or more of the following clavin T cell epitopes SEQ ID NO 27 SEQ ID NO 28 SEQ ID NO 29 SEQ ID NO 3 and or SEQ ID NO 5 one or more of the following gigantin T cell epitopes SEQ ID NO 30 SEQ ID NO 31 SEQ ID NO 32 and or SEQ ID NO 3 or one or more of the following mitogillin or restrictocin T cell epitopes SEQ ID NO 33 SEQ ID NO 34 SEQ ID NO 35 SEQ ID NO 36 and or SEQ ID NO 3 .

In some embodiments the modified clavin molecule comprises at least one mutation compared with a parent clavin e.g. a wild type clavin a fragment of wild type clavin etc. wherein the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids Q10 P13 T15 N16 Y18 L63 R66 I69 W71 V122 T125 P127 N128 V130 G133 I134 A136 T138 R139 E140 or Q142 of wild type clavin .

In other embodiments the modified gigantin molecule comprises at least one mutation compared with a parent gigantin e.g. a wild type gigantin a fragment of wild type gigantin etc. wherein the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids Q10 T15 N16 Y18 L63 R66 I69 F71 V122 T125 P127 N128 V130 of wild type gigantin .

In other embodiments the modified mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises at least one mutation compared with a parent mitogillin or restrictocin e.g. a wild type mitogillin or restrictocin a fragment of wild type mitogillin or restrictocin etc. wherein the at least one mutation comprises a mutation of at least one of amino acids Q9 P12 T14 N15 Y17 162 R65 I68 F70 V121 T124 P126 N127 V129 G132 I133 A135 Q137 R138 G139 or Q141 of wild type mitogillin or restrictocin .

Modification of the wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin may include an amino acid substitution as described above. In some embodiments the amino acid substitution is a 1 amino acid substitution e.g. Q10A a 2 amino acid substitution e.g. Q10A and Q142G a 3 amino acid substitution e.g. Q10A N16A Q142G a 4 amino acid substitution a 5 amino acid substitution 6 amino acid substitution a 7 amino acid substitution an 8 amino acid substitution a nine amino acid substitution a 10 amino acid substitution or a more than 10 amino acid substitution.

Modification of the wild type clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin is not limited to an amino acid substitution. For example the modification may include an amino acid deletion or an amino acid addition. In some embodiments the amino acid deletion is a 1 amino acid deletion a 2 amino acid deletion a 3 amino acid deletion a 4 amino acid deletion a 5 amino acid deletion 6 amino acid deletion a 7 amino acid deletion an 8 amino acid deletion a nine amino acid deletion a 10 amino acid deletion or a more than 10 amino acid deletion. In some embodiments the amino acid addition is a 1 amino acid addition a 2 amino acid addition a 3 amino acid addition a 4 amino acid addition a 5 amino acid addition 6 amino acid addition a 7 amino acid addition an 8 amino acid addition a nine amino acid addition a 10 amino acid addition or a more than 10 amino acid addition. Deletions and or additions may optionally correspond to deletions in regions of the molecule other than T cell epitope regions.

The modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule may retain the cytotoxicity of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. Cytotoxicity may refer to ribonucleolytic activity toward a specific substrate e.g. an oligonucleotide substrate e.g. the ribosome ability to interfere with protein synthesis in a cell based assay or cell killing activity toward a particular cell type. For example a cytotoxicity assay may measure the ability of the toxin to degrade the ribosome. Cytotoxicity is not limited to the aforementioned definitions.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule may be as cytotoxic as the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is at least as cytotoxic as the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. It was surprisingly discovered that in certain embodiments the modified sarcin molecule was more cytotoxic than wild type sarcin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is less cytotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 10 less cytotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 15 less cytotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 20 less cytotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule retains the core ribotoxin structure of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. As used herein the term core ribotoxin structure refers to the arrangement of the alpha helix and beta sheet of wild type ribotoxin. For example in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has the same alpha helix arrangement as the corresponding wild type ribotoxin e.g. the general structure of the alpha helix remains the same. In some embodiments the amino acids of the alpha helix remain the same as the wild type ribotoxin. The alpha helix amino acids may refer to Glu27 Ala37 Perez Canadilas et al. J Mol Biol 2009 299 1061 73 or Glu26 Ala36 for mitogillin or restrictocin. In some embodiments one or more amino acids in the alpha helix may be modified but the alpha helix structure is still maintained. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has the same beta sheet structure as the corresponding wild type ribotoxin e.g. the general structure of the beta sheet remains the same. In some embodiments the amino acids of the beta sheet remain the same as wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments one or more amino acids in the alpha helix may be modified but the alpha helix structure is still maintained. The amino acids of the beta sheet may refer to His50 Phe52 and or Leu94 Phe97 and or Ala120 Tyr124 and or Gly 133 Thr138 and or Glu144 Leu146 Perez Canadilas et al. J Mol Biol 2009 299 1061 73 or His49 Phe51 and or Leu93 Phe96 and or Ala119 Tyr123 and or Gly 132 Gln138 and or Asp143 Leu146 in mitogillin or restrictocin. In some embodiments one or more of the amino acids of the active site e.g. His 50 and or Glu 96 and or Arg 121 and or His137 or His 49 Glu 95 Arg 120 and or His 136 in mitogillin or restrictocin are not changed in the modified ribotoxin molecule. In some embodiments one or more of the amino acids of the active site are modified.

The modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule may retain the ribotoxicity of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. Ribotoxicity may refer to ribotoxic e.g. nucleolytic activity toward a specific substrate e.g. oligonucleotide substrate e.g. the ribosome or ability to interfere with protein synthesis in a cell based assay. Ribotoxicity is not limited to the aforementioned definitions.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule may be as ribotoxic as the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is at least as ribotoxic as the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. It was surprisingly discovered that in certain embodiments the modified sarcin molecule is more ribotoxic than wild type sarcin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is less ribotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 10 less ribotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 15 less ribotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 20 less ribotoxic than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

Assays for ribotoxicity and cytotoxicity of sarcin are well known in the art and described in Carreras Sangra et al. 2012 PEDS 25 425 35. Conventional ribotoxicity and cytoxicity assays include the in vitro transcription translation IVTT assay described in the Examples of this application.

Stability of a protein may determine the ability of the protein to withstand storage or transport conditions. Stability may also affect the protein s half life after administration e.g. in serum . The melting temperature of the protein or the temperature at which the protein loses it tertiary structure are non limiting examples of measurements of the physical stability of a protein.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule retains the melting temperature of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. The term retains the melting temperature may refer to plus or minus 2 plus or minus 5 plus or minus 10 . For example a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule retains the melting temperature of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin if its melting temperature is within plus or minus 5 of the melting temperature of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a higher melting temperature than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a lower melting temperature than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is no more than 2 degrees less than the melting temperature of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is no more than 5 degrees less than the melting temperature of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is no more than 10 degrees less than the melting temperature of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is at least 40 C. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is at least 50 C. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is at least 60 C. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is at least 65 C. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is at least 70 C. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a melting temperature that is at least 80 C. Protocols for determining melting temperature of such proteins are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art e.g. see Gong et al. 2009 JBC 28421 pp 14203 14210 and WO 2009 099961A2 .

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule retains the solubility of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. The term retains the solubility may refer to plus or minus 2 plus or minus 5 plus or minus 10 . For example a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule retains the solubility of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin if its solubility is within plus or minus 5 of the solubility of wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a higher solubility than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a lower solubility than the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a solubility that is no more than 10 less than the solubility of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a solubility that is no more than 15 less than the solubility of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule has a solubility that is no more than 20 less than the solubility of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or fusion protein comprises a tag. A tag may include but is not limited to a His tag a flag tag or the like.

Without intending to be bound by any theory or mechanism it is believed that sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin and restrictocin are not degraded by serum proteases. They are also believed to be relatively resistant to lysosomal and cytosolic proteases. In some embodiments the modification s to the wild type ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule to create the modified ribotoxin molecule do not affect the protease resistant properties of wild type ribotoxin. For example in some embodiments the modification s do not add a protease cleavage site.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule maintains the protease resistant property of the corresponding wild type ribotoxin e.g. when subjected to serum proteases and or lysosomal proteases and or cytosolic proteases . In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 10 less protease resistant e.g. when subjected to serum proteases and or lysosomal proteases and or cytosolic proteases as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 20 less protease resistant e.g. when subjected to serum proteases and or lysosomal proteases and or cytosolic proteases as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 30 less protease resistant e.g. when subjected to serum proteases and or lysosomal proteases and or cytosolic proteases as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 40 less protease resistant e.g. when subjected to serum proteases and or lysosomal proteases and or cytosolic proteases as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is no more than 50 less protease resistant e.g. when subjected to serum proteases and or lysosomal proteases and or cytosolic proteases as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin.

The present invention also features ribotoxin fusion proteins e.g. ribotoxin fusion proteins comprising a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule as described above. In some embodiments the ribotoxin fusion protein comprises a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule having reduced immunogenicity in humans as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin and a targeting molecule effective for binding a target.

The targeting molecule may be linked to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the targeting molecule may be incorporated in the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule.

In some embodiments the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is linked to the N terminus of the targeting molecule. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is linked to the C terminus of the targeting molecule. In some embodiments the N terminus of the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the N terminus of the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the C terminus of the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the C terminus of the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule.

Linkers may optionally be used to link the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and the targeting molecule together in a fusion protein. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule via a linker. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule via a linker in some embodiments the fusion protein is an oligomer of modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules and targeting molecules. For example in some embodiments the fusion protein comprises two targeting molecules and one modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the fusion protein comprises two modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules and one targeting molecule. One or more linkers may optionally be used to link fusion proteins together to form an oligomer or to link components within the fusion protein together.

Linkers may affect the overall structure of the fusion protein and the accessibility of functional regions of the components of the fusion protein. For example proline residues are known to bend or kink the structure of a protein and thus a linker comprising one more proline residues may bend or kink the structure of the fusion protein.

A linker for example may include but is not limited to a peptide of various amino acid lengths and or sequences. In some embodiments the linker is between 0 to 10 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 0 to 15 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 0 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 1 to 10 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 1 to 15 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 1 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 2 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 3 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 4 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 5 to 10 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 10 to 15 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is between 15 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the linker is more than 20 amino acids in length. The optimal lengths may vary to match the spacing and orientation of the specific target s .

The linker may be encoded in the gene that encodes the fusion protein. In some embodiments the linker may be covalently bonded e.g. cross linked to a portion of the fusion protein. The linkers may be covalent or very tight non covalent linkages chemical conjugation or direct gene fusions of various amino acid sequences e.g. those a rich in Glycine Serine Proline Alanine or b variants of naturally occurring linking amino acid sequences that connect immunoglobulin domains.

In some embodiments the linker comprises a non peptide component e.g. a sugar residue a heavy metal ion a chemical agent such as a therapeutic chemical agent polyethylene glycols PEGs e.g. discrete PEGs etc. .

In some embodiments the dPEG is linked to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule at either one of a serine tyrosine cysteine or lysine of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the dPEG is linked to a glycosylation site of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the dPEG is linked to the targeting molecule at either one of a serine tyrosine cysteine or lysine of the targeting molecule. In some embodiments the dPEG is linked to a glycosylation site of the targeting molecule. In some embodiments the dPEG is between about 200 to 10 000 daltons.

In some embodiments the linker is a hinge component. For example the targeting molecule may comprise a first half hinge component capable of binding a second half hinge component on the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the hinge components may comprise one or more multimerizing domains. The multimerizing domains may be configured such that they can be cleaved subsequently from the hinge components via proteolysis. Any protease might be used that exhibits sufficient specificity for its particular recognition sequence designed into the linker but does not cleave any other sequence in the fusion protein. The cleavage may occur at the extreme end of the recognition motif so that the final fusion protein molecule does not retain any additional amino acid residues that are part of the protease recognition site The protease may be an enzyme that has little or no effect on a patient if trace amounts were carried over following purification e.g. Factor X thrombin .

An example of a cleavable linker or adapter can be found in Heisler et al. 2003 Int. J. Cancer 103 277 262 and Keller et al. 2001 J Control Release 74 259 261. For example the linker adapter comprises a cytosolic cleavable peptide CCP membrane transfer peptide MTP and endosomal cleavable peptide ECP . Upon endocytosis of the fusion protein enzymatic cleavage releases the ligand exposing the MTP allowing translocation into the cytosol where the MTP is released from the toxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin by an enzymatic cleavage of the CCP. The ribotoxin fusion proteins described herein may use a similar cleavable linker or various components of such a linker as described in the above references.

As previously discussed the fusion protein may be an oligomer e.g. the fusion protein may comprise a targeting molecule dimer or multiple targeting molecules linked to a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is a dimer. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is a trimer. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is a tetramer. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is a pentamer. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises more than five subunits. In some embodiments the fusion protein may be an oligomer e.g. the fusion protein may comprise a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule dimer or multiple modified ribotoxin molecules linked to a targeting molecule. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is a dimer. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is a trimer. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is a tetramer. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is a pentamer. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises more than five subunits.

The two or multiple targeting molecules or the two or multiple modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules may be coupled by a linker wherein the linker can be attached to the individual targeting molecules or modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules at any appropriate location. Examples of where a linker may attach onto the targeting molecules include the C terminus the N terminus a cysteine preceding or following the C terminus or N terminus of the CH2 domain. In some embodiments a linking of two or more targeting molecules or modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules e.g. to form a dimer a trimer etc. is driven by the formation of a disulfide bond between cysteines.

In some embodiments a linker may be selected from the group consisting of 2 iminothiolane N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP 4 succinimidyloxycarbonyl 2 pyridyldithio toluene SMPT m maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysuccinimide ester MBS N succinimidyl 4 iodoacetyl aminobenzoate SIAB succinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate SMPB 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC bis diazobenzidine and glutaraldehyde. In some embodiments a linker may be attached to an amino group a carboxylic group a sulfhydryl group or a hydroxyl group of an amino acid group. The amino group that a linker may attach to includes for example alanine lysine or proline. The carboxylic group that a linker may be attached to may be for example aspartic acid glutamic acid. The sulfhydryl group that a linker may be attached to may be for example cysteine. The hydroxyl group that a linker may be attached to may be for example serine threonine or tyrosine. Any coupling chemistry known to those skilled in the art capable of chemically attaching targeting molecule to another targeting molecule or a targeting molecule to a modified ribotoxin molecule can be used.

The fusion protein comprises targeting molecules effective for binding a target. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises a peptide. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises an antibody an antibody fragment a single chain variable fragment scFv a nanobody an abdurin a CH2 domain molecule a CH2 domain fragment a CH3 domain molecule a CH3 domain fragment a protein scaffold a hormone a receptor binding peptide the like or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises a binding moiety the binding moiety comprises a VH domain a VL domain a tenth type three domain of fibronectin a designed ankyrin repeat protein a centyrin scaffold a peptide ligand a protein ligand a receptor hormone an enzyme a cytokine a small molecule a fragment thereof the like or a combination thereof. The targeting molecule is not limited to the aforementioned examples.

In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises an antigen binding region. In some embodiments the targeting molecule is a CH2 domain molecule having a molecular weight less than about 20 kDa. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises at least one functional FcRn binding site In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises multiple FcRn binding sites e.g. for enhanced serum half life .

In some embodiments the ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin fusion protein is a monospecific molecule e.g. the ribotoxin fusion protein is specific for one target. In some embodiments the ribotoxin fusion protein is a bispecific molecule e.g. the ribotoxin fusion protein is specific for two targets. In some embodiments the ribotoxin fusion protein is a trispecific molecule e.g. the ribotoxin fusion protein is specific for three targets. In some embodiments the ribotoxin fusion protein is specific for more than three targets.

In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises at least a first paratope specific for a first epitope. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises at least two first paratopes each specific for a first epitope. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises a first paratope specific for a first epitope and a second paratope specific for a second epitope.

As previously discussed the ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin fusion protein may further comprise at least one additional targeting molecule. For example in some embodiments ribotoxin fusion protein further comprises a second targeting molecule e.g. linked to either the targeting molecule or the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the ribotoxin fusion protein further comprises a third targeting molecule. In some embodiments the ribotoxin fusion protein further comprises a fourth targeting molecule.

In some embodiments the second targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the second targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule.

In some embodiments the second targeting molecule comprises a first paratope specific for the first epitope. In some embodiments the second targeting molecule comprises a second paratope specific for a second epitope. In some embodiments the targeting molecule comprises a third paratope specific for the first epitope or a fourth paratope specific for a third epitope.

As previously discussed the ribotoxin fusion protein may further comprise at least one additional modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. For example in some embodiments ribotoxin fusion protein further comprises a second modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule. In some embodiments the second modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is linked to the modified ribotoxin molecule. In some embodiments the second modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule is linked to the targeting molecule.

The target may be any appropriate target. A target may include a cell a tumor cell an immune cell a protein a peptide a molecule a bacterium a virus a protist a fungus the like or a combination thereof. For example in some embodiments a target is a receptor e.g. a cell surface receptor. Non limiting examples of specific targets include Her2 receptor PMSA nucleolin death receptors e.g. Fas receptor tumor necrosis factor receptors etc. CD22 CD19 CD79b DR5 ephA2 Muc1 EGFR VEGFRs CTLA 4 bacterial and fungal cell surface receptors CD80 and the like.

In some embodiments the ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin fusion protein further comprises an imaging reagent an isotope a drug an immunoconjugate the like or a combination thereof. The imaging reagent isotope drug or immunoconjugate may be linked to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and or the targeting molecule.

It may be beneficial for the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule e.g. of a ribotoxin fusion protein to lack membrane permeability or have reduced membrane permeability as compared to wild type ribotoxin . This may allow the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule to be administered more safely to patients. For example if the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule e.g. of a ribotoxin fusion protein were to be cleaved from the targeting molecule the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule would not be taken up or would be less likely to be taken up by a cell that is not the intended target cell according to the specificity of the targeting molecule of the ribotoxin fusion protein . In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises a mutation in one or more amino acids important in membrane interaction. For example in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises a mutation in amino acid R120 or R121. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises the mutation R120Q or R121Q. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin molecule comprises the mutation R120S or R121S.

The membrane permeability mutation may not necessarily be coupled with a mutation in a T cell epitope site. However in some embodiments the membrane permeability mutation is coupled with one or multiple mutations in a T cell epitope site mutations described above 

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises a mutation that reduced its membrane permeability but does not reduce its cytotoxicity. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises a mutation that reduced its membrane permeability but does not reduce its ribotoxicity e.g. targeting and or binding to the SRL site of the ribosome is not affected .

In some embodiments a molecule is bound to the N terminus of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule e.g. of a ribotoxin fusion protein wherein the molecule can be cleaved upon uptake of the modified sarcin molecule in a target cell.

The modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule having reduced membrane permeability is not limited to the R120Q R120S R121Q or R121S mutations. For example the first 22 amino acids of sarcin gigantin or clavin or the first 21 amino acids of restrictocin or mitogillin may be important for membrane interaction and trafficking to the rRNA sarcin rich loop target site . In some embodiments one or more of the first 21 or 22 amino acids of the ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin are modified to alter membrane interaction. For example in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises a deletion in the first 5 amino acids a deletion in the first 10 amino acids a deletion in the first 15 amino acids a deletion in the first 20 amino acids a deletion in the first 22 amino acids. In some embodiments one or more of the amino acids in SEQ ID NO 38 may be modified e.g. deleted substituted. Alternatively amino acids may be added to the N terminus e.g. a tag etc. to help eliminate or reduce membrane permeability.

The ribotoxin fusion protein may have enhanced properties e.g. enhanced cell retention as compared to the wild type ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin alone the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule alone and or the targeting molecule alone. For example in some embodiments the targeting molecule is modified to enhance its cell permeability. In some embodiments the ribotoxin is modified to reduce its cell permeability as described above . In some embodiments the targeting molecule is modified to enhance cell permeability and the ribotoxin is modified to reduce its cell permeability.

In some embodiments the fusion protein has increased cell permeability as compared to the targeting molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein has increased cell permeability as compared to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein is modified to increase cell permeability as compared to wild type ribotoxin. In some embodiments the fusion protein is modified to increase cell permeability as compared to the targeting molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein is modified to increase cell permeability as compared to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein has increased cell retention as compared to wild type ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin .

In some embodiments the fusion protein has increased cell retention as compared to the targeting molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein has increased cell retention as compared to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein is modified to increase cell retention as compared to wild type ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin . In some embodiments the fusion protein is modified to increase cell retention as compared to the targeting molecule alone. In some embodiments the fusion protein is modified to increase cell retention as compared to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule alone.

The ribotoxin fusion protein may comprise a means e.g. a linker of allowing it to escape from the endosomes. In some embodiments the linker is designed to be cleaved in the cytosol. In some embodiments the linker cannot be cleaved in the blood e.g. serum.

The modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and or the ribotoxin fusion protein may be expressed in any appropriate expression system. For example in some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and or the ribotoxin fusion protein is expressed in an expression system. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and or the ribotoxin fusion protein is expressed in a expression system.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule comprises or is contained in a pharmaceutical composition. In some embodiments the fusion protein comprises or is contained in a pharmaceutical composition. Examples of pharmaceutical compositions for antibodies and peptides are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art and are described below.

In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or the fusion protein is bound to a molecule or molecules that confers increased stability e.g. serum half life . Dextrans various polyethylene glycols PEG and albumin binding peptides are extremely common scaffolds for this purpose see for example Dennis et al. 2002 Journal of Biological Chemistry 33 238390 . The molecules may be conjugated to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or the fusion protein by a variety of mechanisms for example via chemical treatments and or modification of the protein structure sequence etc see for example Ashkenazi et al. 1997 Current Opinions in Immunology 9 195 200 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 612 034 6 103 233 . The molecule e.g. dextran PEG etc. may be bound to the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or the fusion protein through a reactive sulfhydryl by incorporating a cysteine at the end of the protein opposite the binding loops. Such techniques are well known in the art. In another example a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or a fusion protein may bind specifically to albumin to utilize the albumin in serum to increase circulating half life.

Choosing pharmaceutical compositions that confer increased protein stability or binding of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or the fusion protein to scaffolds that confer increased protein stability are not the only ways in which the stability of the protein can be improved. In some embodiments the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or the fusion protein of the present invention may be modified to alter stability. The term modified or modification in this context can include one or more mutations additions deletions substitutions disulfide bond additions physical alteration e.g. cross linking modification covalent bonding of a component post translational modification e.g. acetylation glycosylation pegylation the like or a combination thereof the like or a combination thereof. Gong et al. 2009 Journal of Biological Chemistry 284 14203 14210 shows examples of modified proteins having increased stability.

Due to the unstable nature of proteins pharmaceutical compositions are often transported and stored via cold chains which are temperature controlled uninterrupted supply chains. For example some pharmaceutical compositions may be stored and transported at a temperature between about 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. Cold chains dramatically increase the costs of such pharmaceutical compositions. Without intending to be bound by any theory or mechanism it is believed that increasing the stability of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clam gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules or the fusion proteins of the present invention e.g. via pharmaceutical compositions etc. may help reduce or eliminate the need to store and transport the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules or the fusion proteins via cold chains.

The pharmaceutical carrier vehicles may be a conventional but is not limited to a conventional carrier vehicle . For example E. W. Martin Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 15th Edition 1975 and D. B. Troy ed. Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Lippincott Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. and Philadelphia Pa. 21st Edition 2006 describe compositions and formulations suitable for pharmaceutical delivery of one or more therapeutic compounds or molecules such as one or more antibodies and additional pharmaceutical agents. U.S. Pat. No. 7 648 702 features an aqueous pharmaceutical composition suitable for long term storage of polypeptides containing an Fc domain of an immunoglobulin.

Pharmaceutical compositions may comprise buffers e.g. sodium phosphate histidine potassium phosphate sodium citrate potassium citrate maleic acid ammonium acetate tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane tris acetate diethanolamine etc. amino acids e.g. arginine cysteine histidine glycine serine lysine alanine glutamic acid proline sodium chloride potassium chloride sodium citrate sucrose glucose mannitol lactose glycerol xylitol sorbitol maltose inositol trehalose bovine serum albumin BSA albumin e.g. human serum albumin recombinant albumin dextran PVA hydroxypropyl methylcellulose HPMC polyethyleneimine gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP hydroxyethylcellulose HEC polyethylene glycol PEG ethylene glycol dimethylsulfoxide DMSO dimethylformamide DMF hydrochloride sacrosine gamma aminobutyric acid Tween 20 Tween 80 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS polysorbate polyoxyethylene copolymer sodium acetate ammonium sulfate magnesium sulfate sodium sulfate trimethylamine N oxide betaine zinc ions copper ions calcium ions manganese ions magnesium ions CHAPS sucrose monolaurate 2 O beta mannoglycerate the like or a combination thereof. The present invention is in no way limited to the pharmaceutical composition components disclosed herein for example pharmaceutical compositions may comprise propellants e.g. hydrofluoroalkane HFA for aerosol delivery. U.S. Pat. No. 5 192 743 describes a formulation that when reconstituted forms a gel which can improve stability of a protein of interest e.g. for storage .

Pharmaceutical compositions may be appropriately constructed for some or all routes of administration for example topical administration including inhalation and nasal administration oral or enteral administration intravenous or parenteral administration transdermal administration epidural administration and or the like. For example parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water physiological saline balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like as a vehicle. For solid compositions for example powder pill tablet or capsule forms conventional non toxic solid carriers can include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch or magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically neutral carriers pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives and pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate.

In some embodiments a parenteral formulation may comprise injectable fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water physiological saline balanced salt solutions aqueous dextrose glycerol or the like as a vehicle. As a non limiting example the formulation for injectable trastuzumab includes L histidine HCl L histidine trehalose dihydrate and polysorbate 20 as a dry powder in a glass vial that is reconstituted with sterile water prior to injection. Other formulations of antibodies and proteins for parenteral or subcutaneous use are well known in the art. For solid compositions for example powder pill tablet or capsule forms conventional non toxic solid carriers can include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch or magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically neutral carriers pharmaceutical compositions to be administered can contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents preservatives and pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate or sorbitan monolaurate. The aforementioned pharmaceutical compositions and protein modifications to increase protein stability can be applied as described in U.S. Patent Application 2009 032692 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Methods for producing modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules and fusion proteins described herein are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. For example the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules may be expressed in a bacterial system e.g. including but not limited to Henze et al. 192 127 131 1990 a yeast system a phage display system an insect system a mammalian system a ribosomal display a cis display system Odegrip et al. 2004 PNAS 101 2806 2810 the like or a combination thereof. Construction of fusion proteins with sarcin in a expression system has been described in Carreras Sangra et al. 2012 PEDS 25 425 35. The present invention is not limited to the methods e.g. protein expression and display systems described herein. Briefly as an example the method may comprise obtaining a vector having a sequence for a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule producing a protein product of the sequence for the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule in an expression system and at least partially purifying the protein product.

The present invention also features a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule having reduced immunogenicity as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin produced from methods described herein e.g. see Examples below . As discussed above the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin optionally has enhanced solubility and stability and or reduced membrane permeability or enhanced cell retention as compared to the corresponding wild type ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin and can be produced from the methods described herein.

The modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules of the present disclosure may be important tools for treating or managing diseases or conditions. The present disclosure also provides methods of treating or managing a disease or a condition e.g. in a mammal e.g. a human . The methods may comprise obtaining a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or fusion protein comprising the same and introducing the modified ribotoxin molecule or fusion protein into a patient wherein the modified ribotoxin molecule or fusion protein binds to a target and the binding functions to cause neutralization or destruction of the target.

Optionally the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or fusion protein comprising the same binds to a first or second target that causes either activation or inhibition of a signaling event through that target. The modified ribotoxin molecule or fusion protein comprising the same may comprise an agent e.g. chemical peptide toxin that functions to neutralize or destroy the first target. In some embodiments the agent is inert or has reduced activity when it is constructed as the modified ribotoxin molecule or fusion protein comprising the same and the agent may be activated or released upon uptake or recycling.

Binding of the modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule or fusion protein comprising the same fusion protein may function to cause the neutralization or destruction of the target. The target may be for example a cell a tumor cell an immune cell a protein a peptide a molecule a bacterium a virus a protist a fungus the like or a combination thereof. The target is not limited to the aforementioned examples. As an example destruction of a target cell in this example a tumor may be achieved by therapy using the following fusion protein a modified ribotoxin e.g. sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecule and a targeting molecule comprising a CH2 domain molecule directed to a particular tumor surface antigen such as an EGFR IGFR nucleolin ROR1 CD20 CD19 CD22 CD79a stem cell markers .

In some embodiments the fusion protein can bind to an immune effector cell surface antigen for example a T cell specific antigen like CD3 or an NK cell specific surface antigen like Fc RIIIa .

Various methods may be used for detecting the binding of the fusion protein e.g. targeting molecule to the target in the sample. Such methods are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

While not explicitly described the present invention also features isolated DNA sequences and recombinant constructs for production of the modified ribotoxin sarcin clavin gigantin mitogillin or restrictocin molecules and fusion proteins described herein. DNA sequences can be codon optimized for the various expression hosts.

Overlapping peptides derived from the 150 amino acid sarcin toxin sequence and peptides for a null mutation to allow expression and testing of the lead deimmunized sarcin toxin variants were tested using EpiScreen T cell epitope mapping technology Antitope Ltd Cambridge UK . EpiScreen is a highly accurate and sensitive human ex vivo T cell assay technology used to determine helper CD4 T cell responses to whole proteins peptides formulations and NCEs New Chemical Entities .

The EpiScreen T cell epitope mapping technology protocol uses 15mer peptides overlapping by 12 amino acids. The use of 15 mer peptides will help identify the location of T cell epitopes. For the present study 46 15 mer peptides were used. In addition two sets of 5 peptides spanning null mutants E96Q and H1370 were tested.

The 15 mer sarcin peptides were tested for proliferation against 50 healthy PBMC donors who were selected to best represent the spread of HLA DR alleles in the population. . CD8 T cells in the PBMC samples were depleted to exclude the detection of MHC class I restricted T cell responses. PBMC from each donor were thawed counted and viability was assessed. Cells were revived in room temperature AIM VR culture medium Invitrogen Paisley UK before adjusting the cell density to 2 3 106 PBMC ml proliferation cell stock . Peptides were synthesized on a 1 3 mg scale with free N terminal amine and C terminal carboxylic acid. Peptides were dissolved in DMSO to a concentration of 10 mM and peptide culture stocks prepared by diluting into AIM VR culture medium to a final concentration of 5 M in the well. For each peptide and each donor sextuplicate cultures were established in a flat bottomed 96 well plate. Both positive and negative control cultures were also tested in sextuplicate. For each donor three controls KLH protein and peptides derived from IFV and EBV were also included. For a positive control PHA Sigma Dorset UK was used at a final concentration of 2.5 g ml.

Cultures were incubated for a total of 6 days before adding 0.75 Ci 3 H thymidine Perkin ElmerR Beaconsfield UK to each well. Cultures were incubated for a further 18 hours before harvesting onto filter mats using a TomTec Mach III cell harvester. Cpm for each well were determined by Meltilex Perkin ElmerR Beaconsfield UK scintillation counting on a Microplate Beta Counter Perkin ElmerR Beaconsfield UK in paralux low background counting mode.

Data were presented as non adjusted all replicates and adjusted removing outliers and analyzed using previously validated assay parameters. Peptides were considered positive if the number of responding donors stimulation index SI of 2.0 was greater than the average response for the complete dataset plus 2 standard deviation 6.6 in both data sets where SI mean cpm of test wells mean cpm medium control wells. Data presented in this way is indicated as SI 2.00 p

The results of the EpiScreen Antitope Ltd Cambridge UK T cell epitope mapping of sarcin are shown in . Two T cell epitopes were identified one located within the N terminal 22 amino acid region involved in membrane interaction and binding of sarcin to the ribosome Sarcin Epitope 1 and the other spanning H137 which is part of the catalytic triad Sarcin Epitope 2 . For Sarcin Epitope 1 an alignment of peptides 2 3 and 4 as shown below revealed a predicted HLA DQ core 9mer binding register corresponding to amino acids 10 18 of sarcin SEQ ID NO 5 .

Peptides 2 and 3 stimulated positive T cell responses in both the non adjusted and adjusted data sets. Peptide 4 did not elicit a significant T cell response. This was likely due to the lack of a P 1 residue in that peptide residue 9 of wild type sarcin which supports peptide binding to HLA DQ.

For Sarcin Epitope 2 an alignment of peptides 44 45 53 and 54 peptides 53 and 54 were derived from the H137 null mutant as shown below revealed a second T cell epitope a predicted HLA DR core 9 mer binding register corresponding to amino acids 134 142 of wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 4 .

Peptides 44 45 53 and 54 stimulated positive T cell responses in both the non adjusted and adjusted data sets. This epitope spans the catalytic residue H137 and peptides containing the null mutation H137Q are also immunogenic.

Individual single epitope variants of sarcin were designed in such a way that the immunogenic regions identified by T cell epitope mapping were modified to reduce or eliminate the immunogenicity of the wild type sarcin protein while retaining its cytotoxic function. Design of such variants was assisted by computer modeling of sarcin protein structure. Constraints on modification of sarcin at certain locations were considered and appropriate amino acid changes taking into consideration secondary and tertiary protein structures as well as potential interactions of amino acid side chains with the core of the protein were designed for removal of T cell epitopes from sarcin toxin. Selection of specific amino acid changes were influenced by the available biophysical and biochemical data particularly where amino acids are located that may contribute to known or predicted functions of sarcin toxin and also to the correct folding of sarcin.

A number of single amino acid mutations both within and immediately adjacent to P 1 the amino acid directly N terminal to the epitope the two T cell epitopes identified in Example 1 SEQ ID NO 5 and SEQ ID NO 4 were generated and the toxic activity was assessed in an in vitro transcription translation IVTT assay.

More specifically 29 single epitope variants having a single mutation as shown in were generated using the sarcin wild type expression plasmid pRCT02 001 as a template and applying PCR based site directed mutagenesis. The single epitope variants were cloned into the T7 expression plasmid pET22b Novagen Cat. No. 69744 downstream of the NdeI site. As the null mutation H137Q from expression plasmid pRCT02 002 was previously shown to be immunogenic an alternative non immunogenic null mutation E96Q was also included using PCR based site directed mutagenesis pRCT02 036 . All constructs were confirmed by sequencing.

To assess the toxic activity of the single epitope variants a cell free IVTT assay was performed with a TnT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System Promega Cat. No. L4610 . Briefly pET22b plasmids containing either wild type sarcin pRCT02 001 sarcin H137Q pRCT02 002 sarcin E96Q pRCT02 036 or the 29 single epitope variants having a single mutation as shown in were tested at concentrations ranging from 200 ng to 3.125 ng per 12.5 p1 reaction. The test DNA was combined with the IVTT reaction mix and incubated at 22 C. for 45 min. 250 ng of T7 Luciferase plasmid provided with the TnT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System Promega Cat. No. L4610 were added and the reactions incubated at 24 C. for a further 90 min. Luciferase activity was measured using Steady Glo reagent Promega Cat. No. E2510 according to the manufacturer s instructions. Luminescence was measured in a FluoStar Optima plate reader BMG Labtech . PRCT02 001 positive control and pRCT02 002 negative control plasmids were included in each experiment. The results are summarized in Table 9.

The data indicate that 28 out of the 29 single epitope mutants of sarcin 15 15 in epitope 1 and 13 14 in epitope 2 retained the ability to significantly inhibit the translation of the luciferase gene at a level similar to wild type sarcin pRCT02 001 with the exception being I134A in epitope 2. The majority of variants inhibited luciferase gene translation at levels similar to wild type sarcin subject to assay variation . Several variants unexpectedly inhibited luciferase gene translation at levels superior to wild type sarcin. The data for 3 single epitope variants K139G K139N and Q142D suggested reduced inhibition of translation relative IC50s 1.5 . No inhibition was observed with RCT02 036 which encodes the null mutant sarcin E96Q.

The following example describes the design and construction of multiple epitope variants of sarcin having one mutation in Sarcin Epitope 1 and one mutation in Sarcin Epitope 2.

The double epitope variants were generated using the wild type sarcin expression plasmid pRCT02 001 as a template and applying PCR based site directed mutagenesis resulting in the plasmids detailed in Table 10. The double epitope variants were cloned into the T7 expression plasmid pET22b Novagen Cat. No. 69744 downstream of the NdeI site. All constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing.

To assess the toxic activity of the double epitope variants a cell free IVTT assay was performed with a TnT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System Promega Cat. No. L4610 according to the manufacturer s instructions with some modifications. Briefly pET22b plasmids containing either wild type sarcin pRCT02 001 a sarcin H137Q pRCT02 002 or double epitope variants were tested at concentrations ranging from 200 ng to 3.125 ng per 12.5 l reaction. The test DNA was combined with the IVTT reaction mix and incubated at 22 C. for 45 min. 250 ng of T7 Luciferase plasmid DNA provided with the TnT T7 Coupled Reticulocyte Lysate System Promega Cat. No. L4610 were added and the reactions incubated at 24 C. for a further 90 min. Luciferase activity was measured using Steady Glo reagent Promega Cat. No. E2510 according to the manufacturer s instructions. Luminescence was measured in a FluoStar Optima plate reader BMG l abtech . pRCTO2 001 positive control and pRCT02 002 negative control plasmids were included in each experiment. Relative IC50 values were calculated by dividing the IC50 of S WT pRCT02 001 by that of the double epitope variant assayed on the same plate. The results are summarized in Table 9 above. The data indicated that 18 out of the 20 double epitope variants retained the ability to inhibit the translation of the luciferase gene at a level within 2 fold of wild type sarcin pRCT02 001 .

Eight double epitope variants were selected as shown in Table 11 for protein production and further analysis. These were partly based on activity data as summarized in Table 10 and on other criteria for example exclusion of Q142N based on its association with a number of less active variants. Genes encoding the eight selected double epitope variants were cloned into the T7 expression plasmid pET22b Novagen downstream of a modified OMPA outer membrane protein A leader peptide which has been shown to have improved processing and export compared to the original sequence Lacadena J. et al. 1994 to create the expression vectors detailed in Table 11. In addition a 6 His tag SEQ ID NO 50 was genetically fused to the C terminus of the proteins to enable detection using anti His antibodies as well as for use in protein purification.

To express the double epitope variants an BL21 strain SHuffle T7 Express NEB Cat. No. C3029H derivative overexpressing the chaperonins GroEL S was used. Bacteria were transformed with expression plasmids encoding double epitope variants together with wild type sarcin and the null mutant sarcin H137Q and plated out. Single colonies were picked and grown in 2YT broth overnight at 37 C. The following day the overnight culture was diluted 1 20 in 2YT broth and bacterial growth at 37 C. was monitored by OD600 measurement. Protein expression was induced at OD600 nm 1.0 by adding IPTG to give a final concentration of 1 mM and the culture was then grown at 20 C. overnight before cells were harvested by centrifugation. Cell pellets were resuspended in 10 ml B PER reagent per 50 ml culture Pierce Cat. No. 78248 containing Dnase I Roche Cat. No. 04716728001 with protease inhibitors Roche Cat. No. 04693159001 . The insoluble protein was removed by centrifugation according to the manufacturer s protocol and soluble protein quantitated using a Bio Rad protein assay Cat. No. 500 0006 . The protein gels were western blotted and expressed protein detected using an anti His antibody Sigma Cat. No. A7058 . The western blot showed that a significant proportion of the protein expressed of the double epitope variants was soluble. . The exception was the variant Y181 Y139D pRCT02 058 which showed a significant insoluble fraction with only a minor fraction soluble. .

To assess activity the soluble material was tested in the IVTT assay as discussed above. 4 fold serial dilutions starting at 1 ng of soluble protein extract in the first well were performed followed by preincubated with the IVTT reagent at 30 C. for 15 min before 250 ng of T7 Luciferase plasmid was added to each reaction. The reactions were incubated at 30 C. for 90 min and luciferase activity was measured using Steady Glo reagent Promega Cat. No. E2510 as described above. Many of the double mutants showed enhanced expression levels compared to wild type sarcin with significantly greater amounts of soluble material being produced. The soluble material in the double epitope variant crude extracts was significantly more active in the IVTT assay compared to a sarcin H137Q suggesting that the protein is correctly folded. . Some background activity was associated with the soluble extract from a sarcin H137Q however this may be attributed to the fact that the sarcin H137Q protein was not purified and therefore contained other bacterial host proteins.

In summary genes encoding 20 double epitope variants of sarcin were generated cloned and tested in the IVTT assay. Of these 18 variants retained activity in the IVTT assay within two fold of wild type sarcin. The expression and activity of 8 selected double epitope variants were further analyzed following cloning into an expression vector. Expression of soluble protein was improved for all variants except Y18K Y139D pRCT02 058 compared to wild type sarcin and soluble protein from each of these variants was extracted and shown to be active in the IVTT assay.

The following example describes the design and construction of 1 triple variants of sarcin having either two mutations in Sarcin Epitope 1 and one mutation in Sarcin Epitope 2 or one mutation in Sarcin Epitope 1 and two mutations in Sarcin Epitope 2 and 2 quadruple variants of sarcin having two mutations in Sarcin Epitope 1 and two mutations in Sarcin Epitope 2.

Seven triple and two quadruple variants were generated using the sarcin WT expression plasmid pRCT02 001 as a template and applying PCR based site directed mutagenesis resulting in plasmids detailed in Table 12. The epitope variants were cloned into the T7 expression plasmid pET22b Novagen Cat. No. 69744 downstream of the NdeI site. All constructs were confirmed by DNA sequencing.

The toxic activity of the triple and quadruple variants was assessed as described in Example 3. The results are shown in and summarized in Table 12 above. The data indicated that 4 out of the 9 triple and quadruple variants of a sarcin retained the ability to inhibit the translation of the luciferase gene pRCT02 001 .

Four triple variants as shown in Table 13 were selected based on activity data as summarized in Table 12 for protein production and further analysis. Genes encoding the four selected triple variants were cloned into the T7 expression plasmid pET22b Novagen downstream of a modified OMPA outer membrane protein A leader peptide which has been shown to have improved processing and export compared to the original sequence Lacaciena J. et al. 1994 to create the expression vectors detailed in Table 13. In addition a 6 His tag SEQ ID NO 50 was genetically fused to the C terminus of the proteins to enable detection using anti His antibodies as well as to assist in protein purification.

The triple variants of sarcin were expressed as in Example 3. The protein gels were western blotted and expressed protein detected using an anti His antibody Sigma Cat. No. A7058 as shown in . shows that a significant proportion of the protein expressed for the triple variants was soluble. The amount of soluble material produced by all triple variants was comparable to sarcin WT. Protein expression from pRCT02 092 and pRCT02 093 appeared to be greater than from pRCT02 090 and pRCT02 091.

To batch purify triple variants of sarcin an BL21 strain SHuffle T7 Express derivative NEB Cat. No. C3029H overexpressing the chaperonins GroEL S was used Bacteria were transformed with expression plasmids encoding triple variants together with sarcin WT and the null mutant S H 137Q and these were plated out. Single colonies were picked and grown in 2T broth overnight at 37 C. The following day the overnight cultures were diluted 1 20 in 500 ml 2YT broth and bacterial growth at 37 C. was monitored by OD600 measurement. Protein expression was induced at OD600 nm 1.0 by adding IPTG to give a final concentration of 1 mM and the cultures were then grown at 20 C. overnight before cells were harvested by centrifugation and frozen overnight at 80 C. Cell pellets were resuspended in B PER Pierce Cat. No. 78248 containing Dnase I Roche Cat. No. 04716728001 with protease inhibitors Roche Cat. No. 04693159001 . The insoluble protein was removed by centrifugation according to the manufacturer s protocol. Soluble protein was diluted 2 fold in 40 mM Tris pH 7.5 300 mM NaCl 80 mM imidazole and cleared by centrifugation before addition of 1 ml of Ni NTA agarose Qiagen Cat. No. 1018244 pre equilibrated with 20 mM Tris pH 7.5 300 mM NaCl and 40 mM imidazole binding buffer and incubation with rotation overnight at 4 C. Unbound protein was removed by centrifugation followed by a 10 CV wash with binding buffer. A step elution was then performed starting with a 10 CV wash with 20 mM Tris pH 7.5 300 mM NaCl 100 mM imidazole wash buffer followed by elution with 20 mM Tris pH 7.5 300 mM NaCl 400 mM imidazole elution buffer . 1 ml fractions from the elution were collected and run on protein gels. Fractions containing the protein of interest were pooled buffer exchanged into PBS pH 7.4 and soluble protein quantitated using a Bio Rad protein assay Cat. No. 500 0006 . All proteins were then analysed by reducing SOS PAGE. 1 g of each sample was loaded on a NuPage 4 12 Bis Tris gel lnvitrogen Cat. No. NP0322BOX and run at 200 V for 35 min.

To assess activity of the purified triple variants an IVTT assay was performed as described above with some modifications. In brief 5 ng of purified protein and 10 fold dilutions thereof were preincubated with ribosomes at 30 C. for 15 min before 250 ng of T7 Luciferase plasmid was added to each reaction. The reactions were incubated at 30 C. for 90 min and Luciferase activity was measured using Steady Glo reagent as described above. As shown in all variants retained activity comparable to that of the wild type sarcin.

The cytotoxic activity of purified proteins was measured in a cellular cytotoxicity assay using the T lymphoblastoid cell line Jurkat as the target. Briefly Jurkat cells in the log phase of growth were diluted to 1.25 10cells ml and 50 l dispensed into each well of a 96 well white walled tissue culture plate Corning Cat. No. 3610 . A dilution plate was prepared containing a seven point 5 fold dilution series of each test sample and 50 l of each dilution series was transferred directly onto the Jurkat cells. The Jurkat cell plate was then returned to the incubator for a further 72 hours. After incubation the plate was equilibrated at room temperature for 10 min. The plate was developed by the addition of 100 l of Cell TiterGlo reagent Promega Cat. No. G7571 to each well and 1 second luminescence readings were taken using a FluoStar Optima plate reader BMG Labtech .

Using purified triple variants efficient killing of Jurkat cells was observed with all variants indicating that the proteins both translocate across the cell membrane and inhibit protein synthesis similarly to sarcin WT.

In summary 7 triple variants and 2 quadruple variants were generated and tested in the IVTT assay. These data showed that 4 of the triple variants retained the ability to inhibit the translation of the luciferase reporter gene. These variants each contained one mutation in epitope 1 and two mutations in epitope 2. Variants containing two mutations in epitope 1 and one mutation in epitope 2 as well as quadruple variants which contained two mutations in each epitope were all shown to have impaired activity in the IVTT assay. The four triple variants that retained activity were further analysed to assess expression and activity. Significant levels of protein from these triple variants were soluble and purified protein was shown to be active in the IVTT assay as well as a cellular cytotoxicity assay.

The following example describes immunogenicity testing of optimized epitope variants using EpiScreen whole protein time course T cell assays.

For an assessment of the immunogenicity the lead and backup optimized sarcin toxin epitope variants identified see above will be expressed as null mutants purified and compared against purified wild type null mutant sarcin toxin in EpiScreen whole protein time course T cell assays in order to confirm reduced risk of immunogenicity.

Bulk cultures of CD8 T cell depleted PBMC from selected healthy donors will be established in the presence of the wild type and optimized variant sarcin toxins. Aliquots of T blasts will be removed from the bulk cultures on days 5 to 8 with an assessment of T cell activation being made by proliferation 3H thymidine uptake and IL 2 cytokine secretion ELISpot assays .

Buffy coats from 20 HLA typed healthy donors will be used to isolate PBMC that contain physiological levels of APC and CD4 T cells. CD8 T cells will be depleted to exclude the detection of MHC class I restricted T cell responses Each donor will be tested against reproducibility control antigens including keyhole limpet haemocyanin a potent neoantigen or tetanus toxoid recall antigen sarcin toxin specific T cell activation will then be determined by proliferation 3H thymidine uptake and IL 2 secretion ELISpot Data will be analyzed using previously validated assay parameters whereby responses of a stimulation index SI of 2.0 are scored as positive supported by additional information including statistical and frequency analysis Data for the optimized sarcin variants will be compared to wild type sarcin toxin. This will provide for an assessment of the relative risk of immunogenicity for the optimized sarcin variants compared to wild type Immunogenicity data for the optimized sarcin variants will also be compared to benchmark EpiScreen data for a range of clinical stage antibodies and proteins with known immunogenicity. This will provide for an assessment of the risk of clinical immunogenicity for the lead and back up optimized sarcin variants. An assessment will be made of any association between donor MHC class II allotype and T cell responses to the lead and back up optimized sarcin variants.

The disclosures of the following U.S. Patents are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 750 136 8 252 897 U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0178082 U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0135620.

Various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Each reference cited in the present application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Although there has been shown and described the preferred embodiment of the present invention it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications may be made thereto which do not exceed the scope of the invention.

1. A modified sarcin T cell epitope wherein the modified T cell epitope comprises one or more amino acid substitutions of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of XKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 44 wherein X is Q or DQ and wherein the modified T cell epitope has reduced binding to human MHC class II molecules as compared to the wild type T cell epitope.

2. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope is modified at one or more of the P1 P4 P6 P7 or P9 MHC class II anchor residues of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of QKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 5 or at one or more of the P1 P1 P4 P6 P7 or P9 MHC class II anchor residues of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of DQKNPKTNKY SEQ ID NO 6 .

3. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope has the amino acid sequence of XXNXKXXKX wherein Xis Q K R or A Xis K or L X is P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A and Xis Y H K R or W SEQ ID NO 8 or wherein the modified T cell epitope has the amino acid sequence of XXXNXKXXKX wherein Xis D A or T Xis Q K R or A Xis K or L Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A and Xis Y H K R or W SEQ ID NO 9 .

4. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope is modified at the P1 Q and P7 N or P9 Y anchor residues of SEQ ID NO 5.

5. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope is modified at the P7 N and P1 Q or P9 Y anchor residues of SEQ ID NO 5.

6. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope is modified at the P9 Y and P7 N or P1 Q anchor residues of SEQ ID NO 5.

1. A modified sarcin T cell epitope wherein the modified T cell epitope comprises one or more amino acid substitutions of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of IIAHTKENQ SEQ ID NO 4 and wherein the modified T cell epitope elicits a reduced T cell response as compared to the wild type T cell epitope.

2. The modified sarcin T cell epitope wherein the modified T cell epitope is modified at one or more of the P1 P6 P7 or P9 MHC class II anchor residues of a wild type T cell epitope having the amino acid sequence of IIAHTKENQ SEQ ID NO 4 

3. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope has the amino acid sequence of XXAHXXXNX wherein Xis I or A Xis I or V Xis T or Q Xis K D E G Q H or N Xis E or D and Xis Q D N T E R or G SEQ ID NO 11 .

4. The modified sarcin T cell epitope of claim wherein the modified T cell epitope is modified at the P6 K and P9 Q anchor residues of SEQ ID NO 4.

1. A modified sarcin molecule or fragment thereof comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 75 identical to SEQ ID NO 1 and comprising at least one modified T cell epitope core comprising at least one amino acid modification in a sequence selected from XKNPKTNKY SEQ ID 1 10 44 wherein X is Q or DO and IIAHTKENQ SEQ ID NO 4 wherein said modified sarcin molecule or fragment thereof inhibits protein synthesis and elicits a reduced T cell response as compared to wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 .

2. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 1 wherein the modified sarcin molecule comprises at least one first mutation at one or more of D9 Q10 P13 T15 N16 or Y18 of wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 .

3. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 1 wherein the modified sarcin molecule comprises at least one first mutation at one or more of I134 K139 E140 or 0142 of wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 .

4. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 1 wherein the modified sarcin molecule comprises at least one first mutation at one or more of D9 Q10 P13 T15 N16 or Y18 of wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 and at least one second mutation at one or more of I134 K139 E140 or 0142 of wild type sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 .

5. A composition comprising the modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier.

7. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 6 wherein the cell binding ligand is an antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof a cytokine a polypeptide a hormone a growth factor or insulin.

9. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 7 wherein the antibody is monoclonal polyclonal humanized genetically engineered or grafted.

10. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 7 wherein the antigen binding fragment is a Fab a Fab2 a F ab 2 a ScFv a ScFv 2 a single chain binding polypeptide a VH or a VL.

11. A composition comprising the modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 6 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier.

12. A modified sarcin protein that elicits a reduced T cell response as compared to wild type alpha sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of the modified sarcin protein comprises 

wherein Xthrough Xcan be any amino acid SEQ ID NO 12 provided that the amino acid sequence of the modified sarcin protein is not identical to the wild type sarcin protein SEQ ID NO 1 .

13. The modified sarcin protein of embodiment 12 wherein Xis D A or T Xis Q K R or A Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A Xis Y H K or R Xis I or A X is K D E G Q H or N Xis E or D and Xis Q D N T E R or G SEQ ID NO 13 .

14. A modified sarcin protein or fragment thereof comprising at least one modified T cell epitope wherein the at least one modified T cell epitope comprises at least one amino acid modification as compared to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO 1 and wherein the modified sarcin protein or fragment thereof elicits a reduced T cell response as compared to wild type alpha sarcin SEQ ID NO 1 .

1. A nucleic acid encoding a modified sarcin protein wherein the modified sarcin protein has a reduced propensity to elicit an immune response as compared to the wild type sarcin protein SEQ ID NO 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of the modified sarcin protein comprises 

wherein Xthrough Xcan be any amino acid SEQ ID NO 12 provided that the amino acid sequence of the modified sarcin protein is not identical to the wild type sarcin protein SEQ ID NO 1 .

1.1. The nucleic acid encoding a modified sarcin protein according to embodiment 1 wherein the modified sarcin protein inhibits protein synthesis on ribosomes.

2. The nucleic acid encoding a modified sarcin protein according to embodiment 1 wherein X is D A or T Xis Q K R or A Xis P or I Xis T G Q or H Xis N R K or A Xis Y H K or R Xis I or A Xis K D E G Q H or N Xis E or D and Xis Q D N T E R or G SEQ ID NO 13 .

3. The nucleic acid encoding a modified sarcin protein according to embodiment 1 wherein said immune response is T cell activity.

4. A nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin comprising a a nucleic acid encoding a targeting moiety attached to b a nucleic acid encoding the modified sarcin protein of embodiment 1.

5. A nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin comprising a a nucleic acid encoding a ligand that binds to a target attached to b a nucleic acid encoding the modified sarcin protein of embodiment 1.

6. The nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin of embodiment 5 wherein the ligand is an antibody or antibody fragment that binds to the target.

7. The nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin of embodiment 6 wherein the antibody or antibody fragment binds to Ep CAM on the surface of the cancer cell.

8. The nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin of embodiment 7 wherein the antibody or antibody fragment that binds to Ep CAM is a humanized antibody or antibody fragment that binds to the extracellular domain of human Ep CAM and comprises complementarity determining region sequences derived from a MOC 31 antibody.

9. The nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin of embodiment 7 wherein the variable region of the cancer binding ligand attached to the modified sarcin protein is 4D5MOCB.

10. The nucleic acid encoding a cytotoxin of embodiment 6 wherein the antibody or antibody fragment binds to a tumor associated antigen on the surface of the cancer cell.

2. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified sarcin molecule.

3. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified sarcin molecule.

4. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule is incorporated within the modified sarcin molecule.

5. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule and the modified sarcin molecule are linked via a linker.

5.1. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 5 wherein the linker comprises an amino acid or a peptide.

6. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 5 wherein the linker is between 1 and 20 amino acids in length.

7. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 5 wherein the linker is between 3 and 20 amino acids in length.

8. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 5 wherein the linker is between 4 and 30 amino acids in length.

9. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 5 wherein the linker comprises a discrete polyethylene glycol dPEG .

9.1. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 9 wherein the dPEG is linked to the modified sarcin molecule at either one of a serine tyrosine cysteine or lysine of the modified sarcin molecule or a glycosylation site of the modified sarcin molecule.

9.2. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 9 wherein the dPEG is linked to the targeting molecule at either one of a serine tyrosine cysteine or lysine of the targeting molecule or a glycosylation site of the targeting molecule.

9.3. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 9 wherein the dPEG is between about 200 to 10 000 daltons.

9.4. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein a branched dPEG molecule is linked to the targeting molecule.

9.5. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 9.3 wherein between 1 and 12 sarcin molecules are attached to one or more branches of the branched dPEG molecule.

11. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises an antibody an antibody fragment a single chain variable fragment scFv a nanobody an abdurin a CH2 domain molecule a CH2 domain fragment a CH3 domain molecule a CH3 domain fragment a protein scaffold a hormone a receptor binding peptide or a combination thereof.

11.01. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 11 wherein the targeting molecule targets Her2 receptor PMSA nucleolin or a death receptor.

11.02. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 11.01 wherein the death receptor is a Fas receptor or tumor necrosis factor receptor

11.1. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises a binding moiety the binding moiety comprises a VH domain a VL domain a camelid VHH domain a tenth type three domain of fibronectin a designed ankyrin repeat protein a centyrin scaffold a peptide ligand a protein ligand a receptor hormone an enzyme a cytokine a small molecule a fragment thereof or a combination thereof.

12. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises an antigen binding region.

13. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule is a CH2 domain molecule having a molecular weight less than about 20 kDa.

14. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises at least one functional FcRn binding site

15. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is a monospecific molecule.

16. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is a bispecific molecule.

17. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is a trispecific molecule.

18. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises at least a first paratope specific for a first epitope.

19. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises at least two first paratopes each specific for a first epitope.

20. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises a first paratope specific for a first epitope and a second paratope specific for a second epitope.

21. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 further comprising a second targeting molecule linked to either the targeting molecule or the modified sarcin molecule.

21A. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 further comprising at least one additional targeting molecule.

22. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 21 wherein the second targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified sarcin molecule and the targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified sarcin molecule.

23. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 21 wherein the second targeting molecule is linked to the C terminus of the modified sarcin molecule and the targeting molecule is linked to the N terminus of the modified sarcin molecule.

24. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 21 wherein the second targeting molecule comprises a first paratope specific for the first epitope.

25. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 21 wherein the second targeting molecule comprises a second paratope specific for a second epitope.

26. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the targeting molecule comprises a third paratope specific for the first epitope or a fourth paratope specific for a third epitope.

27. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 further comprising a second modified sarcin molecule.

27A. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 further comprising at least one additional modified sarcin molecule.

28. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 27 wherein the second modified sarcin molecule is linked to the modified sarcin molecule.

29. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 27 wherein the second modified sarcin molecule is linked to the targeting molecule.

29.1 The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the ribotoxin fusion protein comprises a cleavable linker linking the modified sarcin molecule to the targeting molecule.

29.2. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 29.1 wherein the cleavable linker can be cleaved in the cytosol.

29.3. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 29.1 wherein the cleavable linker can be cleaved in the endosome.

29.4. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 29.1 wherein the cleavable linker is not cleaved in serum.

30. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 27 wherein the second modified sarcin molecule is linked to the modified sarcin molecule or the targeting molecule via a linker.

31. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 30 wherein the linker comprises a discrete polyethylene glycol dPEG .

32. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 31 wherein the dPEG is linked to the modified sarcin molecule at either one of a serine tyrosine cysteine or lysine of the modified sarcin molecule or a glycosylation site of the modified sarcin molecule.

33. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 31 wherein the dPEG is linked to the targeting molecule at either one of a serine tyrosine cysteine or lysine of the targeting molecule or a glycosylation site of the targeting molecule.

34. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 31 wherein the dPEG is between about 200 to 10 000 daltons.

36. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 further comprising an imaging reagent an isotope a drug an immunoconjugate or a combination thereof.

37. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 36 wherein the imaging reagent isotope drug or immunoconjugate is linked to the modified sarcin molecule.

38. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 36 wherein the imaging reagent isotope drug or an immunoconjugate is linked to the targeting molecule.

40. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the target comprises a cell a tumor cell an immune cell a protein a peptide a molecule a bacterium a virus a protist a fungus or a combination thereof.

44A. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein has increased cell permeability as compared to wild type sarcin.

44B. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein has increased cell permeability as compared to the targeting molecule alone.

44C. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein has increased cell permeability as compared to the modified sarcin molecule alone.

44D. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is modified to increase cell permeability as compared to wild type sarcin.

44E. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is modified to increase cell permeability as compared to the targeting molecule alone.

44F. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is modified to increase cell permeability as compared to the modified sarcin molecule alone.

45A. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein has increased cell retention as compared to wild type sarcin.

45B. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein has increased cell retention as compared to the targeting molecule alone.

45C. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein has increased cell retention as compared to the modified sarcin molecule alone.

45D. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is modified to increase cell retention as compared to wild type sarcin.

45E. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is modified to increase cell retention as compared to the targeting molecule alone.

45F. The ribotoxin fusion protein of embodiment 1 wherein the fusion protein is modified to increase cell retention as compared to the modified sarcin molecule alone.

47. The modified sarcin molecule of embodiment 46 wherein the expression system is an expression system or a expression system.

