---

title: Method for transmitting notification information and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method in an electronic device is provided. The method includes identifying an output characteristic of at least one peripheral device, converting or reconfiguring output information of an event generated by at least one application program based on the identified output characteristic, and transmitting the converted or reconfigured output information of the event to the at least one peripheral device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451100&OS=09451100&RS=09451100
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09451100
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140819
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Aug. 28 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2013 0102720 and a Korean patent application filed on Sep. 3 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2013 0105729 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for transmitting notification information and an electronic device thereof.

Due to the development of information communication technology and semiconductor technology various electronic devices are developing into multimedia devices providing various multimedia services. For example the electronic devices provide various multimedia services such as messenger services broadcasting services wireless internet services camera services and music playback services.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

A user of an electronic device requires more various services. Accordingly the electronic device requires services for satisfying user s various demands.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a device and method for transmitting notification information to a peripheral device from an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a device and method for converting or reconfiguring notification information based on the output characteristic of a peripheral device and transmitting the notification information to a corresponding peripheral device in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a device and method for recognizing an application program including a notification event characteristic as a virtual device in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a device and method for recognizing an application program generating a notification event as a virtual device in an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to a device and method for determining which peripheral device notification information is to be transmitted based on connection information with a peripheral device in an electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an operating method of an electronic device is provided. The operating method includes identifying an output characteristic of at least one peripheral device converting or reconfiguring output information of an event generated by at least one application program based on the identified output characteristic of the at least one peripheral device and transmitting the converted or reconfigured output information of the event to the at least one peripheral device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is included. The electronic device includes a memory configured to store at least one application program and a notification providing module configured to identify an output characteristic of at least one peripheral device to convert or reconfigure output information of an event generated by at least one application program among application programs stored in the memory based on the identified output characteristic of the at least one peripheral device and to transmit the converted or reconfigured output information of the event to the at least one peripheral device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is included. The electronic device includes a memory configured to store at least one application program and a processor wherein the processor is configured to identity an output characteristic of at least one peripheral device to convert or reconfigure output information of an event generated by at least one application program among application programs stored in the memory based on the identified output characteristic of the at least one peripheral device and to transmit the converted or reconfigured output information of the event to the at least one peripheral device.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to a method for transmitting notification information from an electronic device. Hereinafter an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include at least one of smart phones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones e book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs MP3 players mobile medical equipment cameras wearable devices electronic watches wrist watches refrigerators air conditioners vacuum cleaners artificial intelligence robots televisions TVs digital versatile disc DVD players audios ovens microwaves washing machines air purifiers medical devices e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT camcorders and ultrasonic devices navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV electronic dictionaries automotive infotainment devices marine electronic equipment e.g. marine navigation systems and gyro compasses avionics equipment security equipment camcorders game consoles furniture part of a building structure including an electronic device electronic boards electronic signature input devices projectors and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be any combination of the foregoing devices. In addition it will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing devices.

Hereinafter a peripheral device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include at least one other electronic device connectible to an electronic device. For example the peripheral device may include external electronic device such as electronic watches electronic glasses.

Referring to the electronic device may be connected to at least one peripheral device through wire link or wireless link. For example the electronic device may be connected to the peripheral device such as a printer a camera an audio player e.g. a stereo system a TV an electronic watch and or the like through a short range communication network and or a short range communication connection.

When a notification event occurs by at least one application program or installed in the electronic device the electronic device may transmit notification event information generated by the application program or to at least one peripheral device . At this point the electronic device may convert or reconfigure the notification event information based on the output characteristic of the peripheral device and then may transmit the notification event information to the corresponding peripheral device . The output characteristic of the peripheral device may include an output method for delivering information e.g. auditory information using a speaker visual information using a display unit and a luminous body and tactile information by vibration to a user from the peripheral device .

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a notification providing module a memory an input module a display module a communication module and or the like.

The bus may connect components included in the electronic device each other and may control communication between components included in the electronic device .

The processor may control the electronic device to provide various services. For example the processor may interpret a command received from the above other components included in the electronic device e.g. the memory the input module the display module the communication module and or the like through the bus and may perform operations and data processing in response to the interpreted command.

The processor may perform a control to provide various multimedia services by executing at least one program stored in the memory . For example the processor may set an application program including a notification event characteristic as a virtual device by executing a device management application included in the application of the memory . At this point the processor may execute the device management application included in the application through the device management manager of the middleware and may then set it as a virtual device.

A notification providing module may control notification event information of the virtual device to be transmitted to at least one peripheral device. For example the notification providing module may execute a notification providing application included in the application of the memory and may convert notification event information provided from a virtual device according to the output characteristic of a peripheral device and may perform a control to transmit the notification event information e.g. the converted notification event information to a corresponding peripheral device. At this point the processor may execute the notification providing application included in the application through the system providing manager of the middleware and may then control notification event information of a virtual device to be transmitted to at least one peripheral device.

The memory may store commands or data received from or generated by at least one component e.g. the processor the input module the display module or the communication module included in the electronic device . For example the memory may store the output characteristic of a peripheral device connectable to the electronic device and application program information recognized as a virtual device.

The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API an application and or the like. At this point each programming module may include at least one of software firmware and hardware.

The kernel may control or manage at least one system resource used for executing an operation or a function implemented by another programming module e.g. the middleware the API the application and or the like . Additionally the kernel may provide an interface for accessing an individual component of the electronic device among the middleware the API the application and or the like to control or manage the individual component. The system resource may include at least one of the bus the processor the memory and or the like.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary role for exchanging data between the API or the application and the kernel through communication. The middleware may perform load balancing for work requests received from at least one application .

The middleware may provide functions through the API to efficiently use a limited system resource in the electronic device . Additionally the middleware may include a plurality of pre implemented modules for providing functions that the application commonly requires.

The API may include an interface for allowing the application to control functions provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface of function for file control window control image processing text control and or the like.

The input module may transmit instructions or data generated by a user selection to the processor or the memory through the bus .

The communication unit may connect a communication between at least one other electronic device e.g. electronic device electronic device server and or the like or at least one peripheral device and the electronic device . For example the communication unit may support a short range communication protocol e.g. wireless fidelity Wi Fi bluetooth BT near field communication NFC WiFi Direct infrared data association IrDA communication and or the like or a network communication e.g. internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network plain old telephone service POTS and or the like . At this point a communication protocol for example a short range communication protocol a network communication protocol and a wired communication protocol may be supported by the middleware or the API of the memory . The other electronic device and or electronic device as a peripheral device of the electronic device may include a device having the same type as the electronic device or a different type than the electronic device . The electronic device may be connected to another electronic device e.g. electronic device electronic device server and or the like through the network and or through a direct connection.

Referring to the communication protocol may include a device discovery protocol a capability exchange protocol a network protocol and an application protocol .

The device discovery protocol may include a protocol for detecting or connect to one or more external electronic device that may be communicated with the electronic device . For example a first electronic device e.g. electronic device may detect at least one second electronic device as an electronic device that may be communicated with first electronic device . The detection may be performed using device discovery protocol via one or more communication methods e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth or USB available the first electronic device . At this point the first electronic device may identify at least one second electronic device by using the device discovery protocol and may store identification information on at least one second electronic device in the memory . Additionally the first electronic device may connect a communication with at least one second electronic device by using the device discovery protocol .

The device discovery protocol may include a protocol for mutual authentication between a plurality of electronic devices. For example the first electronic device may perform authentication with at least one second electronic device by using the device discovery protocol .

The capability exchange protocol may include a protocol for exchanging information associated with functionalities of services that may be supported by at least one of electronic device or electronic device . For example first electronic device and second electronic device may exchange information associated functionalities of services that may be supported by the respective devices. The information that may be exchanged may include for example identification information that identifies a specific service that is supported by either first electronic device or second electronic device or both. When first electronic device receives the identification information that identifies the specific service first electronic device may based on the received identification information determine whether it may support the specific service identified by the identification information.

The network protocol may include a protocol for controlling data flow transmitted and or received between electronic devices that are connected to each other e.g. electronic device and electronic device . The data transmitted and or received may be data associated with services that are being provided by the electronic devices. For example at least one of first electronic device or second electronic device may use network protocol to perform for example at least one of error control or data quality control. Additionally or alternatively network protocol may determine a transmission format for data transmitted and received between first electronic device and second electronic device . Also at least one of first electronic device or second electronic device may perform session management e.g. establish a session or terminate a session associated with exchanging data between each other using network protocol .

The application protocol may include a protocol for providing process or information to exchange data associated with one or more services provided to an external electronic device. For example first electronic device e.g. electronic device may provide one or more services to electronic device using application protocol .

Referring to the programming module includes a kernel a middleware an API an application and or the like. The programming unit may be stored in the memory of the electronic device shown in .

The programming module may include an operating system OS controlling a resource relating to the electronic device or various applications running on the OS. For example the OS may include at least one of Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada and or the like.

The system resource manager may perform the control allocation and or retrieval of a system resource. For example the system resource manager may include at least one of a processor management unit a memory management unit and a file system management unit.

The device driver may perform an operation implemented by another component e.g. the middleware the API or the application of the programming module or an operation for controlling a system resource used for executing a function. For example the device driver may include at least one of a display driver a camera a Bluetooth driver a sharing memory driver a USB driver a keypad drive a wireless LAN driver an audio driver an Inter Process Communication IPC driver and or the like.

The middleware may include a plurality of pre implemented modules for providing functions that the application commonly requires and or the like. Additionally the middleware may provide functions through the API to allow the application to efficiently use a limited system resource in an electronic device. For example the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager a security manager a system providing manager a device management manager and or the like.

The runtime library may include a library module that a compiler uses to add a new function through programming language while the application is executed. For example the runtime library may perform functions for input output memory management an arithmetic function and or the like.

The multimedia manager may determine a format necessary for the playback of various media files. Additionally the multimedia manager may perform encoding or decoding on a media file by using codec proper for a format necessary for the playback of media files.

The resource manager may manage a resource for source code memory or storage space of at least one application among the applications .

The power manager may manage a battery or power in operation with the basic input output system BIOS and may provide power information necessary for an operation.

The database manager may perform a management operation to generate search or change a database used for at least one application among the applications .

The package manager may manage the installation or update of an application distributed in a package file format.

The notification manager may display or notify events such as arrival messages appointments and proximity alerts in a manner that is not disruptive to a user.

The graphic manager may manage an effect to be provided to a user or a user interface relating thereto. The security manager may provide a general security function necessary for system security or user authentication.

The device management manager may add at least one application including a notification event characteristic among the applications to a notification setting list. The device management manager may execute a device management application included in the application and may add at least one application including a notification event characteristic. At this point the device management manager may recognize an application included in a notification setting list as a virtual device. For example when a notification event occurs by at least one application among the applications the device management manager may add the at least one application generating the notification event to the notification setting list. Additionally the device management manager may add a notification event generated by an application program to the notification event list of a corresponding application program. As another example the device management manager may add at least one application including notification information among applications installed in the applications to a notification setting list.

The system providing manager may transmit notification event information to at least one peripheral device connected communication link. When the notification event occurrence information of the application included in the notification setting list is received from the notification manager the system providing manager may transmit notification event information to at least one peripheral device by executing the notification providing application of the application . For example in response to occurrence of a notification event by an application the system providing manager may transmit notification event information to at least one peripheral device and or another electronic device. At this point the system providing manager may convert or reconfigure a notification event characteristic according to the output characteristic of a peripheral device to which notification event information is to be transmitted and then may transmit the notification event to a corresponding peripheral device. For example when a notification event occurs the system providing manager may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information to the electronic device among at least one communication link connected peripheral device as a peripheral device to which notification event information is to be transmitted. At this point the system providing manager may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information during a preceding reference time interval from the time at which a notification event occurs as a peripheral device to which notification event information is to be transmitted.

If the electronic device provides voice or video call service the middleware may further include a call manager for managing the voice or video call service of the electronic device .

The middleware may generate and use a new middleware module through various function combinations of the above mentioned internal component modules. The middleware may provide modules specified according to types of an OS so as to provide distinctive functions. Additionally the middleware may dynamically delete some existing components or add new components. Accordingly some components listed in various embodiments of the present disclosure may be omitted other components are added or components having different names but performing similar functions may be substituted.

The API as a set of API programming functions may be provided with a different configuration according an OS.

The application may include at least one of preload application and third party application. For example the application may include a health application for example an exercise measurement application and a blood sugar measurement application an SMS MMS application an environmental application for example a pressure or temperature information providing application an alarm application an e mail application a calendar application a notification providing application and a device management application .

The device management application may include a function for adding at least one application including a notification event characteristic included in the application to a notification setting list.

The notification providing application may include a function for transmitting notification event occurrence information of an application included in a notification setting list to at least one peripheral device connected communication link. At this point the notification providing application may convert or reconfigure a notification event characteristic according to an output characteristic of a peripheral device to which notification event information is transmitted and then may transmit it to a corresponding peripheral device.

According to the above mentioned embodiment the electronic device may set a virtual device by using the processor and may then convert or reconfigure notification event information of a virtual device by using the notification providing module according to an output characteristic of at least one peripheral device to transmit it.

According to another embodiment the electronic device may set a virtual device by using the processor and may then convert or reconfigure notification event information of a virtual device according to an output characteristic of at least one peripheral device to transmit it. In this case the processor may be configured as shown in .

Referring to the processor may include a virtual device generation unit a notification transmission control unit and or the like.

The virtual device generation unit may add at least one application including a notification event characteristic among the applications installed in the electronic device to a notification setting list. The virtual device generation unit may add at least one application including a notification event characteristic to a notification setting list using the device management manager included in the middleware . The virtual device generation unit may recognize an application program included in a notification setting list as a virtual device. For example when a notification event occurs by at least one application program among application programs installed in the electronic device the virtual device generation unit may add the at least one application program generating the notification event to the notification setting list. Additionally the virtual device generation unit may add a notification event generated by an application program to the notification event list of a corresponding application program. As another example the virtual device generation unit may add at least one application program including notification information among application programs installed in the electronic device to a notification setting list.

When a notification event occurs by an application program included notification setting list the notification transmission control unit may transmit notification event information to at least one peripheral device connected communication link. For example in response to the occurrence of a notification event the notification transmission control unit may transmit notification event information to at least one communication link connected peripheral device and or another electronic device. At this point when the notification event occurrence information of the application included in the notification setting list is received from the notification manager of the middleware the notification transmission control unit may transmit notification event information to at least one peripheral device by using the system providing manager of the middleware . The notification transmission control unit may convert or reconfigure a notification event characteristic according to the output characteristic of a peripheral device to which notification event information is to be transmitted and then may transmit the notification event characteristic to a corresponding peripheral device. For example when a notification event occurs the notification transmission control unit may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information to the electronic device among at least one peripheral device as a peripheral device to which notification event information is to be transmitted. The notification transmission control unit may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information during a preceding reference time interval from the time at which a notification event occurs as a peripheral device to which notification event information is to be transmitted.

In the description below the electronic device may add a first application program to a notification setting list by using the device management manager of the middleware shown in .

Referring to at operation the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by the first application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. For example the electronic device may determine whether a message is received through a messenger application program. As another example the electronic device may determine whether an alarm occurs by an alarm application program. As another example the electronic device may determine whether a call reception occurs by a communication application program. As another example the electronic device may determine whether an alert notification such as low battery occurs through a power control application program. The message may include at least one of text messages multimedia messages emails instant messages and or the like.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event does not occur by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. As another example the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may continue to poll for occurrence of the notification event by the first application program.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event occurs by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether the first application program is included in the notification setting list. For example the electronic device may determine whether the first application program is recognized as a virtual device. As an example in response to the notification event occurring by the first application program the electronic device may determine whether the first application program is included in the notification setting list.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program is included in the notification setting list at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation and then may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device.

In contrast if the electronic device determines that the first application program is not included in the notification setting list at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list. For example the electronic device may recognize the first application program as a virtual device generating a notification event. For example when the first application program includes notification information the electronic device may display a notification setting screen for determining whether to add the first application program to the notification setting list on the display module . Thereafter when a user accepts that the notification setting list addition of the first application program based on a notification setting screen the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list. Moreover when a user does not accept that the notification setting list addition of the first application program based on a notification setting screen the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device.

As mentioned above when the first application program is added to the notification setting list the electronic device may recognize a notification event generated by the first application program as a notification event generated by a virtual device.

In the description below the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list by using the device management manager of the middleware shown in .

Referring to at operation the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by the first application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. For example the electronic device may determine whether a message is received through a messenger application program. As another example the electronic device may determine whether an alarm occurs by an alarm application program. As another example the electronic device may determine whether a call reception occurs by a communication application program. As another example the electronic device may determine whether an alert notification such as low battery occurs through a power control application program. The message may include at least one of text messages multimedia messages emails instant messages and or the like.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event does not occur by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. As another example the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may continue to poll for occurrence of the notification event by the first application program.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event occurs by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether the first application program is included in the notification setting list. For example in response to the occurrence of the notification event by the first application program the electronic device may determine whether the first application program is included in the notification setting list. For example the electronic device may determine whether the first application program is recognized as a virtual device.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program is not included in the notification setting list at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list. For example the electronic device may recognize the first application program as a virtual device generating a notification event. For example the electronic device may display a notification setting screen for determining whether to add the first application program to the notification setting list on the display module . Thereafter when a user accepts that the notification setting list addition of the first application program based on a notification setting screen the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list. Moreover when a user does not accept that the notification setting list addition of the first application program based on a notification setting screen the electronic device may proceed to operation and then may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. The electronic device may add a notification event generated by the first application program added to the notification setting list to the notification event list.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program is included in the notification setting list at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine a characteristic of a notification event generated by the first application program. For example the electronic device may determine the type of a notification event generated by the first application program.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device may determine whether the notification event generated at operation is included in the notification event list of the first application program.

If the electronic device determines that the notification event generated at operation is included in the notification event list of the first application program at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation and then may determine whether a notification event occurs by the first application program among application programs installed in the electronic device.

In contrast if the electronic device determines that the notification event generated at operation is not included in the notification event list of the first application program at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may add the notification event generated in operation to the notification event list of the first application program.

In the description below the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list by using the device management manager of the middleware shown in .

Referring to at operation the electronic device determines whether the first application program is installed.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program is not installed at operation then the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether another application program is installed in the electronic device. As another example the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may continue to poll for a determination that the first application program is installed.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program is installed at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether the first application program includes notification information. For example an application program developer may add notification information indicating that the notification event occurrence of the application program is possible to the application program. Accordingly the electronic device may determine whether the first application program includes notification information. The notification information may include at least one of information on whether the notification event occurrence of the first application program is possible and a possible notification event type in the first application program.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program does not include notification information at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether another application program is installed.

If the electronic device determines that the first application program includes the notification information at operation the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list in operation . For example the electronic device may recognize the first application program as a virtual device generating a notification event. For example when the first application program includes notification information the electronic device may display a notification setting screen for determining whether to add the first application program to the notification setting list on the display module . Thereafter when a user accepts that the notification setting list addition of the first application program based on a notification setting screen the electronic device may add the first application program to the notification setting list. Moreover when a user does not accept that the notification setting list addition of the first application program based on a notification setting screen the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether another application program is installed.

In the above mentioned various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may add an application program generated by a notification event to the notification setting list and then may recognize the application program as a virtual device.

Additionally the electronic device may selectively deactivate the application program added to the notification setting list as shown in .

Referring to in response to occurrence of a source list management event the electronic device may display a source list of notification service on the display module . Thereafter the electronic device may search the source list according to the selection of a refresh icon and then may update the source list .

As an example in response to selection of an electronic device My Galaxy Note2 from the source list as shown with reference to reference numeral the electronic device may display an application program included in a notification setting list on the display module . For example the electronic device may display application program list recognized as a virtual device on the display module . The electronic device may deactivate at least one application program among application programs included in a notification setting list according to user input information. For example when the selection of a message application program is released according to user input information the electronic device may deactivate the message application program in the notification setting list. In this case the electronic device may transmit notification event information generated by the message application program to a peripheral device.

Referring to the electronic device may display a list of types of notifications that may be selected for a corresponding device. For example as illustrated with reference to reference numeral the electronic device may display a notifications manager screen for a washer dryer. For example in response to selection of a washer dryer from the source list the electronic device may display a notification setting list for the washer dryer. The notification setting list may include a list of notification types and or application programs that may be used to communicate with the selected device e.g. the washer dryer . As illustrated in the notification setting list may include a first messenger a message an alarm and an email. The notification setting list may indicate the communication methods or means by which the electronic device provides notifications in relation to the selected device e.g. the washer dryer according to the example illustrated in according to user selection. The notification setting list may provide a list of application programs from which a user may select a subset of application programs that may be used to provide notifications in relation to the selected device.

Referring to at operation the electronic device may determine a notification event occurrence by an application program included in the notification setting list. For example the electronic device may determine a notification event generated by an application program recognized as a virtual device.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device may update notification event information according to the output characteristic of a notification transmission device. For example when a smart watch is recognized as a notification transmission device for transmitting notification event information according to a message reception the electronic device may update the notification event information according to a message reception based on output information from the smart watch. In more detail the electronic device may update notification event information according to a message reception so as to output a message reception from the smart watch as at least one of auditory information visual information smell information and or tactile information according to output information of the smart watch. The notification transmission device may include at least one peripheral device transmitting notification event information among peripheral devices connected to the electronic device.

After updating the notification event information at operation the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may transmit the notification event information updated to the notification transmission device.

According to the above mentioned embodiment the electronic device may update notification event information according to an output characteristic of a notification transmission device. For example while performing a communication link connection with a notification transmission device for example pairing the electronic device may check an output characteristic of the notification transmission device based on control information provided from the notification transmission device. Here the control information may include a profile of the notification transmission device. As another example the electronic device may receive output characteristic information of a corresponding notification transmission device by using an additional control message from the notification transmission device. As another example the electronic device may receive output characteristic information of a notification transmission device connected to the electronic device from an output characteristic management server.

Referring to at operation the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by a first application program included in the notification setting list. If a notification event occurs by the first application program not included in the notification setting list the electronic device as shown in may add the first application program to the notification setting list and may recognize that a notification event occurs by the application program included in the notification setting list.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event does not occur by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. As another example the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may continue to poll for occurrence of the notification event by the first application program.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event occurs by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine a notification transmission device. For example in response to a notification event the electronic device may determine a notification transmission device e.g. with which to transmit information relating to the notification event . For example the electronic device may determine at least one peripheral device connected communication link as a notification transmission device. As another example the electronic device may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information to the electronic device among at least one peripheral device as a notification transmission device. The electronic device may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information during a preceding reference time interval from the time at which a notification event occurs as a notification transmission device.

After determining the notification transmission device at operation the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may update notification event information according to the output characteristic of the notification transmission device. For example when a smart bulb is recognized as a notification transmission device for transmitting notification event information according to a call reception the electronic device may update the notification event information according to the call reception based on output information from the smart bulb. In more detail the electronic device may update notification event information according to a call reception so as to output the call reception from the smart bulb as visual information according to output information of the smart bulb.

After updating the notification event information at operation the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may transmit the notification event information updated to the notification transmission device.

Referring to at operation the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by a first application program included in the notification setting list. If a notification event occurs by the first application program not included in the notification setting list the electronic device as shown in may add the first application program to the notification setting list and then may recognize that a notification event occurs by the application program included in the notification setting list.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event does not occur by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether a notification event occurs by another application program among application programs installed in the electronic device. As another example the electronic device may return to operation at which the electronic device may continue to poll for occurrence of the notification event by the first application program.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event occurs by the first application program at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether the notification event is transmittable. For example in response to a notification event the electronic device may determine whether the notification event and or information relating thereto may be transmitted. For example the electronic device may limit notification event information transmission for at least one notification event among notification events that may occur in the first application program. Accordingly the electronic device may determine whether the notification event information transmission of the notification event occurring at operation is limited. In more detail the electronic device may limit the notification event information transmission for a message provided from at least one the other electronic device in a message application program. Accordingly in the case that a message is received through a messenger application program the electronic device may determine whether the message is received from the other electronic device limiting the notification event information transmission.

If the electronic device determines that a notification event cannot be transmitted at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine whether the notification event occurs by an application program included in the notification setting list.

In contrast if the electronic device determines that the notification event can be transmitted at then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may determine the notification transmission device. For example the electronic device may determine at least one peripheral device connected communication link as a notification transmission device. As another example the electronic device may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information to the electronic device among at least one peripheral device as a notification transmission device. The electronic device may determine at least one peripheral device transmitting user input information during a preceding reference time interval from the time at which a notification event occurs as a notification transmission device.

After determining the notification transmission device at operation the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may update notification event information according to the output characteristic of the notification transmission device. For example when a smart TV is recognized as a notification transmission device for transmitting notification event information according to a message reception the electronic device may update the notification event information according to a message reception based on output information from the smart TV. In more detail the electronic device may update notification event information according to a message reception so as to output a message reception from the smart TV as at least one of auditory information and visual information according to output information of the smart TV.

After updating the notification event information at operation the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may transmit the updated notification event information to the notification transmission device.

As mentioned above the electronic device may update notification event information based on the output characteristic of a notification transmission device. At this point the electronic device may selectively limit the output characteristic of a notification transmission device according to user input information as shown in .

Referring to when a notification transmission device management event occurs the electronic device may display a notification transmission device list including a speaker a TV a smart bulb and a smart watch on the display module . At this point the electronic device may search the device list according to the selection of a refresh icon and then may update the device list .

Referring to when the smart bulb is selected from the device list the electronic device may display visual information as the output characteristic of the smart bulb on the display module . As an example in response to selection of the smart bulb from the device list the electronic device may display visual information as the output characteristic of the smart bulb .

Referring to when the smart watch is selected from the device list the electronic device may display auditory information visual information and tactile information as the output characteristic of the smart watch on the display module . As an example in response to selection of the smart watch from the device list the electronic device may display the output characteristic of the smart watch . The electronic device may limit the output characteristic of the smart watch which is considered during notification event information update according to user input information. The user may select the output characteristics to be applied in relation to the corresponding device e.g. the smart watch .

Referring to the electronic device may deactivate the auditory information among the output characteristics of the smart watch according to user input information as shown in . In this case the electronic device may recognize that the smart watch includes the output characteristics of the visual information and the tactile information. In response to user selection of characteristics to be applied in relation to the corresponding device the electronic device may display the output characteristics that are activated and or deactivated. For example as illustrated in the output characteristics of the visual information and the tactile information are illustrated as active and the output characteristics of the auditory information is illustrated as deactivated.

As mentioned above the electronic device may transmit updated notification event information to a corresponding notification transmission device based on the output characteristic of a notification transmission device. Accordingly the notification transmission device may output notification event occurrence information according to the notification event information provided from the electronic device so as to allow a user to determine occurrence of a notification event and or a type of notification event that occurred. For example when the electronic device updates notification event information for message reception based on the output characteristic of a TV and transmits the notification event information the TV may output at least one of a message reception arrival notification screen and a message reception notification sound according to the notification event information provided from the electronic device. As another example when the electronic device updates notification event information for call reception based on the output characteristic of a smart watch and transmits the notification event information the smart watch may output at least one of a call reception arrival notification screen and message reception notification sound and vibration according to the notification event information provided from the electronic device.

It will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure according to the claims and description in the specification can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

Any such software may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform a method of the present disclosure.

Any such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example random access memory RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a compact disk CD DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are various embodiments of non transitory machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Accordingly various embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a non transitory machine readable storage storing such a program. Still further such programs may be conveyed electronically via any medium such as a communication signal carried over a wired or wireless connection and various embodiments suitably encompass the same.

As mentioned above the electronic device updates notification event information generated by an application program according to the output characteristic of a peripheral device and transmits it to a corresponding peripheral device so that a user of the electronic device may easily recognize notification information occurring in the electronic device.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

