---

title: Automated network testing using in-progress call detail records
abstract: A method provides automated testing of a network. The method comprises controlling an originating mobile communication device by a server and commanding origination of a call from the originating mobile communication device to a destination communication device. The call is associated with a raw call detail record that is unprocessed. The raw call detail record is monitored on a raw call detail record storage. The method also comprises confirming the raw call detail record accounts for origination of the call from the originating mobile communication device. The destination communication device is controlled by the server, and control is confirmed based on a communication log. The method captures the confirmation that the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call and the confirmation that the destination communication device is controlled by the server. Based analysis of the captured confirmations, a baseline metric of expected test results is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232420&OS=09232420&RS=09232420
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09232420
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140221
---
Communication devices are being used to influence societal norms and further economic developments across the globe. Yet the devices themselves must rely on a stable and functional network infrastructure that provides service of network calls in varying scenarios. Despite providing a range of call features for network use network subscribers may discover that a particular sequence of calls yields a failure or service error of network functionality. But prior to accessing and understanding the call sequence leading up to the failure a communication service provider may have to wait for information about a call sequence to be compiled and processed thereby increasing the time of identifying and resolving the issue. Experiencing repeated failures can frustrate subscribers because of a perception that they are paying for a service that the communication service provider is unable to effectively provide. Because customers may readily switch communication service providers quickly minimizing and preventing user frustration is a concern of network operators.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method of automated testing of a network is disclosed. The method comprises controlling an originating mobile communication device by a server and commanding origination of a call from the originating mobile communication device to a destination communication device. The call is associated with a raw call detail record that is unprocessed. The raw call detail record on the network is monitored on a raw call detail record storage. The method further comprises confirming that the raw call detail record accounts for origination of the call from the originating mobile communication device. The destination communication device is also controlled by the server. The method confirms the destination communication device is controlled by the server based on a communication log of the destination communication device. The method further comprises capturing the confirmation from the raw call detail record storage that the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call and the confirmation from the communication log of the destination communication device that the destination communication device is controlled by the server. Based on analysis of the captured confirmations a baseline metric of expected test results is generated.

Another embodiment of a computer implemented method of automated testing of a network is disclosed. The method comprises activating by a testing application executing on a server a feature action associated with configuration of the network. The feature action comprises using a predefined function. A confirmation is generated of activation of the feature action. Responsive to confirming activation of the feature action the testing application commands origination of a call from the originating communication device while the feature action is activated. The call is associated with a raw call detail record that is an unfinished call detail record. The method further generates a confirmation of origination of the call from the originating communication device while the feature action is activated based on a communication log of the originating communication device. A confirmation is generated that the raw call detail record reflects occurrence of the predefined function of the feature action. Based on the generated confirmations the testing application commands conclusion of the call from the originating communication device.

In an embodiment a system for automated testing of a network is disclosed. The system comprises at least one communication device a raw call detail record storage a test storage a monitor component and a computer. The at least one communication device includes a processor a non transitory memory and a communication application stored in the non transitory memory that when executed by the processor generates a communication log associated with the communication device. The communication device also includes a communication module that communicatively couples the communication device with a computer. The communication device further includes a control interface module that when executed by the processor is configured to control functionality of the communication device. Both the test storage and raw call detail record storage include a non transitory memory with the raw call detail record storage comprising a plurality of raw call detail records. The monitor component is configured to access and inspect the raw call detail records. The system also comprises the computer that includes a processor a non transitory memory and a testing application stored in the non transitory memory. When executed by the processor the testing application causes the processor to perform operations comprising controlling the communication device and commanding origination of a call from the communication device. The origination of the call triggers the communication application of the communication device to generate a communication log. The call is associated with both the communication log of the communication device and a raw call detail record.

Continuing with the embodiment the testing application further orders operations comprising monitoring the communication log associated with the call of a communication device. The communication log is generated by the communication application executing on a processor. The application also causes monitoring of the raw call detail record that is in a native state on a raw call detail record storage wherein the raw call detail record is associated with the call. Both the communication log and raw call detail record are confirmed to account for the origination of the call. The application then determines whether the confirmations of the communication log and raw call detail record match an expected result. Responsive to a determination that the confirmations of the communication log and raw call detail record match the expected result the application triggers the execution of a predefined function. Responsive to a determination that the confirmations of the communication log and raw call detail record do not match the expected result the application commands termination of the call from the mobile communication device. Additionally the determinations are logged in a test storage.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

In the modern marketplace retention and addition of customers is a priority for communication service providers. When a customer experiences difficulties in operating a communication device or using an offered service the customer may not take the time to alert the provider of the problem. Thus a provider may attempt to identify issues thereby mitigating and resolving problems before they are experienced by the customer. Yet as hardware and software evolve identifying anomalous behavior of network services can be difficult particularly if a problem occurs only when a particular sequence of network functions is engaged. Upon adding factors like call features types of communication devices and types of network connections the scenarios and sequences in which problems may occur quickly increase. Thus the present disclosure teaches a system and method for the identification and mitigation of network errors.

The present disclosure teaches automated network testing of network and test device functionality by using the synergistic results of checking both in progress call detail records raw call detail records generated by the network and at least one endpoint communication log generated by a test device while the test is ongoing. Additionally controlling the test device i.e. one of the communication devices used in the test and the activation of a sequence of network features i.e. actions associated with configuration of the network that allows a predefined function to take place like activating three way calling on the network that allows multiple test devices to communicate during a call allows for alternating test steps dependent on analysis while the test call is occurring.

For example a provider may wish to test the functionality of a three way voice call using a first mobile communication device that engages with a second mobile device and a landline. A provider may discover a problem with the three way voice call when a calling party i.e. the first mobile communication device first connects with the second mobile device and then the landline. Because of in call analysis the provider may change the call sequence and discover that a three way voice call successfully engages if the calling party first connects with the landline and then connects with the second mobile device. In diagnosing whether the network and or each test device i.e. the first and second mobile communication devices and landline is functioning correctly the provider may check associated test device communication logs and or in progress call detail records related to the performed function. Yet had the provider tried to use call detail records i.e. call records used by providers to determine how a customer is billed access to the call detail records may not be available for hours or even days due to a process called mediation. An example of a mediation process may be one of processing and transforming information about a call into a form more readily understandable by a customer.

The present disclosure teaches a testing application obtaining and confirming test device communication activity by going to a raw call detail record storage e.g. a network element like a switch where raw call detail records are created and accessing the raw call detail record during the test call. Similarly the testing application may obtain access to communication logs created by a test device and compares the information from the communication logs with the raw call detail records before waiting for the mediation process. Comparison may yield a test success or failure that may be determined by comparing test results e.g. information from communication logs and or raw call detail records to expected results and or a baseline metric. Test success failure may be analyzed at each step of the call flow and may depend in part on an in progress call detail record i.e. a raw call detail record that is being created through the addition of information having an expected state an expected form and or expected values i.e. matching expected results or baseline . Mere observation and confirmation of test success or failure at call endpoints i.e. only upon initiation of the test and after the test is finished requires a time delay and does not provide detail for a provider to know where an error occurs during the test. The identification comparison and confirmation of test information using in progress call detail records and test device communication logs helps facilitate a time efficient resolution of problematic network functions and services by identifying the point and stage of an error.

By way of analogy consider an author who sits down to write a novel and a person who avidly reads the published novels of the author. Typically the avid reader must wait until the author finishes writing editing and publishing the novel before she may read and understand its contents while also determining if the author made an error. This is analogous to a mediation process in which access to communication activity is readily available after processing and transformation of the raw call detail record that is the raw unprocessed information about a call. Continuing with the analogy consider an avid reader who does not wait but instead makes contact with the author gains access to the writings prior to editing or publication and begins reading the novel s transcript as the author is writing it or before the novel is ready for presentation to the public. This allows the avid reader to know if an error occurred at the stage of the author editor or the printer. Similarly in an embodiment a provider uses a testing application to monitor verify and confirm communication activity of a test device by accessing a raw call detail record by going to its source while it is being created i.e. in progress and or shortly thereafter without waiting for a mediation process and without altering the source contents. Thus instead of simply knowing an error occurred the provider may understand when how and the circumstances surrounding an error s occurrence.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a plurality of mobile communication devices . The mobile communication device may comprise a communication module a control interface module a processor a memory and one or more communication applications . The mobile communication device may be configured to use the communication module to establish a wireless communicative link with a base transceiver station BTS where the base transceiver station may provide communications connectivity of the mobile communication devices to a network . The network may comprise any combination of private and or public networks. In some embodiments the network may be a comprise a virtual network that is a simulated network used in a laboratory setting to recreate and or mimic the functionality of real world network actions. For example a communication service provider may want to perform tests on a certain subset of the network but does not want to impede network traffic. The test supervisor may simulate the network or subsets therein in a laboratory setting so as to not disrupt the functionality of the live network .

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices which may be connected with any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide radio communication links to the mobile communication devices thus providing access to the network and other devices and systems coupled to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The mobile communication device may be any of a mobile phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wireless enabled computer or other mobile communication device . In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components.

In some embodiments a communication module may include a plurality of forms and or functions of a network connectivity device described hereafter in . For example a communication module may include a radio transceiver and a universal serial port for communicatively coupling the mobile communication device with the network and a computer . The communication module may communicate with the base transceiver station using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. In some embodiments the communication module may be configured to distinguish and report various communicative states or activities between the mobile communication device and the radio access network. For example the communication module may be configured to report when a call from a first mobile communication device is originating and when the call is answered by another second communication device.

The control interface module may comprise any of an application bridge daemon or other interface that may expose application programming interfaces APIs for controlling and commanding functions from the mobile communication device . In some embodiments the control interface module may comprise a client program and or a daemon background process. In some contexts the control interface module may be configured to originate and or initiate a call from the mobile communication device when instructions are given via an API. For example a testing application may interact with a server interface module on a computer the testing application directs the mobile communication device to start or stop a call by communicatively interacting with APIs of the control interface module thereby controlling the functionality of the mobile communication device . Such functionality may include the testing application ordering the mobile communication device to originate a voice call via the radio access network. The control interface module may generate communication logs and or provide access to communication activity to applications such as testing application and or communication applications . In an embodiment the control interface module may access logs generated by a communication application . In some embodiments the control interface module may execute a client process that receives and or executes commands for controlling the device from another application and or process such as the testing application and or the server interface module . It is understood that communication logs may be generated upon a triggering event such as a mobile communication device and or communication device engaging in a call.

The control interface module may be standard software delivered by an original equipment manufacturer OEM who assembles the mobile communication device . In some contexts the control interface module may be stored as firmware or software in the non transitory memory of the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the testing application may access the communication logs of the mobile communication device and or the communication device and store the communication logs or other information corresponding to the logs in a storage e.g. test storage . Alternatively the testing application may communicate with a communication application to generate communication logs by capturing information on the mobile communication device and or communication device and parsing the captured information for analysis and storage. In an embodiment parsed information may be compared and or analyzed by an application e.g. testing application with information obtained from at least one raw call detail record on a raw call detail record storage . Alternatively in some embodiments parsed information may be obtained directly from a communication device e.g. and or without referencing a communication log by an application e.g. testing application accessing a display of a mobile communication device and parsing displayed information e.g. call connection status time of call etc. for comparison and analysis.

In some embodiments references to a processor e.g. processor may include but is not limited to a plurality of forms described hereafter such as digital signal processor and processor . In some contexts references to memory e.g. memory may be referred to as non transitory computer readable medium non transitory memory or a computer readable storage media. The memory may include forms described hereafter in such as secondary storage ROM and or RAM .

The communication applications may comprise a voice communication application a data communication application a web browser application an email application a short message system SMS or texting application a multimedia message system MMS application and other communication applications. The communication applications may be standard communication applications that are delivered by an original equipment manufacturer OEM who assembles the mobile communication device . The communication applications may be stored as firmware or software in a storage of the mobile communication device . The communication applications may expose application programming interfaces APIs accessible to other applications for example to the control interface module to provide wireless communication functionality to the other applications such as testing application .

The system may also comprise a plurality of communication devices . A communication device may include any of a mobile communication device a landline communication device digital telephones videophones or voice over internet protocol VOIP telephone. It is understood that a landline communication device may take the form of a telephone that is configured to use a solid medium telephone line for communicative transmission including both hard wired and or cordless wireless devices. In some contexts the communication module may include the possible forms and or functions of communication module but the communication modules and need not be the same. For example the communication module of the mobile communication device may comprise a radio transceiver for wireless communicative link with the network while the communication module of the communication device comprises a modem for a hardwired communicative link with the network .

In some embodiments the communication module may comprise a standalone module that is communicatively coupled to the communication device . The communication module may include a separate processor and or storage and or may interact with a remote processor and or storage accessible via the network or via direct connection. The communication module may execute logic that is configured to listen monitor and detect communicative transmissions between the network and the communication device . Alternatively the communication module may be configured to detect and process activities of a communication device such as activities of making or receiving a call with communication device . For example the communication module may be configured to detect when a phone call is placed e.g. by mobile communication device or communication device and when the placed phone call is answered by the called device e.g. communication device or mobile communication device . In some contexts the communication module may associate with the control interface module and or the communications applications to log communicative activities such as the call start call status and end of calls. In an embodiment the communication module may interact with the testing application in communicating information from communication logs associated with the communication device .

In some embodiments the control interface module may include the possible forms and or functions of control interface module . In some contexts the control interface module may be configured to enable a remote device and or application to control originate and or initiate calls from the communication device . For example a testing application may use the server interface module to communicate with the control interface module thereby enabling control and origination of a call from the communication device to the mobile communication device . The control interface module may comprise a client program and or a daemon background process. In some embodiments the control interface module may execute logic as a client process that receives and or executes commands from another application script and or process such as the testing application and or logic executed by the server interface module . In some contexts the control interface module may comprise a standalone module that executes logic for receiving commands to control the communication device . The control interface module may also be communicatively coupled with the communication device while also being accessible via the network .

The communication applications may comprise the form and or functions of the communication application including any of a voice communication application a data communication application a web browser application an email application a short message system SMS or texting application a multimedia message system MMS application and other communication applications. In some contexts the communications applications may not comprise the same forms as the communication application . For example the communication application may include a voice communication applications and a data communications application while the communication application includes only a voice communication application.

It is understood that the communication applications may be standard communication applications that are delivered by an original equipment manufacturer OEM who assembles the communication device . The communication applications may be stored as firmware or software in a storage of and or accessible by the communication device . The communication applications may expose application programming interfaces APIs accessible to other applications and or modules e.g. to the control interface module to provide wireless communication functionality to another application such as testing application .

In an embodiment the system comprises a computer that includes a testing application executable by the processor and may be stored in the non transitory memory or another storage. The computer may also include a server interface module . In some embodiments the computer may be implemented as a network of computer processors such as mainframe computers networked computers and similar types of systems and devices. In some contexts the computer may be a server that a communication service provider uses to access and control any of a mobile communication device a communication device and or an emulated communication device. For example the testing application may set up an emulated object that includes the form and or function of a device including any of a mobile communication device and or a communication device . In some embodiments the computer may interact with the mobile communication device communication device and or emulated communication device by a direct wired connection and or via the network . In some illustrations dashed lines connecting devices or other illustrated elements of a figure such as mobile communication device with computer represent a direct connection between the devices that optionally may be wired in some operation modes for example in a laboratory test environment.

In an embodiment the testing application enables a communication service provider to test at least some of the operations associated with any of the network the radio access network elements or segments thereof and or devices whether physical or emulated . In some embodiments any of the network a designated subset of the network radio access network and or elements thereof may be collectively referred to as the network under test or system under test. In an embodiment the network under test may comprise all of or any subset of the radio access network a core of the network a plurality of mobile communication devices and or communication devices . It is understood that the mobile communication device communication device and or an emulated communication device that is associated with the network under test may be referred to as a test device. An emulated communication device may include a virtual mobile communication device and or virtual communication device.

In an embodiment the testing application may be executed on the computer or on a server accessible via the network . The testing application may comprise computer instruction segments that are configured to communicate with the network under test and or devices connected to the computer . It is understood that the testing application may implement a modular design architecture such that the implementation of various test scenarios is possible. The testing application may be configured to receive information from test devices and or from elements of the network under test. In an embodiment a testing application may receive and or retrieve and or read information about a raw call detail record as the raw call detail record is being created and such information may be used for any of processing manipulation and or storage. In this embodiment the testing application may be used in conjunction with the server interface module for controlling devices such as and may execute background processes on the computer .

The testing application may be configured to command the control of the mobile communication device and or the communication device by interacting with a process of the respective control interface module . The testing application may use the server interface module to setup communicative connections such as by arranging ports on any of the mobile communication device communication device and or emulated device via the network or a direct communicative link. In an embodiment the testing application uses the server interface module to manage connections to devices and to handle commands from applications.

In an embodiment a testing application executes logic for controlling a test device such as the communication device and or the mobile communication device . The testing application may command origination of a call from a test device and the call may trigger generation of at least one communication log. It is understood that a communication log may be a record of communication activities according to a test device whereas a call detail record may be a record of call activities with a test device. In an embodiment the testing application may initiate monitoring of at least one communication log of the test device and a raw call detail record that is associated with the call. In an embodiment the testing application may monitor the communication log by accessing it via the respective communication module of the respective test device . The raw call detail record may exist on a storage e.g. raw CDR storage which may be communicatively accessible via the network as later disclosed herein. The testing application may monitor the raw call detail record to analyze contents for determining if the network under test is functioning as expected. In an embodiment monitoring of at least one raw call detail record may include controlling a monitor component that may command access to the raw call detail record and inspect it.

As later described the testing application may be configured to analyze communication logs and or raw call detail records for determining confirming and comparing information obtained during testing. For example when the computer commands control of a communication device and places a call the testing application may expect that communication logs and or a raw call detail record will reflect occurrence of the placed call. Part of complex call flow behavior in the production environment or in the real world environment of the network may involve making a sequence of modifications of records kept about the in progress call e.g. adding content during creation of raw call detail records communication logs . Accordingly testing the complex call flow behavior may entail determining or verifying that the raw call detail records and or communication logs associated with the subject test call assume the expected state or series of expected states as the call flow progresses. In this embodiment the testing application may refer to expected results that associate with a planned outcome when a call is placed. In an embodiment when information in the communication log and or raw call detail record from the network under test does or does not match expected results the testing application may proceed with alternative steps. It is understood that information may be considered to match or not match an expected result when the analyzed information is within a predefined level of variation set by the testing team. In an embodiment alternative steps may include the testing application triggering execution of a predefined function or commanding termination of the call from the test device. By way of example when a network under test includes testing a conference call between a mobile communication device and a plurality of communication devices the testing application may determine that the communication logs and raw call detail records for each of the respective test devices matches expected results such as the call being placed call being received by the test devices and functioning of multiparty call. Further embodiments of predefined functions are disclosed below herein.

The testing application may be communicatively connected with the server interface module . In an embodiment the server interface module may comprise any of software and or firmware that executes logic to interact with APIs exposed by the control interface modules of the respective mobile communication device and the communication device . Similarly the server interface module may interact with APIs exposed by the monitor component for monitoring raw call detail records . The server interface module may comprise software configured as a server program for communicating with client software and or firmware such as the control interface module executing on a respective mobile communication device and or communication device . It is understood that a server interface module may comprise a command line interface that commands communicative interaction with targeted objects such as any of a monitor component emulated device i.e. a virtual device mobile communication device and or the communication device or components therein.

In some embodiments the testing application may include a graphical user interface GUI and or command line interface CLI that are displayable on a screen that enables selection of a variety of testing scenarios such as calls call sequence feature actions and or predefined functions. In an embodiment a custom test scenario may be implemented such that a specific type of call sequence feature action and or predefined function is tested on the network . In an alternative environment test scenarios may be selected from a pool of possible test scenarios and may be selected at random. It is understood that a call includes any of a voice call data call e.g. a video or data transfer communication short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS utility calls or the like that may be executed on a communication device. It is understood that a utility call may include any of resetting e.g. resetting software or firmware powering up or powering down and or entering commands for communication devices e.g. or physical or emulated . In an embodiment a call sequence may include a call with a communication device and or i.e. physical or emulated a telephone number a server or a specific element of the network . By way of example a call sequence may include any combination of calls between a mobile communication device e.g. a mobile phone a communication device e.g. a landline telephone an emulated device a number e.g. a toll free number or other test devices.

In an embodiment the testing application may execute logic commanding activation of feature actions from a mobile communication device and or communication device where the feature action corresponds with a predefined function. In some contexts the feature action may comprise a specified code and or instruction that when commanded e.g. executed instructions by the test device or other commanding application invokes a sequence of predefined or programmable functions involving the operations of the network under test which may include the radio access network and or the network . Thus an embodiment of activating a feature action can activate a network feature that is a feature action associated with configuration of the network such that a predefined function may occur. In an alternative embodiment a test device may have a device feature such as the ability to display or not display a caller ID and activating a feature action may be directed and or associated with configuration of the test device. However embodiments directed to a particular call sequence using the network will likely activate a feature action associated with the network wherein the predefined function allows for a particular type of test and or call to take place using the network.

For example the feature action commanded from the test device may comprise the code asterisk six nine 69 that is intended to command a predefined function on the network under test here the predefined function is for the test device to place a call to a destination device where the destination device most recently called the test device invoking the feature action. The feature action may be associated with the test device originating the feature action another test device such as a destination landline and or another element of the network under test. In some embodiments the feature action may comprise a command for an element of the network to engage in the predefined function. For example a testing application may command activation of a caller identification feature action e.g. colloquially known as caller ID that uses a predefined function for prompting the mobile communication device to display or not display an identifying phone number when calling a test device.

Examples of predefined functions include but are not limited to any of caller identification visibility call forwarding universal and or programmable call waiting call transferring call hot lining call barring incoming and outgoing multi party calling e.g. three way calling call busy call no answer call block information retrieval call voicemail call path verification dropped call assistance call bill payment wireless number portability data file transfer e.g. FTP HTTP uploads and or downloads SMS MMS message or other custom calls that may include only one party. It is understood that implementation of some feature actions using predefined functions may require provisioning of devices and or elements of the network . It is understood that any number of predefined functions may be combined with calls in a variety of sequences that may be between a plurality of test devices.

For example a testing application may originate a call from a mobile communication device to call two landlines where a feature action is activated that corresponds with the predefined function of a conference call that is intended to engage all three test devices in a multiparty call. Alternatively for example an application may command a feature activation that provisions an element of the network and or a destination mobile communication device with a predefined function of incoming call barring such that when an originating mobile communication device calls the destination mobile communication device the call is not delivered to the destination mobile communication device and the originating mobile communication device is routed to an element of the network . In some embodiments a testing application may verify that a predefined function performed according to its intended function and or had correlated with an expected result.

In some embodiments a call feature manager may communicatively couple with the network and or the radio access network. The call feature manager may be enabled to configure and setup the predefined functions for the communication service provider associated with the network under test. For example the testing application may command a call from a mobile communication device and activation of caller identification visibility block for other test devices e.g. caller ID block or enablement . The call feature manager may be configured to receive the request from the mobile communication device and configure and or setup elements of the network under test such that the feature action is activated on the network under test. Thus with the feature action configured the test application may identify whether the test device confirms that the mobile communication device caller identification visibility is blocked. In some embodiments the variety of call sequences feature actions predefined functions and associated information and or results may be collectively referred to as any of a test test scenario or call scenario.

In some embodiments the testing application may be configured to perform cyclical functions or sequential operations hold a call for a definable duration e.g. a preset or inputted amount of time before proceeding and or lookup validation information associating with expected results from test activities. The testing application may continuously run call scenarios in a random and or sequential order that may be drawn from information stored in a storage e.g. test storage . It is also understood that a testing application may use a script to implement processes for a variety of testing scenarios.

In some contexts the testing application may execute operations e.g. call sequences testing scenarios etc. sequentially which may be based on confirmation and or verification of a prior operation being performed. In some embodiments confirmations and or verifications of an operation may include an application e.g. testing application using call detail record captures occasionally referenced as CDR captures which may be based on identifying combinations of feature actions call scenarios and or predefined functions. It is understood that a CDR capture is not limited to identifying only information within call detail records i.e. records that are processed but may also include raw call detail records and or other embodiments of raw call detail records as described hereafter. In some embodiments an application may command verification of information from CDR captures such as a call call sequence testing scenario i.e. call scenario feature action and or predefined functions by accessing information on an element of the network and or a storage that is communicatively linked. In some embodiments a CDR capture may include searching an element of the network e.g. a network switch where a raw call detail record may be created for a specific string sequence in order to confirm and or verify that a requested operation i.e. a call call sequence testing scenario etc. was performed or not performed.

In an embodiment the system includes the test storage that may be communicatively coupled with the computer via a direct link and or be accessible via the network . The test storage may comprise a non transitory memory that includes input and output data information associated with the testing application . In some embodiments the test storage may comprise any of input data scripts types of calls sequence of feature actions testing scenarios expected results histories of completed test scenarios captured confirmations communication logs test settings test results available test devices test device control information raw call detail record confirmations and or other information associated with automated testing using testing application .

In some contexts the test storage may comprise a plurality of expected results that collectively may be referred to as a baseline. In an embodiment expected results may allow a communication service provider to compare any of information confirmations and or results from one test scenario with prior test scenarios that may act as an expected result. Thus when a communication service provider implements a change to the network under test such as reconfiguring a subset of the radio access network then variations and or irregularities in the results received from a test and or confirmations from a test may be more readily identified when compared against the baseline. In an embodiment an application e.g. testing application may determine whether results from a test scenario do not match a baseline and or exceed a predefined deviation from a baseline. In this embodiment confirmation that the received results and baseline metric does or does not match and or does or does not exceed a predefined deviation may trigger execution of another operation e.g. a predefined function terminating a call placing another call implementing another test scenario . In some embodiments it may be efficient for a test scenario to terminate when erroneous results e.g. results not matching expected results or a baseline metric are identified before the end of the test scenario or before the end of the entire call flow sequence instead of waiting for the entire scenario to finish its planned call scenario. If a test result is determined to be erroneous in the middle of the test scenario or in the middle of the planned call sequence that test scenario may be terminated and another test scenario may be initiated.

The system may also comprise at least one raw call detail record CDR storage . In some embodiments a raw CDR storage may be located on or communicatively coupled with a telecommunications element such as a switch of network . Stated another way a telecommunications element such as a switch may be configured as and or include a raw CDR storage and thus a separate storage device would not be required for storing raw call detail records which are described in . Alternatively a raw CDR storage may exist as a standalone storage element that may be accessed via the network or via a direct connection such as connection with a switch. As described below in a raw CDR storage may comprise a raw call detail record which is further explained by referring to the exemplary embodiment disclosed in . Additionally discloses a mediation platform that is communicatively coupled with a billing server . The illustrated embodiment shows billing server being coupled to network via mediation platform however it is understood that billing server may be coupled with network directly. For clarity the role of a mediation platform and billing server is discussed in

Turning now to an exemplary schematic of system is disclosed. In an embodiment a plurality of raw CDRs base transceiver stations mobile communication devices monitor components and a computer may be communicatively coupled via the network . The system may also comprise a mediation platform a processed CDR and a billing server that may be communicatively coupled with each other and to the network . In an embodiment elements of the network and or radio access network create a plurality of raw call detail records that are associated with a call where the raw detail records may be stored on at least one storage e.g. raw CDR storage . Similarly a plurality of processed call detail records may exist on a storage referred to as a processed call detail record storage which may be communicatively connected with any of the mediation platform network and or billing server . Although exemplified in as being configured after a mediation platform in some embodiments a processed CDR may exist before reaching a mediation platform . In these embodiments the processed CDR may refer to a plurality of associated raw call detail records being combined together and or processed by elements of the network prior to reaching the mediation platform and or prior to being processed by the mediation platform . As illustrated in processed CDR is shown as a dashed line element to exemplify that call detail records are processed when coming from a mediation platform and usable by a billing server thus while a processed CDR may exist on a separate storage element a processed CDR may also exist in a mediation platform and or a billing server .

It is understood that data and or information from raw call detail records may eventually transform e.g. by altering the content of the original raw CDR and migrate to billing servers that are accessible for billing clients of the communication service provider. To understand the temporal aspect of when an application e.g. the testing application commands monitors accesses and or inspects information while conducting a test scenario the following example discloses one embodiment of a life cycle of a typical call detail record. By way of example when the mobile communication device originates a call to mobile communication device via base transceiver stations of the radio access network radio access network elements i.e. apparatus known to be used in the functionality of the radio access network may begin creating raw CDR1 and raw CDR2 that are both associated with the call. In some embodiments CDR1 and CDR2 may be stored on a storage local to the radio access network element creating the raw call detail records. While the mobile communication devices continue engagement of the call their respective raw CDRs will continue to be created and may exist as a data file. Upon termination of the call or execution of a predefined function each raw CDR may exist on a storage for a predefined time before going into a mediation process.

It is understood in the telecommunications industry that the mediation process may be performed by a mediation platform which operates as intermediary between network elements that generate the raw call detail records and a billing server or other down stream applications. By way of example the mediation process of the mediation platform may comprise functionalities including any of collecting segregating formatting preprocessing such as cleaning post processing such as any of filtering converting aggregating or correlating transforming converting and distributing raw call detail records into a format form and state acceptable by down stream systems such as a billing server . The billing server may then use the processed call detail record for a variety of functions e.g. billing clients because unlike a raw CDR the processed call detail record may be in a form more easily accessible for viewing and understanding by downstream parties and or applications.

In the telecommunications industry it is understood that the term call detail record occasionally referred to hereafter as CDR typically refers to a record of a call that has been processed and or has undergone a mediation process for use by a billing server because the contents of the call detail record are in a form more easily readable and understandable for parties and or applications. In some embodiments a call detail record including a raw call detail record and a processed call detail record may comprise data and information associated with calls from a communication device however the scope form state breadth and nature of data and information within the record may vary dependent on the call detail record type i.e. raw call detail records and processed call detail records may not be in the same state nor contain the same information. In some embodiments raw call detail records may include a data element that may comprise any of a data file or live data stream. In some embodiments a live data stream may be referred to as being in progress thereby indicating that a raw call detail record is in the process of being created and data is continuing to be added. Examples of a data element e.g. data and information associated with calls that may be live and or in progress include any of the phone number of the device originating and or receiving the call feature activation date and time of call initiation call duration call status device equipment identification call disposition such as whether call is answered terminated call type call route network hop of call or other metadata associated with the call.

A processed call detail record colloquially known as a call detail record may be a call detail record that has been processed or is being processed for use by a downstream client e.g. a billing server . It is generally understood in the telecommunications industry that a mediation process may feature collection validation transformation distribution and processing of raw call detail records . In an embodiment a processed call detail record results from mediation processing of a plurality of raw call detail records . It is understood that a processed call detail record is not a raw call detail record . Comparatively in an embodiment a raw call detail record is unprocessed and thus is not collected validated transformed pre processed or distributed such as by a mediation platform because it has yet to take steps toward or begin a mediation process. In an embodiment a raw call detail record may be described as being unprocessed by a mediation platform . In some embodiments the raw call detail record may be referred to as an unfinished call detail record unprocessed in a native state incomplete open or is in progress because for example it has not been transformed into a form that may be suitable for billing by the communication service provider. In an embodiment the raw call detail record may be referred to as being in a native state and may be such that each raw call detail record has not been transformed or engaged in a mediation process.

In an embodiment a processed call detail record may be based on information extracted and or obtained from a plurality of raw call detail records . Conversely in an embodiment each raw call detail record may include information based on and or associated with one aspect of call test device or feature action that is unique and exists separate from other related raw call detail records 

It is understood that in a given test scenario the number of raw call detail records may not match the number of test devices included in the network under test yet may still lead to one processed CDR that includes information from the plurality of raw call detail records . It is also understood that a plurality of raw call detail records may exist on different elements of the network or other storages accessible for retrieval. For example a test scenario with mobile communication device calling mobile communication device may generate two raw call detail records and respectively however a test scenario with a call activating a feature action that uses a predefined function for a multi party connection of three mobile communication devices may generate and associate with five raw call detail records. In some embodiments confirmation and verification of information within a plurality of raw call detail records may require an application e.g. testing application and or a component e.g. a monitor component to access search and compare with known information i.e. expected results and or a baseline metric . Both test scenarios described may each result in one processed CDR via a mediation process by the mediation platform .

Although information from a processed CDR may be accessible to the testing application the mediation process often takes time to complete and thus may increase the overall time for completing testing call scenarios. In some embodiments the testing application may increase efficiency by not waiting for the raw call detail records to become a processed CDR but instead may access the contents of raw call detail records during creation as the call scenario is in progress and or before processing. By accessing a raw call detail record the testing application may monitor the data elements such as incoming streaming live feed and data files from the mobile communication devices without the added time of waiting for the mediation process e.g. by a mediation platform .

In an embodiment a testing scenario of the testing application may compare and or confirm that a processed CDR reflects occurrence of information from any of raw CDRs such as any of call origination call connection activation of feature action or occurrence of predefined function of the feature action. Another embodiment may also compare and or confirm the information of one raw call detail record with any of another raw call detail record a communication log a baseline result e.g. an expected result and or a baseline metric or a processed CDR . For example a testing application may monitor the respective communication logs of mobile communication devices and by accessing inspecting and confirming information obtained from each communication log which is then compared with information from the respective raw CDR 1 raw CDR 2 and an expected result. In some embodiments multiple raw call detail records may be associated with one communication device e.g. mobile communication device may associate with a plurality of raw CDRs a n upon occurrence of a predefined function .

In an embodiment monitoring of communication logs raw CDRs processed CDRs and or expected results may occur by using a monitor component . The monitor component may be any type of processor based platform that operates on any suitable operating system and is coupled with a storage e.g. a raw call detail record storage or test storage that may be accessible via the network . In another embodiment the monitor component may exist on a network element and or a radio access network element that is communicatively coupled with any of the network storages of raw call detail records or the testing application of the computer . The monitor component may communicate with the testing application to execute logic for retrieving monitoring accessing inspecting or capturing information associated with and or existing on any of a raw call detail storage mobile communication device or communication device . The monitor component may relay to a testing application any of confirmations activations deactivations call state call control access or capturing of communication logs.

In an embodiment monitoring a plurality of raw call detail records on the network may be described as occurring contemporaneously with a call. It is understood that monitoring occurring contemporaneously may refer to a testing application and or monitor component accessing at least one raw call detail record while a call is in progress. In some embodiments contemporaneous may refer to accessing at least one raw call detail record while the raw call detail record is being created and while the call is ongoing. In some embodiments monitoring may be an in situ operation i.e. an operation that does not disturb the native state of the information and or record being monitored . In some embodiments an in situ operation of accessing inspecting and or capturing a raw CDR may not occur while a call is in progress. It is understood that the exemplary disclosure of may be implemented with the embodiments previously described in

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating an embodiment of a computer implemented method of automated testing of a network is disclosed. Initially in this embodiment an originating communication device is controlled . The originating communication device may be any of a mobile communication device a landline communication device and or a virtual communication device. Embodiments of communication devices are disclosed above in and . In some contexts control of an originating communication device occurs by a server an application or module any of which may be communicatively coupled via a direct link or via a network that is configured to execute logic that operates and uses the functionality of the communication device. In an embodiment control is accomplished by a testing application executing on a computer. In some contexts API s of the communication device are used for control purposes such as placing calls receiving calls and or performing predefined functions previously described above.

Continuing with the present embodiment the method also comprises commanding origination of a call from the originating communication device. Embodiments of a call may include any of a voice call a data call e.g. a video call or data transfer an SMS or an MMS. The call may be associated with any of a raw call detail record or a communication log e.g. logs of the originating communication device or a destination communication device . Embodiments of a raw call detail record may include any of being unprocessed e.g. a call detail record not processed by a mediation platform being in a native state being an unfinished call detail record being an open call detail record being in progress being created and as otherwise previously disclosed. The raw call detail record may include a data element. A data element may comprise any of a data file or a live data stream which may be in progress. In an embodiment an in progress live data stream refers to data and or information being actively recorded due to an ongoing call between a plurality of communication devices. In some embodiments commanding origination of a call triggers the generation of a communication log. The generation of a communication may occur via an application e.g. an OEM communication application or a testing application executing on a server . Embodiments of communication logs are described above in and

In this embodiment the method includes monitoring the raw call detail record. Monitoring the raw call detail record may include accessing a data element of the raw call detail record inspecting the data element and maintaining the raw call detail record s present state. Alternative embodiments of the monitoring step may include controlling a monitor component commanding access of the raw call detail record on a storage and inspecting the raw call detail record. In some embodiments inspecting and maintaining the raw call detail record s present state may be performed and referred to as an in situ operation which is previously described above. Accessing the data element of the raw call detail record may occur as the raw call detail record is being created i.e. while a communication device is actively engaged in a call . In some embodiments accessing the raw call detail record including elements therein may occur by a monitor component as previously described.

The method may also comprise the step of confirming the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call on the originating mobile communication device. In some embodiments origination of the call on the originating mobile communication device may also be confirmed on a communication log which may be associated with the originating mobile communication device. Confirming the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call on the originating mobile communication device may include any of accessing information e.g. a data element of the raw call detail record inspecting the information comparing the information e.g. with an expected result baseline metric other raw call detail records and or communication logs and or maintaining the raw call detail record s present state. In some embodiments confirmations of the raw call detail record may occur by a monitor component and or application. Similarly confirming a communication log accounts for the origination of a call may include any of accessing information of the communication log e.g. information displayed on a screen of the communication device parsing the information from the communication log inspecting the information comparing the information e.g. with an expected result baseline metric other raw call detail records and or communication logs and or maintaining the communication log s present state. In some embodiments confirmations of a communication log may occur by accessing API s on the communication device.

The method may also comprise controlling a destination communication device. It is understood that a destination communication device may comprise a communication such as a mobile communication device landline phone and or a virtual communication device. The control may occur using a server and or elements therein. It is understood that control of the destination communication device may occur in the same or similar manner as the control of the originating mobile communication device. That is an application may command functional control of the destination communication device thereby configuring the destination communication device to execute a sequence of predefined functions. The method may also confirm that the destination communication device is controlled by the server. In an embodiment confirmation that the destination communication device is controlled by the server may occur by an application and or monitor component using API s to access communication logs analyze and verify that control of the communication device has occurred. Confirmation that control has occurred may include verifying that an application may execute a predefined function which is reflected in the communication log.

The method may also include capturing the confirmation that the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call and the confirmation that the destination communication device is controlled by the server. As described in the embodiment above in regarding CDR capture an application may verify that a predefined function may be executed on each respectively controlled device i.e. the originating and destination communication device . In some embodiments confirming and or capturing a confirmation that a raw call detail record accounts for a specific piece of information may include accessing and inspecting a data element and then comparing the data element with an expected result. It is understood that a raw call detail record may be located on an element of the network such as a storage or switch.

Some embodiments of accessing inspecting and comparing a data element may include an application using any of an identification number name internet protocol address method of access e.g. secure shell and or authentication information of the element or storage that includes the raw call detail record. In some embodiments monitoring of raw call detail records may use disclosed embodiments for accessing inspecting and comparing a data element. In an embodiment the method may include logging and or recording the captured confirmations in a storage e.g. a test storage that is communicatively linked to the controlling application and or controlling server . The method may include generating a baseline metric of expected test results based on captured confirmations such as a generated confirmation that the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call and or the a generated confirmation that the destination communication device is controlled by the server. Generation of a baseline metric may include and or be associated with at least one data element of at least one raw call detail record. A baseline metric may include embodiments of expected results i.e. expected test results discussed previously.

In this embodiment the method may also include a step subsequent to confirmation that the raw call detail record accounts for the origination of the call and the confirmation that the destination communication device is controlled by the server the step including commanding e.g. by the server and or an application termination of the call from the originating mobile communication device. It is understood that the disclosed embodiments may be implemented by an application architecture such as test software architecture environment later disclosed in .

Turning now to a flowchart illustration according to an embodied method of the present disclosure is shown. The computer implemented method of automated testing of a network may comprise a step of activating by a testing application executing on a server a feature action associated with an originating communication device. To avoid repetition it is understood that embodiments of a testing application and communication device may include the disclosed embodiments of at least and . The testing application may order a call sequence that tests the functionality of the network such as provisioning a feature action that uses a predefined function. Embodiments of the feature actions using predefined functions are disclosed above including at least in and . Similarly embodiments of a call are previously disclosed above.

The method may also comprise generation of a confirmation of whether activation of the feature action associated with the originating communication device occurred. It is understood that a generated confirmation e.g. the confirmation of may include a positive or negative response such as confirming that a feature action was or was not activated. In some embodiments subsequent steps e.g. steps of method may occur based on a generated confirmation. In some embodiments an application for example may generate a confirmation by referring to a communication log and or raw call detail record e.g. by CDR capture as disclosed in previous embodiments including at least and . The method may also include commanding origination of a call from the originating communication device while the feature action is activated. Commanding origination of a call may be responsive to confirming activation of a feature action e.g. a feature action was or was not activated . In an embodiment the call is associated with a raw call detail record which may be an unfinished call detail record. It is understood that alternative embodiments of describing a raw call detail record are previously disclosed above. For example the raw call detail record may include a data element that may comprise a data file and or live data stream that may be in progress such that a test scenario is active. In some embodiments commanding origination of a call may be implemented by an application e.g. a testing application disclosed in at least and or . The method may include accessing the raw call detail record as the raw call detail record is being created that is before it is processed such as by a mediation platform.

The method may also comprise generating a confirmation of whether origination of the call from the originating communication device occurred while the feature action is activated. Similarly a confirmation may be generated of whether the raw call detail record reflects occurrence of the predefined function of the feature action. In an embodiment generating a confirmation and or confirming the raw call detail record may comprise accessing a data element of the raw call detail record inspecting the data element comparing the data element with an expected result and maintaining the raw call detail record in a present and or native state. In an embodiment accessing the data element of the raw call detail record may occur as the raw call detail record is being created.

It is understood that confirming origination of the call e.g. if the call did or did not originate and or confirming the raw call detail record may be implemented according to previously disclosed embodiments including at least and or . It is understood that an application for example may generate a plurality of confirmations where each confirmation may be associated and or based on a positive and or negative result. For example a test scenario may include activating call blocking on a destination mobile communication device however when an application requests confirmation that the destination mobile communication was provisioned with call blocking features a generated confirmation of the call blocking activation shows that the destination mobile communication device was not provisioned with the requested feature activation of call blocking. In some embodiments a testing application may recognize that there is an error in the generated test confirmation and thus cancel the remaining portion of a planned test scenario and thus may move on to another test scenario or may alert a network administrator that an error was found.

In an embodiment method may comprise any of capturing the confirmation of activating the feature action on the originating communication device capturing a confirmation that an action was initiated from the originating communication while the feature action is active e.g. an action of origination of a call from the communication device and or capturing the confirmation that the raw call detail record reflects occurrence of the predefined function of the feature action. In an embodiment capturing information and or confirmations may include parsing information from a screen of a communication device. Alternative embodiments for capture may comprise those previously disclosed in at least and

In some embodiments method may include commanding conclusion and or termination of the call from the originating communication device. It is understood that commanding conclusion may be from an application executing command instructions. In an embodiment commanding may occur subsequent to and or based on another action such as based on a generated confirmation. For example a generated confirmation may show that a raw call detail record does or does not reflect occurrence of a predefined function of a feature action. The method may also comprise deactivating one or more feature actions by for example a testing application executing on a server. The method may also comprise generating a confirmation of whether deactivation of the feature action associated with the originating communication device occurred. In some embodiments deactivation and confirmation of deactivation may occur by provisioning a communication device and or elements of a network. The method may also include logging captured confirmations e.g. storing generated confirmations in a storage. Additionally the method may include determining a subsequent feature action to activate that uses a predefined function. In some embodiments the subsequent feature action that is activated may be the same as the feature action currently active except the subsequent feature action is activated on a communication device other than the originating communication device. In an embodiment a plurality of communication devices may each have at least one feature action activated at the same time. An alternative embodiment may include a subsequent feature action on one communication device e.g. the originating communication device being activated based on the deactivation of a prior feature action and or based on occurrence of another step and or results from a previous step. In some embodiments determination and activation of feature actions may be responsive to logging captured confirmations in a storage. Additionally some embodiments of method may include a step of generating a baseline metric of test results and generation of a baseline metric may be based on captured confirmations. As previously mentioned above embodiments of a baseline metric may include association with expected results from a test case and or test scenario and or a subset of results from a test scenario.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

In some embodiments the test software architecture environment may comprise a script interface layer . The script interface layer may allow the main program to instruct the control script to initiate operation. The control script may include instruction segments that process a user inputted data for running a suite of test scenarios and may be implemented for the duration of the test scenario. The test software architecture environment may also comprise a network interface layer a device interface layer and a data storage interface layer . The network interface layer may include an application programming interface API that may be used to communicate with a network element that may be used in a test scenario. The device interface layer may include an API that may be used to communicate with test devices e.g. communication device mobile communication device or emulated device . The data storage interface layer may include an API that may be used to communicate with a storage for storing input and output data. It is understood that a storage may be communicatively coupled on a local computer or remotely via a network. It is understood that elements e.g. layers scripts and programs of the test software architecture environment may interact and or communicate with each other and or with external applications devices storages and or networks.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of transceivers radio transceivers modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX integrated digital enhanced network iDEN and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts such as the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM storage may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium a non transitory memory or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions using terms such as analyzing or processing or confirming or verifying or logging or activating or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in particular detail with respect to one possible embodiment. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may be practiced in other embodiments. First the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the disclosure or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead be performed by a single component.

The algorithms and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition embodiments of the present disclosure are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present disclosure as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present disclosure. Embodiments of the present disclosure are well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks comprise storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

