---

title: Image customization to enhance transaction experience
abstract: Systems and methods according to one or more embodiments enhance a user's transaction experience. In an embodiment, a system includes a computer memory storing a user profile. The system also includes a computer processor operatively coupled to the computer memory. The computer processor is configured to perform the following operations: determining a location of a user associated with a user device; and automatically changing an image displayed on the user device based on the location of the user associated with the user device and data determined or inferred based on, at least in part, data comprising the user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503845&OS=09503845&RS=09503845
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09503845
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140417
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to transactions and more particularly to methods and systems for image customization to enhance the transaction experience.

A customer regularly engages in transactions online or at a seller s business location. At times the customer uses a transaction card cash or a mobile device for payment. Although the consumer may enter into a transaction for example purchase one or more desired items online or at the seller s business location the consumer may not know of other opportunities for a purchase. For example the consumer may not know where to find a particular item or that other desirable items even exist. This may result in lost sales for sellers and missed opportunities for consumers.

Like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Embodiments of the disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows.

According to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure methods and systems are provided for automatically changing or customizing an image to enhance a user s transaction experience. In one or more embodiments an application may be downloaded on a user device wherein the application may automatically change or customize images displayed on the user device. In that regard an image such as a picture of a user an avatar a picture of an item or a landscape a background picture a picture of a model etc. may be changed or customized based on information or data such as the geo location of the user data about the user that may be inferred or determined based on for example a user profile including the user s preferences or tastes the user s previous transaction data or behaviors etc. as well as environmental data background data location data and or any other type of pertinent information or data related to the user the background the environment the location and or the transaction. The automatically customized images may help users to imagine themselves an item or a surrounding background according to the user s data e.g. with the user s preferences which may potentially increase transaction opportunities. In an embodiment the application may be provided by a remote server for example a payment provider server such as PayPal or eBay of San Jose Calif. USA.

In one or more embodiments a user associated with a user device may be detected entering a seller s place of business for example by geo location services by the user checking in into the place of business via a social network site on the user device by using beacons or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE by mobile check in through a user s mobile computing device and or by any other appropriate ways for detecting or determining a user s location. An image of the user such as a photograph or an avatar displayed on the user device may automatically change or be customized to help the user s purchasing experience. That is an image such as an avatar or a photograph of the user may automatically change or be customized based on the geo location of the user data inferred or determined based on for example the user s profile including the user s preferences or tastes previous purchases user searches user entered data etc.

In an embodiment the automatically customized image may help the user imagine an item according to the user s preferences for example it may help the user imagine himself or herself having or wearing the item with the right preferences of the user. For example if the user is entering a place of business such as a clothing store the latest fashion styles may automatically appear or be overlaid on the avatar or picture of the user along with options for customization taking into account user data such as data inferred or determined about the user based on a user profile including user preferences or tastes previous purchases etc. In an instance as the user enters the clothing store the avatar or picture on the user device may automatically change to show an overlay of a shirt by a certain designer on the avatar or picture. Based on the user s profile the shirt may be from the user s favorite designer and or it may be in the user s favorite color or pattern for example. The automatically changed or customized image helps the user to imagine himself or herself in the shirt which may meet the user s preferences and may encourage the user to purchase the shirt.

In another example if the user is entering an eyeglass store or is located near the eyeglass store an image on the user device may automatically display the avatar or a picture of the user wearing cool sunglasses or just a picture of cool sunglasses. In this example other data may be taken into account including for example environmental data such as the weather at the time the time of year the time of day etc.

The customized image on the user device may help the user to imagine a certain item with the right preferences which may encourage the user to conduct a transaction associated with the item for example purchase the item at the present business location or at a nearby location. Information such as details or options related to the item e.g. materials provenance or origin availability etc. and or locations of other nearby sellers of the item may also be provided.

Advantageously embodiments of methods and systems herein may provide the user with opportunities that enhance the transaction experience as well as increase sales for the seller.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure only and not for purposes of limiting the same illustrates a block diagram of a system for automatic image customization to enhance the transaction experience according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments the user device entity servers or devices and remote location server or device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

The user device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In various examples the user device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. cellular or mobile smart phone a tablet a personal computer a notebook computer a wearable computing device and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices.

The user device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by a user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. with the entity server or device or with the remote location server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the user via the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the remote location server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network . In another example the user is able to access entity websites via the one or more entity servers to view and select applications products and or services items for purchase and the user is able to purchase items from the one or more entity servers via the remote location server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments the user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from the one or more entity servers via the remote location server .

The user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

According to one or more embodiments the user interface application or the other applications may include an application that may be loaded on user device by remote location server or by any other appropriate entity. The application enables an image displayed on a user device to automatically be changed or customized based on user location data data that may be determined or inferred based on for example at least a user profile background data environmental data etc. In one or more embodiments user may complete a transaction such as making payments to the appropriate entity via remote location server wherein remote location server may be for example a payment service provider.

The user device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the remote location server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the remote location server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the remote location server .

The one or more entity servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more sellers or business entities or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities . Examples of sellers or businesses entities include stores restaurants hotels gyms or any other merchants or vendors of applications products or services items which offer the various items for purchase and payment. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of the user identity information as part of offering the items to the user over the network . It should be appreciated that although a user entity transaction is illustrated in this embodiment the system may also be applicable to user user entity entity and or entity user transactions.

Each of the entity servers in one embodiment may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over the network to the user interface application of the user device . For example the user may interact with the marketplace application through the user interface application over the network to search and view various items available for purchase in the entity database .

Each of the entity servers in one embodiment may include at least one entity identifier which may be associated or be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that e.g. particular items are associated with particular entities. In one implementation the entity identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the entity such as business and banking information. In various embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items with each entity server via the remote location server over the network .

In various embodiments entities associated with entity servers may integrate their respective entity database with a database maintained at remote location server for example an entity may provide the remote location server with data related to the latest items e.g. the latest Spring designs available and offered for transactions. In that regard the various entities may provide data related to the items upload the data identify the data for or from a website etc. In an example a merchant may upload inventory including pictures and item details or new products into its entity database which may be integrated with a database maintained at remote location server .

The remote location server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the user and one or more of the entity servers . As such the remote location server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with each user device and or each entity server over the network to facilitate the searching selection purchase and or payment of items by the user from one or more of the entity servers . In one example the remote location server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between entities and for example financial institutions.

The service application in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing module to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between the user and each of the entity servers . In one implementation the payment processing module assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. As such the service application in conjunction with the payment processing module settles indebtedness between the user and each of the entities wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

The remote location server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and entity accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. user and entities e.g. one or more entities associated with entity servers . For example account information may include private financial information of each user and each entity associated with the one or more entity servers such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between the user and the one or more entities associated with the entity servers . In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or entities that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or entity account respectively.

In one implementation the user may have identity attributes stored with the remote location server and the user may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the remote location server . User attributes may include personal information that may include an image such as a photograph or an avatar of the user banking information and or funding sources as previously described. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the remote location server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the remote location server to associate the user with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the remote location server .

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment processing module or separate may be configured to receive information from one or more user devices such as user device and or one or more entity servers such as entity server for processing and storage in a transaction database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from users such as user for processing an order and payment through one or more entities as described herein. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order associated with transactions between one or more entities and a user. Payment processing module may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary.

Transaction database may store transaction information from completed transactions including authorization details and or details of the transactions. Details of a transaction may include a description of items involved in a transaction such as services rendered or products purchased e.g. colors sizes brands etc. total costs locations dates forms of payment co payment amounts if any etc. Such information may also be stored in a third party database accessible by the remote location server provider and or the entity server.

The system described above with respect to the embodiment of may be used for gathering and recording information about users experiences preferences and costs in connection with transactions with one or more entities. Such information may be recorded or stored in a user profile or database for example transaction database of remote location server and or in some embodiments in entity database of entity server . In an example an application downloaded and installed on a user device may gather and store information about a user s experiences or preferences for specific types of items for example preferences in clothes colors sizes styles brands etc. Information about the user s experiences may also include for example information on how the user liked the services the quality of the services cleanliness of a facility customer service etc. As such information may be gathered and stored in a user profile for example in transaction database in connection with transactions with one or more entities such that an application may provide automatic image customization based on data determined or inferred based on at least the user profile including the user s experiences or preferences. Advantageously the user may have enhanced transaction experiences while potentially increasing sales for the entities.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a method for automatically changing or customizing an image to enhance the transaction experience according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In various embodiments the method illustrated in may be implemented by the system illustrated in the embodiment of .

In block the location of a user associated with a user device may be determined. In an embodiment the location may be determined via geo location services. For example the user may be detected as entering into a seller or business location or as being near e.g. within 50 feet 100 feet 150 feet etc. the business location such as a store a restaurant a hotel a gym etc. In another embodiment the location may be determined by the user checking in into an entity associated with the location. For example the user may check in into a store when the user enters the store via a social networking site or the user may check in through an application on a mobile device of the user or through a beacon via BLE in or near the store.

In block an image displayed on the user device may be automatically changed or customized based on the location of the user associated with the user device and data determined or inferred based on at least in part data comprising a user profile.

In various embodiments data comprising a user profile may be maintained for example at transaction database illustrated in the embodiment of . The user profile may include information or data associated with the user such as user preferences tastes previous purchases user searches user entered data etc. In that regard the user profile may include historical transaction data that may be used for determining the user s preferences or other information about the user. In one or more embodiments the information in the user profile may be weighted differently to obtain a final decision on whether to make a specific recommendation to a user by way of customizing an image with an item. A user s weight for a particular attribute of an item may be determined in any number of ways including behavior of the user. For example purchases may be weighted more than searches. Items closer in price with the user s previous purchases may be weighted more than more expensive items. The closeness of an item to a preference such as color may be weighted accordingly. As such an individual user may have a user profile which may be implemented in transaction database illustrated in that includes user specific weighting for item attributes and data. In many cases there may be direct evidence that a user likes a specific item attribute for example purchased multiple pairs of brown shoes but in other cases the evidence may be indirect for example might like brown slacks since user likes brown shoes . The user s profile may change continually with new actions by the user. It should be noted that a recommendation by way of changing or customizing an image may be for an item that may or may not be specifically requested or sought by the user. In one embodiment before a recommendation is made as may be implemented in a customized image systems and methods according to one or more embodiments herein may analyze recent user behavior and or previous purchases environmental data such as time of year weather etc. availability strength of match background data e.g. a background location such as an interior of a hotel room a garden etc. and other pertinent information.

In an example based on a geo location of a user device indicating that a user of the user device is entering a clothing store an image such as a picture avatar etc. may change to help the user with his or her buying experience. For instance as the user is detected to be entering the clothing store the latest styles or inventory may automatically appear on the image based on the user profile including user s preferences or tastes previous purchases etc. In some embodiments options may be given to the user to further customize the image as will be described in more detail below.

As such the user may be able to imagine or visualize an item that is aligned with the user s preferences such that the user may be encouraged to complete a transaction e.g. purchase the item and increase sales for the seller. Advantageously for both sellers and consumers methods and systems according to one or more embodiments may provide specific or targeted recommendations which may not be strictly based on what the user searches for or purchases at the time via visual customized images such that the user may be immersed in the transaction experience.

Referring to a user device is illustrated showing images according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated that the user device illustrated in may be implemented by user device illustrated in the embodiment of .

In various embodiments a user device that is associated with a user use or own may include one or more applications having an image associated with such applications. For example a user identifier e.g. user identifier illustrated in the embodiment of may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. photograph images avatars etc. . In the embodiment of an image may be associated with an application of user device . In various embodiments image may be a picture of the user an avatar a picture of a model or any other appropriate image. In various implementations the user identifier including for example image may be passed with a user login request to a remote location server e.g. remote location server via the network illustrated in and the user identifier may be used by the remote location server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the remote location server.

When the location of a user of user device is determined for example the user is detected to enter a store or to be near a store or the user checks into a store such as an eyeglass store an image of sunglasses is automatically overlaid on image and displayed on user device as illustrated in the embodiment of . In an embodiment the image may also be shown to the seller upon the user checking in at the seller s place of business for example. The overlaid image of sunglasses may be the latest designer sunglasses offered by the eyeglass store and may reflect the kinds of things characteristics or attributes the user may like for example the user s favorite brand color and or shape based on data such as the user s profile maintained at the remote location server. The image of sunglasses may be overlaid on top of image which may be an actual picture of the user an avatar a picture of a model etc. and may enhance the user s buying experience by letting the user know the latest style of sunglasses available while taking into account one or more of the user s preferences e.g. color and giving the user an idea on how the item may look using his or her own picture or avatar for example.

In various embodiments a user selectable interface which may be labeled Options or have any other appropriate label may provide information such as details or one or more options associated with an item shown on an overlaid image. For example options for eyeglasses may be provided for the user to choose from such as other potential styles colors prescriptions prices gift cards etc. as well as materials origin provenance e.g. made in . . . etc. The various options may be presented to the user upon selecting interface for example in the form of a list a pop up window a text an email etc.

Furthermore in embodiments where the user is detected to be nearby the seller or business location such as the eyeglass store the location of the business or seller may be provided to the user and in other embodiments the location of other sellers offering the sunglasses may also be provided to the user. As such if the user likes an overlaid item such as sunglasses and would like to purchase them the user may find a business location where the user may find the item.

It should be noted that in embodiments where it is determined that the user is located at a business location such as an eyeglass store or near an eyeglass store other pertinent data may also be taken into account in recommending one or more items that may be displayed on the user s user device for example environmental data may be taken into account such as the weather being sunny the time of year being Summer etc. For example image may be accessorized based on the user s preferences or previous purchase history as well as the sunny weather etc. such that a certain style of sunglasses to suit the user s preferences may be recommended and overlaid on image. .

In one or more embodiments when the user s location is determined an image on the user device may change based on where the user is located within the location. For example when the user is determined to be in a store an image on the user device may change based on where the user is within the store for instance the image may show sunglasses when the user is detected in a sunglasses portion or area of the store and changes to a suit when the user is detected in the men s suit section of the store. In another example the image changes when the user is detected purchasing an item related to the image. In this case if the user is shown an image of the user with sunglasses and then the user purchases sunglasses the system may then change the image to remove the sunglasses and replace it with another item on the image.

Referring now to a user device is illustrated showing images according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated that the user device illustrated in may be implemented by user device illustrated in the embodiment of .

In various embodiments a user device that is associated with a user use or own may include one or more applications that may or may not have an image associated with such applications. For example a user identifier e.g. user identifier illustrated in the embodiment of may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. a password a name etc. but not necessarily a user s photograph image . A user identifier including for example a password a name a pin etc. may be passed with a user login request to a remote location server e.g. remote location server via the network illustrated in and the user identifier may be used by the remote location server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the remote location server.

In some embodiments a user may not have an image or even an avatar associated with an application. In this case a picture of an item itself or a picture of the item on another person such as a model or another avatar may be used to display recommended items for the user. As such although in one or more embodiments herein the user may upload a picture to realize more personal experiences an actual picture of the user may not be necessary. Items or images may be changed or customized using a model or by themselves.

In the embodiment of when the user of user device is detected to enter a store or to be near a store or the user checks into a store such as a coffee shop an image of a coffee drink may automatically appear on an interface or display of user device based on for example the user s previous buying history and preferences for coffee as opposed to cold drinks for example . After a period of time for example after approximately 10 seconds 20 seconds 60 seconds etc. the image may be changed so that an image of pastries may automatically appear on user device as illustrated in . After another period of time for example after another 10 seconds 20 seconds etc. the image of pastries may be changed again and a further image for example fruit not shown may automatically appear on user device and so on. The changing images may be tailored to the user according to data determined or inferred based at least on the user s profile including user preferences previous purchase data etc. As such the user may be encouraged and be more likely to purchase one or more items as suggested by the customized images appearing on user device . Advantageously this may result in more sales for the store.

In one or more embodiments when a user s location is determined to be in a store such as the coffee shop an image on the user device may change based on where the user is located within the store for example the image may show a coffee drink when the user is detected in a beverages portion or area of the store and changes to a coffee maker when the user is detected in the accessories section of the store. In another example the image changes when the user is detected purchasing an item related to the image. In this case if the user is shown an image of a coffee drink and then the user purchases a coffee drink the system may then change the image to remove the coffee drink and replace it with another item on the image.

In various embodiments an interface not shown on the user device may provide one or more options for various items offered by the coffee shop for the user to choose from such as other types of pastries fruit gift cards prices calories allergens etc. The various options may be presented to the user in various forms for example in the form of a list a pop up window a text an email etc. Furthermore in embodiments where the user is detected to be nearby the seller or business location such as the coffee shop the location of the business or seller may be provided to the user and in other embodiments the location of other sellers such as other coffee shops or similar sellers may also be provided to the user.

In various embodiments if a user decides to conduct a transaction for example purchase an item represented in a customized image for example sunglasses illustrated in a convenient single click access for example may be provided using a service provider such as PayPal . Also the application may provide easy access e.g. single click access to view and bid on existing auctions such as eBay auctions.

It should be noted that embodiments of the present disclosure may be applicable to many more situations. In various embodiments background data may also be taken into account when changing or customizing images displaying recommended items for the user. For example when a user books a hotel room the image may change to reflect a picture of the hotel room in the background. An image such as a photograph of the user may be overlaid on the picture of the hotel room. As such the user may imagine himself or herself as part of the hotel room background so that the user may easily imagine himself or herself being there. In another example a photograph of the user may be overlaid on a garden background or a beach background for example such that the user may imagine himself or herself being in a preferred vacation spot. This results in an enhanced transaction experience for the user.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system is illustrated suitable for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure including user device one or more entity servers or devices and remote location server or device . System such as part of a cell phone a smart phone a tablet a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components including one or more of a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a network interface component a display component or alternatively an interface to an external display an input component e.g. keypad keyboard touchpad voice input etc. and a cursor control component e.g. a mouse pad .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component . These may include instructions to present automatically customized images based on location data a user profile environmental data background data historical data etc. process financial transactions etc. In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Memory may be used to store visual representations of different options for searching auto synchronizing making payments or conducting financial transactions. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the disclosure may be performed by system . In various other embodiments a plurality of systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the disclosure in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various methods and systems have been described according to one or more embodiments for automatically changing or customizing images based on appropriate data to enhance a user s transaction experience.

Although various components and steps have been described herein as being associated with user device entity server and remote location server of it is contemplated that the various aspects of such servers illustrated in may be distributed among a plurality of servers devices and or other entities.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The mobile device is in communication with cloud based resources which may include one or more computers such as server computers with adequate memory resources to handle requests from a variety of users. A given embodiment may divide up the functionality between the mobile device and the cloud based resources in any appropriate manner. For example an application on mobile device may perform basic input output interactions with the user but a majority of the processing and caching may be performed by the cloud based resources . However other divisions of responsibility are also possible in various embodiments.

The cloud based computing architecture also includes the personal computer in communication with the cloud based resources . In one example a participating entity merchant or consumer user may access information from the cloud based resources by logging on to a merchant account or a user account at computer .

It is understood that the various components of cloud based computing architecture are shown as examples only. For instance a given user may access the cloud based resources by a number of devices not all of the devices being mobile devices. Similarly an entity merchant or another user may access resources from any number of suitable mobile or non mobile devices. Furthermore the cloud based resources may accommodate many merchants and users in various embodiments.

The electronic system includes an input output interface module . The interface module is operable to receive an input from an external entity and communicate an output to the external entity. The external entity may include an entity merchant or a user consumer. In an embodiment the input output interface module includes a visual display unit. The input output interface module may also include physical and or virtual buttons keyboards mouse track balls speakers microphones light sensors light emitting diodes LEDs communications ports such as USB or HDMI ports joy sticks image capture devices for example cameras etc.

The electronic system includes a transceiver module . The transceiver module contains various electronic circuitry components configured to conduct telecommunications with one or more external devices. The electronic circuitry components allow the transceiver module to conduct telecommunications in one or more of the wired or wireless telecommunications protocols including communications protocols such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi IEEE 802.15 Bluetooth GSM CDMA LTE WIMAX DLNA HDMI etc. In some embodiments the transceiver module includes antennas filters low noise amplifiers digital to analog DAC converters analog to digital ADC converters and transceivers. The transceiver module may further include circuitry components such as mixers amplifiers oscillators phase locked loops PLLs and or filters. Some of these electronic circuitry components may be integrated into a single discrete device or an integrated circuit IC chip.

The electronic system also includes a computer processor module that is operable to execute computer instructions. The computer processor module may contain one or more central processing units CPUs graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs which may each be implemented using various digital circuit blocks including logic gates such as AND OR NAND NOR XOR gates etc along with certain software code.

The electronic system includes a memory storage module . The memory storage module may contain various forms of digital memory such as hard disks FLASH SRAM DRAM ROM EPROM memory chips or cartridges etc. Computer programming code may be permanently or temporarily stored in the memory storage module for example. The processor module may be used to execute the computer programming code stored in the memory storage module .

The memory storage module also contains a program module that is configured to facilitate transactions according to the present disclosure. For example the program module operates to provide actions to customize images based on location user profile and or other appropriate data.

In some embodiments the electronic system may also be implemented on a portable electronic device such as a mobile telephone or a computer tablet.

It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein these labeled figures are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example although entity or merchant transactions have been described according to one or more embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure may also apply to transactions where requests for information requests for access or requests to perform certain other transactions may be involved.

Having thus described embodiments of the disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is limited only by the claims.

