---

title: Orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing systems and methods
abstract: Various embodiments of the invention are directed to orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing (OFCM) systems and methods. For example, various embodiments of the OFCM transmitter may utilize an architecture comprised of a baseband modulation subsystem, a subsystem for generating multiplicity N orthogonal frequency chirp waveforms, and a bank of multiplicity N spread spectrum modulators. Various embodiments of the OFCM receiver may comprise of a subsystem for generating complex conjugates of multiplicity N orthogonal frequency chirp waveforms, a bank of multiplicity N spread spectrum demodulators, a symbol estimator, a symbol timing estimator, a frequency offset estimator, a carrier phase tracking loop, a multi channel estimator, and a baseband demodulation subsystem.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094107&OS=09094107&RS=09094107
owner: 
number: 09094107
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140403
---
Broadband wireless systems are in a rapidly evolutionary phase in terms of the development of various technologies development of various applications deployment of various services and generation of many important standards in the field. Although there are many factors to be considered in the design of these systems the key factors have been the bandwidth utilization efficiency due to the limited bandwidth allocation flexibility in operation and robustness of the communication link in the presence of various disturbances while achieving the specified performance. At present the OFDM techniques have been adapted in many wireless communication standards such as the World wide Interoperability for Microwave ACCESS Wimax digital audio broadcasting DAB digital video broadcasting terrestrial DVB T Long Term Evolution LTE etc.

One of the advantages of the OFDM system is the mitigation of a major source of distortion present in high data rate wireless communication links namely the inter symbol interference ISI achieved by reducing the symbol period by the use of multiple carrier transmission. However the use of a large number of carriers based on the orthogonality property in the OFDM system makes the performance of the system very sensitive to any carrier frequency offsets introduced for example by the Doppler shifts encountered in the wireless channels. The proper operation of the OFDM system requires means for precise estimate of the Doppler that may be different for different carriers in the frequency selective fading channel and means to mitigate such a Doppler effect from the received OFDM signal. Various methods exist in the prior art to solve this problem.

Another important problem arising with the use of a relatively large number N of carriers used in the OFDM signal is a relatively high peak to average power ratio resulting in a much reduced radio frequency RF power amplifier efficiency. Due to the inherent saturation in the RF power amplifier the signal with amplitude exceeding the input linear range of the amplifier is clipped or distorted. In order to keep the distortion to some specified limit arrived at by the signal to distortion plus noise power ratio considerations the output RF power is backed off from the maximum available power at the amplifier output and higher is the peak to average power ratio of the signal at the amplifier input larger is the required back off in the output power. The output back off concurrently also results in the reduction of the DC to RF power conversion efficiency of the RF power amplifier thus increasing the drain on the battery or any other power supply source in the mobile devices. Another problem arising due to distortion caused by the amplifier is the spreading of the spectrum of the OFDM signal outside the allocated band.

Various methods exist in the prior art to solve the problem of high peak to average power ratio including the method taught by Kumar in Multi Transform OFDM Systems and Methods with Low Peak to Average Power Ratio Signals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 913 761. The simulation results with the Multi Transform OFDM Systems show that the system effectively eliminates any increase in the peak to average power ratio of the OFDM signal due to a relatively large number of carriers.

However in the multiple accessing mode of the OFDM system wherein relatively narrow band OFDM channels are assigned to various users in a mobile communication network the frequency selective fading of the communication channel may cause severe fading of some of the user signals resulting in frequent hand offs or call drops for such users in a mobile communication network. The solution to such a problem may be the transmission of the user signal over multiple OFDM channels for providing a diversity gain and or transmission at a much reduced data rate. However such a solution results in a reduced capacity of the OFDM system.

Another problem with the OFDM system is that the narrow band signals of various users have no protection against any intended or unintended interference. Any significant narrowband interference in any of the OFDM channels may disrupt communication to users assigned such channels.

Band limiting filters such as square root raised cosine filters are used in the OFDM systems to minimize the transmission bandwidth. Due to band limiting filtering effects a significant number of OFDM channels at the band edges are not assigned to any users as the edge channels are subjected to significant attenuation resulting in a significant reduction of the OFDM system capacity.

There is a strong motivation to come up with systems and methods that achieve higher bandwidth efficiency compared to the OFDM system by eliminating the edge channel effects of the OFDM system and provide protection against deep fades in some segments of the spectrum and against narrowband interference.

The orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing OFCM system of the invention is a spread spectrum system wherein each user spectrum occupies the complete wide band of the OFCM system thereby providing protection against both the interference and frequency selective fading. Deep fading in a few segments of the wide band spectrum may not result in any significant performance degradation to any of the users. The prior art frequency chirp method used in Radar and other systems is comprised of the transmission of a single frequency chirp signal. The OFCM system of the invention is for the transmission of multiple user signals over the same transmission band in a mutually non interfering manner.

The OFCM system of the invention requires approximately the same bandwidth as that for the OFDM system however it does not have any edge effects of the OFDM system wherein a significant part of the transmission band is not used for information transmission as in the OFDM system the edge OFDM channels suffer from a disproportionate amount of attenuation due to the band limiting effects. In the OFCM system of the invention each user s transmission is over the complete wide band of the OFCM system and any filtering effects may result in only a relatively minor degradation of performance for the users thereby solving the problem of edge effects. In prior art the frequency chirp method used in the Radar and other systems is comprised of transmission of a single frequency chirp signal. The OFCM systems of the invention are for the transmission of multiple user signals in the same transmission band in a mutually non interfering manner.

In the OCFM system of the invention individual user signals with modulations such as MPSK Multi Frequency Shift Keying are constant envelope signals inheriting the property from the frequency modulated FM signals with an advantage in terms of requiring relatively low amplifier back off in the user to base station transmission in a mobile communication network wherein the power efficiency is relatively more important. The OFCM system of the invention inherits advantages of both the OFDM system and the spread spectrum systems such as relatively high bandwidth efficiency of the OFDM system and the protection against frequency selective fading and narrow band interference offered by the spread spectrum systems. These and other advantages of the OFCM system will be apparent from the detailed description of the invention.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and systems for orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing OFCM transmitters and receivers for communication over wireless fading channels. For example various embodiments of the transmitter may utilize an architecture comprised of a baseband modulation subsystem for receiving and modulating the input data providing the multiplicity N in general complex valued information baseband symbols a subsystem for generating multiplicity Nfrequency chirp waveforms a bank of multiplicity Nspread spectrum modulators modulating the frequency chirp waveforms by the information baseband symbols for providing multiplicity Nspread spectrum signals and an adder summing the spread spectrum signals for providing the serial OCFM signal comprised of the consecutive OCFM symbols.

Various embodiments of the OFCM transmitter of the invention may be further comprised of a guard interval insertion unit for cyclically extending the OCFM symbol duration Tby a guard interval Tproviding the extended OFCM symbol of the baseband OCFM signal a baseband to IF converter modulating the baseband OCFM signal by the IF local oscillator in phase and quadrature signals for providing the IF band pass OCFM signal and an RF stages unit comprised of an up converter an RF band pass filter and power amplifier for providing the RF band pass OCFM signal.

In various embodiments of the invention the subsystem for generating multiplicity Nfrequency chirp waveforms may be further comprised of a periodic saw tooth waveform generator a tapped delay line of length N 1 providing a multiplicity N delayed versions of the periodic saw tooth waveform and a bank of Ncomplex baseband FM frequency modulation modulators inputted by the N N selected delayed versions of the periodic saw tooth waveform wherein the multiplicity N complex baseband frequency chirp waveforms at the outputs of the modulators are nearly orthogonal over the symbol period of the information baseband symbols.

In various alternative embodiments of the invention the subsystem for generating multiplicity Nfrequency chirp waveforms may be further comprised of a digital waveform generator for providing a periodic digital waveform h k with k denoting discrete time a digital phase modulator for phase modulation of the periodic digital waveform providing the phase modulated output exp j h k j square root over 1 to a digital tapped delay line of length N 1 wherein the N outputs of the digital tapped delay line are discrete time orthogonal waveforms over the symbol period of the information baseband symbols. The subsystem for generating multiplicity Nfrequency chirp waveforms may further be comprised of adjusting the ndiscrete time orthogonal waveforms by a constant phase n 0 1 . . . N 1 such that the multiplicity N phase adjusted waveforms have their phase equal to 0 at the beginning of each OFCM symbol period and the selection of N N phase adjusted discrete time orthogonal waveforms.

Various embodiments of the baseband modulation subsystem may be comprised of multiplicity N Nbaseband modulators for receiving and modulating the input data comprised of the multiplicity Nusers input data for providing the multiplicity N in general complex valued information baseband symbols. In various alternative embodiments the baseband modulation subsystem may be comprised of a baseband modulator and a serial to parallel converter for providing the multiplicity N in general complex valued information baseband symbols. In various embodiments the baseband modulator may be one out of the group comprised of the MQAM modulator and the MPSK modulator or any more general modulator architecture. The baseband modulator may also be comprised of error correction encoders and interleavers.

In various embodiments of the OFCM transmitter an information baseband symbol may be modulated by multiple frequency chirp waveforms for providing a diversity gain over that inherent in the frequency chirp modulation system. In various embodiments of the OFCM transmitter an information baseband symbol may be modulated by multiple frequency chirp waveforms in a multicast session.

Various embodiments of the OFCM receiver of the invention may utilize an architecture comprised of a receive antenna for receiving the RF band pass OCFM signal an RF front stage unit comprised of an RF filter amplifier and down converter for providing the IF band pass OCFM signal a cascade of an IF to complex baseband converter an analog to digital converter and a guard interval deletion unit for providing the baseband OFCM signal a frequency chirp waveform generator for providing the complex conjugates of the Nfrequency chirp waveforms selected from the multiplicity N phase adjusted discrete time orthogonal waveforms a bank of multiplicity Nspread spectrum demodulators a symbol estimator for providing linear estimates of the multiplicity Ninformation baseband symbols a bank of multiplicity N Ndecision devices for the detection of the information baseband symbols and a baseband demodulation subsystem for providing the estimate of the input data. In various embodiments of the OFCM receiver multiple linear estimates of the information baseband symbols may be combined before being inputted to a decision device wherein the multiple linear estimates correspond to the same transmitted information baseband symbol for the purpose of providing the diversity gain.

Various embodiments of the OFCM receiver of the invention may further be comprised of a symbol timing estimator a frequency offset estimator and a carrier phase tracking loop. The symbol timing estimator providing the OFCM timing of the received serial OFCM signal may be based on the relatively high correlation between the signal segments during the initial and end intervals of duration Tof the extended OFCM symbol period. The frequency offset estimate may be obtained in terms of the argument of the said complex valued correlation computed using the estimated OFCM symbol timing.

Various embodiments of the carrier phase tracking loop may be comprised of a bank of multiplicity Nphase detector units for providing the estimates of the carrier phase error wherein Nis an integer from the range of integers 1 to N a cascade of a phase error averaging unit a gain block and a loop filter for providing the phase correction signal and an NCO numerically controlled oscillator for providing the phase corrected IF in phase and quadrature local oscillator signals to the IF to complex baseband converter unit of the OFCM receiver.

In various embodiments of the invention wherein the OFCM receiver is located for example at the base station of a mobile communication network the carrier phase of the OFCM signals transmitted from different mobile user terminals may be all different and may need to be tracked separately. The carrier phase tracking loop in such embodiments of the OFCM receiver may be comprised of a phase corrector for correcting the carrier phase error incurred in the linear estimates of the information baseband symbols for providing the phase error corrected information baseband symbols a decision device for the detection of the information baseband symbols a cascade of a phase error detector a gain block and a loop filter for providing an estimate of the residual carrier phase error a phase modulator for providing the complex exponential function of the loop filter output to the phase corrector.

In various embodiments of the OFCM receiver of the invention wherein the communication channel either exhibits non frequency selective fading characteristics or does not exhibit any fading the symbol estimator unit may be comprised of a bank of multiplicity Nintegrate and dump matched filters.

In various embodiments of the OFCM receiver of the invention wherein the communication channel exhibits frequency selective fading characteristics the symbol estimator unit may be comprised of a matched filter block a channel estimator an equalizer and a vector to serial converter wherein the channel estimator and the equalizer are connected in a back to back manner. The channel estimator unit provides an estimate of the channel frequency response vector of the frequency selective fading channel based on for example an exponentially data weighted least squares algorithm. The channel estimator unit may be further comprised of a first loop comprised of an adder a delay and a multiplier for generating a vector a matrix Sgenerator for providing the matrix Swith elements derived from the linear symbol estimates a second loop for accumulating the matrix SS H denotes Hermitian transpose with exponential data weighting for providing a matrix P and a matrix inverter and a matrix multiplier for computing the estimate of the channel frequency response vector from the matrix P and the vector .

In various embodiments the equalizer may be comprised of a transfer matrix Q generator for generating the matrix Q with elements derived from the elements of the estimate of the channel frequency response vector and the elements of the Fourier transform matrix and a least squares estimator for providing the linear estimate of the symbol vector.

In various embodiments of the invention wherein the RF OFCM signals from multiple OFCM transmitters are received over multiplicity Ncommunication channels with frequency selective fading characteristics the symbol estimator unit of the OFCM receiver may be comprised of a matched filter block an equalizer a vector to serial converter a multichannel channel estimator for providing the channel matrix C with columns composed of the estimates of the channel frequency response vectors of multiplicity Nchannels and a splitter for providing the estimates of the channel frequency response vectors to the matched filter block. In various embodiments the multichannel channel estimator may be comprised of an exponentially weighted Kalman filter for the estimation of the channel matrix C.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and sets forth the best modes contemplated by the inventor of carrying out his invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the generic principles of the present invention have been defined herein specifically to provide for orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing OFCM communication systems and methods.

The baseband modulator segments the user input data d m into groups of binary valued data bits and maps each of the groups of the binary data bits into one of the M 2 in general complex valued information baseband symbols s m with selected equal to an integer greater than or equal to 1. The one to one mapping of the groups of binary valued data bits into the corresponding information baseband symbol may be based on any of the baseband modulation techniques selected for example from the set of the MQAM M ary Quadrature Amplitude Modulation the MPSK M ary Phase Shift Keying and the MASK M ary Amplitude Shift Keying modulation techniques. In various embodiments of the invention the baseband modulator may also be comprised of an error correction code encoder and an interleaver.

Referring to the frequency chirp waveform subsystem generates the multiplicity N frequency chirp waveforms t t . . . t . In various embodiments of the invention the number of frequency chirp waveforms N may be different than the number of users input data N. For example in various embodiments of the invention the output of one of the baseband modulators may be modulated by multiple frequency chirp waveforms.

Referring to the waveform generator generates a periodic saw tooth waveform g t of period Tand amplitude Vp shown in . The waveform g t is inputted to a tapped delay line providing the N 1 delayed versions of g t with the ndelayed version g t nt n 1 2 . . . N 1 wherein t T N. Referring to the waveform g t and various delayed versions g t nt through N 1 are inputted to the respective complex baseband FM modulators through N 1. The complex baseband FM modulator frequency modulates the input signal g t nt providing the frequency chirp waveform t at the output for n 0 1 . . . N 1. The frequency chirp waveform t is given by

The use of a trigonometric identity in 9 results in the equivalent expression for the correlation coefficient in 10 .

Referring to the information baseband symbols s m with a symbol rate of R 1 Tsps symbols per second are inputted to the spread spectrum modulator for n 0 1 . . . N 1. The spread spectrum modulator is provided with the frequency chirp waveform t that modulates the information baseband symbol sequence s m providing the spread spectrum signal v t at the output given by 1 0 1 . . . 1 1 2 . . . 13 

The spread spectrum signal v t has a two sided bandwidth of 2 F B R from the Carson s rule for the FM signal bandwidth wherein Bis the bandwidth of the periodic waveform g t . With 2F NR the two sided bandwidth of the signal v t may be conservatively estimated by N 8 Rthat is nearly equal to NRfor N 1.

Referring to the N spread spectrum signals v t are inputted to the adder for providing the serial OFCM Orthogonal Frequency Chirp Multiple Accessing Signal v t at the output with

Referring to the baseband OFCM signal v t is inputted to the guard interval insertion block that introduces a guard band of Tseconds before each of the OFCM symbols comprised of the consecutive Tsecond segments of the OFCM signal v t to protect against multipath distortion by the cyclic extension of the serial OFCM signal v t generating the baseband OFCM signal v t given by 15 wherein T T Tis the extended OFCM symbol period with the effective symbol rate R 1 T.

Referring to the baseband OFCM signal v t is inputted to the baseband to IF converter that modulates the signal v t by the IF Intermediate Frequency local oscillator in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft provided by the IF local oscillator generating the IF OFCM band pass signal v t given by exp 2 cos 2 sin 2 16 

In 16 fdenotes the IF frequency and Re and Im denote the real part and imaginary part operators respectively.

Referring to the OFCM IF signal v t is inputted to the RF stages block . The RF stages block is inputted by the RF local oscillator signal provided by the RF local oscillator and may be comprised of an up converter an RF band pass filter and power amplifier providing the RF OFCM signal v t to the antenna . The RF OFCM signal is given by square root over exp 2 17 

From 1 5 the discrete time version of the frequency chirp waveform t with a sampling interval tequal to 1 2F may be obtained as

The discrete time versions of the frequency chirp waveform t n 1 2 . . . N 1 may be obtained by the discrete time versions of the time shifted version of t with time shift t nt. The time shifted versions however may have non zero phase at k 0. The phase shift may be evaluated as

The phase shift may equivalently be evaluated as h N n n n N N. From 5a b the discrete time version of the product t t is given by

The discrete time frequency chirp waveforms k n 0 1 . . . N 1 form an orthogonal set of waveforms with

The baseband modulator segments the user input data d m into groups of m binary valued data bits and maps each of the groups of the binary data bits into one of the M 2 in general complex valued information baseband symbols s m with selected equal to an integer greater than or equal to 1. The one to one mapping of the groups of binary valued data bits into the corresponding baseband symbol may be based on any of the baseband modulation techniques selected for example from the set of the MQAM M ary Quadrature Amplitude Modulation the MPSK M ary Phase Shift Keying and the MASK M ary Amplitude Shift Keying modulation techniques.

Referring to the information baseband symbols s m is inputted to the rate converter n 0 1 . . . N 1. The rate converter increases the sampling rate of the information baseband symbol by a factor of N T t by repetition of the input s m N times. Referring to the output k of the rate converter is inputted to the spread spectrum modulator n 0 1 . . . N 1.

Referring to the discrete time frequency chirp waveform subsystem generates the multiplicity N discrete time frequency chirp waveforms k k . . . k . In various embodiments of the invention the number of frequency chirp waveforms N may be different than the number of users input data N. For example in various embodiments of the invention the output of one of the rate converter may be modulated by multiple frequency chirp waveforms.

Referring to digital waveform generator generates the periodic discrete time waveform h k k k N N k 0 1 . . . of period N given by 20 . The discrete time waveform h k is inputted to the digital phase modulator providing the discrete time frequency chirp waveform k exp j h k . Referring to the discrete time frequency chirp waveform k is inputted to the tapped delay line providing the N 1 delayed versions through N 1 k 1 k 2 . . . k N 1 . The N 1 delayed versions . . . N 1 of the discrete time frequency chirp waveform k are provided to the first inputs of the respective multipliers . . . N 1.

Referring to the phase shift given by 21 and equal to n n N N is inputted to the exponential function block for n 1 2 . . . N 1. The exponential function block provides the output exp j to the second input of the multiplier for n 1 2 . . . N 1. The multiplier subtracts phase shift given by 21 from the phase of the delayed version k n of the discrete time frequency chirp waveform k providing the ndiscrete time frequency chirp waveforms k to the spread spectrum modulator with n equal to b through N 1. Referring to the frequency chirp waveform k is inputted to the spread spectrum modulator

Referring to the spread spectrum modulators through N 1 modulate the respective rate converted information baseband symbols k with n equal to 0 through N 1 providing the spread spectrum signals v k k k n 0 1 . . . N 1 to the adder . The adder sums up the N spread spectrum signals v k providing the discrete time orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing OFCM serial signal

Referring to the guard interval insertion block introduces a guard band of Nsamples before each of the OFCM symbols comprised of the consecutive N samples of the OFCM signal v k to protect against multipath distortion by the cyclic extension of the serial OFCM signal v k generating the baseband OFCM signal v k given by 27 wherein N N N.

Referring to the baseband OFCM signal v k is inputted to the digital to analog converter block . The digital to analog converter block converts the OFCM signal into analog form and may also include a band limiting filter such as the square root raised cosine filter providing the analog baseband OFCM signal v t at the output.

Referring to the baseband OFCM signal v t is inputted to the baseband to IF converter that modulates the signal v t by the IF Intermediate Frequency local oscillator in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft provided by the IF local oscillator generating the IF OFCM band pass signal v t given by

In 28 fdenotes the IF frequency and Re and Im denote the real part and imaginary part operators respectively.

Referring to the OFCM IF signal v t is inputted to the RF stages block . The RF stages block is inputted by the RF local oscillator signal provided by the RF local oscillator and may be comprised of an up converter an RF band pass filter and power amplifier providing the RF signal v t to the antenna . The RF signal is given by square root over exp 2 29 

Referring to the RF front stage unit provides the IF signal v t to the IF to complex baseband converter . The IF to complex baseband converter is provided with the IF local oscillator signal in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft generated by the NCO Numerically Controlled Oscillator . The IF to complex baseband converter may be comprised of demodulating the IF signal v t by the in phase and quadrature signals cos 2 ft and sin 2 ft and filtering the resulting signals by the low pass filters. The outputs of the low pass filters comprise of the real and imaginary components of the complex baseband signal v t at the output of the IF to complex baseband converter .

Referring to the complex baseband signal v t is inputted to the analog to digital converter ADC for conversion of the signal into digital form providing the discrete time baseband OFCM signal v k at the output of the ADC . The sampling rate for the ADC may be selected equal to 2F 1 t.

Referring to the OFCM signal v k is inputted to the symbol timing estimator . The symbol timing estimator provides the OFCM symbol synchronization signal to the guard interval deletion block and is comprised of a clock pulse at the beginning of each Tperiod comprised of N samples of the OFCM symbol and Nsamples of the cyclic prefix of the OFCM symbol.

Referring to the baseband OFCM signal v k is inputted to the frequency offset estimator for estimating any frequency offset between the center frequency of the received IF signal and the frequency of the reference signal provided by the NCO . The frequency offset may be the result of any difference or drift of the local oscillator frequencies at the transmitter and receiver and any Doppler shift introduced by the transmission channel.

The estimation of the symbol timing and the frequency offset may be performed by the use of redundant information contained in the Nsamples of the cyclic prefix that is identical to the last Nsamples of the OFCM symbol as taught by J. van de Beek et. al. in ML Estimation of Time and Frequency Offset in OFDM Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Vol. 45 No. 7 July 1997 pp. 1800 1805 included with this application by reference. In various alternative embodiments of the invention a unique training symbol with two identical halves may be used for the purpose of the estimation of the symbol timing and the frequency offset as is taught by T. M. Schmidl and D. C. Cox in Robust Frequency and Timing Synchronization for OFDM IEEE Transactions on Communications Vol. 45 No. 12 December 1997 pp. 1613 1621 included with this application by reference. The teachings of Beek et. al. and those of Schmidl and Cox originally for the OFDM systems may also be applied to the OFCM systems of the invention.

Referring to the discrete time baseband OFCM signal v k is inputted to the guard interval deletion block . The guard interval deletion block deletes the Nsamples of the cyclic prefix of the extended OFCM symbols providing the baseband OFCM signal v k at the output. Referring to the serial OFCM signal v k is inputted to the spread spectrum demodulators a through N 1.

Referring to the OFCM symbol synchronization signal v m is provided to the frequency chirp waveforms generator for the timing synchronization of the waveform generator to the timing of the received OFCM signal. The frequency chirp waveforms generator generates the complex conjugates of the frequency chirp waveforms 0 1 . . . N 1 k k . . . k .

Referring to complex conjugates of the frequency chirp waveforms 0 1 . . . N 1 k k . . . k are provided to the spread spectrum demodulators a through N 1. The spread spectrum demodulators multiplies the serial OFCM signal v k by the complex conjugates of the frequency chirp waveforms k providing the output y k k v k n 0 1 . . . N 1 to the symbol estimator A B C . The symbol estimator A B C provides the linear estimates of the symbols m to the decision device n 0 1 . . . N 1.

Referring to the decision device n 0 1 . . . N 1 detects the information baseband symbols on the basis of the signal constellation diagram of the baseband modulator at the OFDM transmitter of by mapping the estimate m into one of the points of the signal constellation diagram of the baseband modulator in the two dimensional signal space and provides the detected symbol s m n 0 1 . . . N 1 to the baseband demodulation subsystem . For example the baseband modulator may be an M 64 QAM modulator with 64 points in the signal constellation diagram. The detection of the information baseband symbols may be based on for example the maximum likelihood criteria or the minimum distance criteria in the two dimensional signal space.

Referring to the detected baseband symbol s m is inputted to the baseband demodulator n 0 1 . . . N 1.The baseband demodulator n 0 1 . . . N 1 maps the detected baseband symbols s m into groups of binary digits wherein log M assumed to be an integer using the inverse of the map from group of binary digits into 1 out of M possible information baseband symbols used in the baseband modulator at the OFCM transmitter. The baseband demodulator block may finally concatenate the groups of M binary digits into the serial stream circumflex over d m that constitutes the detected version of the user n input data d m at the OFCM transmitter. In various embodiments of the invention the baseband demodulator may also be comprised of an error correction decoder and a deinterleaver.

In various embodiments of the invention N N data streams may be obtained by splitting an user data d n at the OFCM transmitter and a parallel to serial converter not shown may combine the corresponding Nserial data stream circumflex over d m providing the estimate circumflex over d n of d n in the OFCM receiver .

Referring to the frequency offset in radians second provided by the frequency offset estimator is multiplied by in the block with the result provided to the adder . The gain is selected such that the product K 1 wherein Kis the sensitivity of the NCO in rad sec volt. In various embodiments of the invention the frequency offset may be averaged over more than one OFCM symbols before being inputted to the cascade of the adder and the NCO with the estimate held constant after the initial estimation period. In various alternative embodiments of the invention is selected such that K 0 

Referring to the linear estimates of the symbols m and the detected baseband symbols s m n 0 1 . . . are inputted to the carrier phase error estimator unit A B. The carrier phase error estimator unit A B estimates the phase error between the carrier phase of the received IF signal and the phase of the reference signal provided by the NCO and generates a correction signal v m . Referring to the correction signal v m is inputted to the cascade of the adder and the NCO for correcting the phase of the reference signal such that the phase error is driven to 0 with increasing number of received OFCM symbols.

Referring to the phase shift given by 21 and equal to n n N N is inputted to the exponential function block for n 1 2 . . . N 1. The exponential function block provides the output exp j to the second input of the multiplier for n 1 2 . . . N 1. The multiplier subtracts phase shift given by 21 from the phase of the delayed version k n of the discrete time frequency chirp waveform k providing the ndiscrete time frequency chirp waveform k . Referring to the discrete time frequency chirp waveforms k n 0 1 . . . N 1 are inputted to the complex conjugate blocks providing the complex conjugate of the frequency chirp waveform k at the outputs.

Referring to the error signals . . . Nare inputted to the arg blocks for the computation of the phase of the error signals . The cascade of the multiplier n and the arg block constitute the phase error detector n. The outputs of the arg blocks . . . Ntilde over tilde over . . . tilde over constitute Ndifferent estimates of the phase error between the carrier phase of the received IF signal and the phase of the reference signal provided by the NCO .

Referring to the Nphase error estimates a through Ntilde over tilde over . . . tilde over are averaged by the averaging block providing the average phase error tilde over m to the cascade of the gain block and the loop filter . The output of the loop filter v m constitutes a correction signal provided to the NCO such that the phase error tilde over m is driven to 0 with increasing m.

Referring to the cascade comprised of the complex conjugate blocks the multipliers the arg blocks and the averaging block constitutes the composite phase error detector. The subsystem comprised of the composite phase error detector the gain block the loop filter that may be a digital filter and the NCO is a phase locked loop. The gain Gand the transfer function of the digital loop filter may be determined on the basis of the teachings of Kumar and Hurd in A Class of Optimum Digital Phase Locked Loops for the DSN Advanced Receiver TDA Progress Report 42 83 July September 1985 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology pp. 63 80 included with this application by reference.

Referring to the phase corrected symbol estimate m is inputted to the multiplier for providing the output tilde over s m to the arg block and given by 31 

Referring to the arg block provides the residual phase error tilde over m to the cascade of the gain block and the loop filter . The output circumflex over m of the loop filter is inputted to the phase modulator that provides the output exp jcircumflex over m j square root over 1 to the delay . Referring to the delayed output exp jcircumflex over m 1 is inputted to the phase corrector for correcting the phase of the linear symbol estimate m .

Referring to the signals . . . N 1 y k . . . y k are inputted to the serial to parallel converters . . . N 1. The serial to parallel converter n 0 1 . . . N 1 collates the N samples of signal y k in any OFCM symbol period into the vector Y m with 1 . . . 1 1 1 1 2 . . . 33 

In 33 T denotes the matrix transpose. Referring to the channel estimator provides the estimate of the communication channel frequency response vector m 1 with . . . 1 2 . . . 34 

In 34 m is the estimate of the channel frequency response cat the RF frequency f f F n 2F N or correspondingly at the baseband frequency f F n 2F N F n T n 0 1 . . . N 1. The N samples in any OFCM period of the 0spread spectrum signal v k are effectively multiplied by the frequency response c n 0 1 . . . N 1 during the transmission over the frequency selective communication channel. The N samples in any OFCM period of the of the 1baseband OFCM signal v k are respectively multiplied by the components of the circularly shifted version of the frequency response vector c ccc. . . c . In general the N samples in any OFCM period of the nspread spectrum signal v k are respectively multiplied by the components of the n times circularly shifted version cof the frequency response vector c cc. . . c .

Referring to the estimate of the channel frequency response vector m 1 is inputted to the shifter block . The shifter block provides the N times shifted version m 1 of the channel frequency response vector m 1 to the respective matched filter in the matched filter block . Referring to the matched filter provides the output z m given by 1 0 1 . . . 1 1 2 . . . 35 

Referring to the matched filter outputs z m n 0 1 . . . N 1 are inputted to the scalar to vector converter for providing the vector z m comprised of the components z m to the equalizer .

Referring to the signals . . . N 1 y k . . . y k are inputted to the vector m collator for providing the signal vector m given by 36 . 1 . . . 1 0 1 . . . 36 

Referring to the channel estimator provides an exponentially data weighted least squares estimate of the channel frequency response vector c. Referring to the symbol estimates vector m comprised of the linear symbol estimates m as components with m m m . . . m is inputted to the matrix Sgenerator . Referring to the matrix Sgenerator generates the N N matrix Swith elements of Sderived from the elements of the symbol estimates vector m as given by 37 . 37 

In 37 H denotes the Hermitian transpose denotes component wise multiplication and m is the estimate of the Toeplitz matrix Sgiven by 38 wherein the elements of Sare comprised of the information baseband symbols s m n 0 1 . . . N 1.

The elements of the matrix m are the linear estimates m of the corresponding elements s m of the matrix S. The matrix in 37 is the Fourier transform matrix given by 39 .

The signal vector m may be expressed in terms of the matrix Sby 40 . 40 where in 40 n is the additive complex baseband noise vector arising due to the receiver noise present with the IF signal v t . The least squares estimate of the channel frequency response vector c may be obtained in terms of the signal vector m and is given by 1 2 . . . 41 where in 41 is the variance of the elements of the vector n and I is the identity matrix. A more accurate estimate m of the channel frequency response vector c may be obtained in terms of the signal vectors 1 1 2 . . . m. An exponentially data weighted least squares algorithm for the estimate m is given by 1 1 2 . . . 42 1 1 2 . . . 43 m . . . 44 

Referring to the signal vector m is multiplied by the matrix Sby the matrix multiplier providing the output S m at the multiplier output. Referring to the loop comprised of the adder the delay and the multiplier generates the vector m given by 43 . Referring to the matrix Sis provided to both the inputs of the conjugate multiplier for providing the matrix product SSto the adder . Referring to the loop comprised of the adder the delay and the multiplier generates the matrix P m P m given by 42 .

Referring to the matrix P m is inverted by the block providing the inverse matrix P m to the conjugate multiplier . Referring to the vector m is inputted to the conjugate multiplier and is pre multiplied by the matrix P m providing the estimate of the channel frequency response vector m at the output of conjugate multiplier .

Referring to the scalar to vector converter output vector z m may be expressed in terms of the symbol vector S m s m s m . . . s m as 45 46 

In 45 v m is the noise present at the output of the matched filter block is the matrix given by 39 and is the diagonal matrix given by Diag1exp 2 square root over 1 47 

In 49 is the nrow of the matrix and cis the n times circularly shifted version of the channel frequency response vector c. For example qis given by

The symbol vector S m may be estimated form 45 50 as 1 2 . . . 51 In 51 the matrix circumflex over Q may be obtained from Q by replacing cby the estimate m 1 n 0 1 . . . N 1 in 48 50 . The matrix Rin 51 is the covariance matrix of the noise vector v n and may be estimated as 1 52 

Referring to the estimate of the channel frequency response vector m 1 is inputted to the circumflex over q vector evaluator . The circumflex over q vector evaluator evaluates the element circumflex over q of vector circumflex over q from 49 after replacing vector cby the estimate m 1 . Referring to the vector circumflex over q is inputted to the transfer matrix circumflex over Q generator . The transfer matrix circumflex over Q generator computes the matrix circumflex over Q from 46 48 with the q replaced by the estimate circumflex over q .

Referring to the matrix circumflex over Q is inputted to both the inputs of the conjugate multiplier for providing the output circumflex over Q circumflex over Q to the adder . The adder adds the noise covariance matrix Rto the input circumflex over Q circumflex over Q providing the output circumflex over Q circumflex over Q R to the matrix inverse block . The matrix inverse block computes the inverse of the input matrix circumflex over Q circumflex over Q R providing the inverse matrix circumflex over Q circumflex over Q R to the matrix multiplier .

Referring to the matched filter block output vector z m is inputted to the conjugate multiplier . The conjugate multiplier pre multiplies the vector z m by the matrix circumflex over Q providing the output circumflex over Q z m to the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier pre multiplies the vector circumflex over Q z m by the matrix circumflex over Q circumflex over Q R providing the symbol vector estimate m given by 51 to the vector to scalar converter . Referring to the vector to scalar converter provides the symbol estimates a through N 1 m m . . . m at the output of the symbol estimator B.

In 53 m is the noise present at the output of the serial to parallel converter with covariance matrix equal to I.

In 53 the matrices are given by 47 and 39 respectively and Sis the Toeplitz matrix given by 38 . An exponentially data weighted least squares algorithm for the estimate m may be obtained from 53 and is given by. 1 1 2 . . . 54 55 1 1 2 . . . 56 1 2 . . . 57 where in 55 is the estimate of the Toeplitz matrix Sgiven by 38 .

Referring to the vector Y m is inputted to the matrix multiplier . Referring to the symbol estimates vector m comprised of the symbol estimates m as components with m m m . . . m is inputted to the matrix Sgenerator . The matrix Sgenerator evaluates the matrix Saccording to 55 and provides the Hermitian transpose of the result Sto the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier pre multiplies the vector Y m by the matrix Sproviding the product SY m to the adder .

Referring to the feedback loop comprised of the adder the delay and the multiplier generates the vector m given by 56 . Referring to the matrix Sis provided to both the inputs of the conjugate multiplier for providing the matrix product SSto the adder . Referring to the feedback loop comprised of the adder the delay and the multiplier generate the matrix P m given by 54 .

Referring to the matrix P m is inverted by the matrix inverter providing the inverse matrix P m to the conjugate multiplier . Referring to the vector m is inputted to the conjugate multiplier and is pre multiplied by the matrix P m providing the estimate of the channel frequency response vector m at the output of conjugate multiplier . The estimate m is delayed by the delay providing the delayed estimate m 1 to the equalizer .

In 60 is an estimate of the matrix obtained by replacing the elements cof by their respective estimates m 1 n 0 1 . . . N 1 that are components of the vector m 1 obtained in 57 .

Referring to the estimate of the channel frequency response vector m 1 is inputted to the transfer matrix Qgenerator . The transfer matrix Qgenerator computes the matrix Qfrom 50 60 .

Referring to the matrix Qis inputted to both the inputs of the conjugate multiplier for providing the output QQ to the adder . The adder adds the noise covariance matrix I to the input QQ providing the output QQ I to the matrix inverse block . The matrix inverse block computes the inverse of the input matrix QQ I providing the inverse matrix QQ I to the matrix multiplier .

Referring to the vector Y m is inputted to the conjugate multiplier . The conjugate multiplier pre multiplies the vector Y m by the matrix Qproviding the output QY m to the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier multiplies the vector QY m by the matrix QQ I providing the symbol vector estimate m given by 60 to the vector to scalar converter . Referring to the vector to scalar converter provides the symbol estimates a through N 1 m m . . . m at the output of the symbol estimator C.

Referring to the signals . . . N 1 y k . . . y k are inputted to the serial to parallel converters . . . N 1. The serial to parallel converter n 0 1 . . . N 1 collates the N samples of signal y k in any OFCM symbol period into the vector Y m with 1 . . . 1 1 1 1 2 . . . 33 

Referring to the vector Y m is inputted to the multichannel estimator block . In various embodiments of the invention any one of the N vectors Y m may be selected as input to the multichannel estimator block .

The multichannel estimator provides the estimate of the communication channel n frequency response vector C cc. . . c n 0 1 . . . N 1. The icomponent Y m of the vector Y m may be expressed in terms of the information baseband symbol vector S m by 61 . 0 1 . . . 1 61 

In 61 denotes the icolumn of the matrix in 39 v m is the noise and Cdenotes the transpose of the first row of the matrix Cwith the matrix Cgiven by

The icolumn Cof the matrix Cis equal to i times circularly shifted version of ichannel frequency response vector C i 0 1 . . . N 1. For example C c c . . . c .

An exponentially data weighted Kalman filter algorithm for the estimation of the icolumn Cof the matrix AC may be obtained from 61 with S m replaced by the estimate m and is given by 63 . 1 1 1 1 63a 1 1 63b 1 1 0 1 . . . 1 63c 

In 62 is the exponentially data weighting factor K m is the Kalman filter gain denotes complex conjugate m denotes the estimate of Cat time m and the initialization matrix R 0 may be selected to be equal to I for some small positive scalar with I denoting the identity matrix. The estimate of C C with Cdefined by 63 may be obtained by collating the estimates in 62c for i 0 1 . . . N 1 in the form of a matrix and is given by 64 . 1 1 0 1 . . . 64 

The estimate of Cmay be obtained by 65 wherein the matrix is obtained by replacing a by ain 39 . 0 1 . . . 65 

Referring to the matrix multiplier pre multiplies the input by the vector R m 1 m providing the Kalman gain K m given by 63b to the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier post multiplies the Kalman gain K m by the matrix m R m 1 inputted by the conjugate transpose block . The conjugate transpose block is inputted by the vector .

Referring to the product K m m R m 1 is subtracted from R m 1 provided by the delay by the adder . The output of the adder is multiplied by the factor 1 by the multiplier providing the matrix R m according to 63a . The matrix R m is delayed by the delay providing the delayed matrix R m 1 to the conjugate multiplier . Referring to the Kalman gain K m is provided to the matrix multiplier .

Referring to the estimate of the information baseband symbol vector m is inputted to the matrix multiplier for pre multiplication by the matrix m 1 provided by the transpose block . The transpose block is inputted with the matrix m 1 . The output m 1 m is made available to the adder . Referring to the signal vector Y m is inputted to the adder for providing the difference Y m m 1 m to the conjugate transpose block . The output of the conjugate transpose block is provided to the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier pre multiplies the conjugate transpose of the difference by the Kalman gain K m providing the correction term at the output of the matrix multiplier to the adder .

Referring to the estimate m 1 is inputted to the adder for providing the updated estimate m according to 64 . The updated estimate m is delayed by the delay providing the estimate m 1 to the component wise matrix multiplier .

Referring to the matrix is inputted to the component wise matrix multiplier for providing the estimate m 1 according to 65 . The estimate is transposed by providing the channel matrix m 1 at the output of the multichannel estimator .

Referring to the channel matrix m 1 provided by the multichannel estimator is inputted to the splitter . The splitter separates the columns of the matrix m 1 providing a through N 1 m 1 m 1 . . . m 1 wherein the icolumn m 1 of the channel matrix m 1 is the estimate of the i times circularly shifted version of ichannel frequency response vector Cfor i 0 1 . . . N 1.

Referring to the channel estimates m 1 is inputted to the matched filter block . Referring to the matched filter provides the output z m given by 1 0 1 . . . 1 1 2 . . . 66 

Referring to the matched filter outputs z m n 0 1 . . . N 1 are inputted to the scalar to vector converter for providing the vector z m comprised of the components z m to the equalizer .

Referring to the channel matrix m 1 provided by the multichannel estimator is inputted to the transfer matrix Qgenerator . The transfer matrix Qgenerator generates the N N matrix Qwith the k n element of the matrix given by 1 1 mod0 1 . . . 1 67

The result of the modulo N operation in 67 lies in the range of 0 to N 1 and is the ncolumn of the matrix given by 39 n 0 1 . . . N 1.

In 68 Qis the matrix obtained from Qwith the estimate m 1 replaced by the shifted channel frequency response vector C n 0 1 . . . N 1 S m is the symbol vector S m s m s m . . . s m and m is the noise present at the output of the matched filter block .

In 69 the matrix Qis the estimate of the matrix Qgiven by 67 and covariance matrix Rof the noise vector m may be estimated by a diagonal matrix with the 1diagonal element R given by 70 . 1 0 1 . . . 1 70 

Referring to the matrix Qis inputted to both the inputs of the conjugate multiplier for providing the output QQto the adder . The adder adds the noise covariance matrix Rto the input QQproviding the output QQ R to the matrix inverse block . The inverse block computes the inverse of the input matrix QQ R providing the inverse matrix QQ R to the matrix multiplier .

Referring to the scalar to vector converter output vector z m is inputted to the conjugate multiplier . The conjugate multiplier pre multiplies the vector z m by the matrix Qproviding the output Qz m to the matrix multiplier . The matrix multiplier pre multiplies the vector Qz m by the matrix QQ R providing the symbol vector estimate m given by 69 to the vector to scalar converter . Referring to the vector to scalar converter provides the symbol estimates a through N 1 m m . . . m at the output of the symbol estimator .

Various modifications and other embodiments of the invention applicable to various problems in Communication and other fields will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in the field of invention. For example the frequency chirp waveform may be selected to be different than the saw tooth waveform in various embodiments of the invention. In various embodiments of the invention the multiplicity N information baseband symbol periods may be possibly distinct integer multiples of the period of the frequency chirp waveforms. The orthogonal frequency chirp multiple accessing architectures of the invention can be readily modified and applied to various fields where such an architecture is applicable. Examples of such fields include Radars sonar digital audio systems and so on.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating other elements for purposes of clarity. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these and other elements may be desirable. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

In general it will be apparent that the embodiments described herein may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware for example based on Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA chips or implemented in Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICS . The software and firmware code may be executed by a computer or computing device comprising a processor e.g. a DSP or any other similar processing circuit including for example the computing device described below. The processor may be in communication with memory or another computer readable medium comprising the software code. The software code or specialized control hardware that may be used to implement embodiments is not limiting. For example embodiments described herein may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer software language type using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. According to various embodiments the software may be firmware stored at an EEPROM and or other non volatile memory associated with a DSP or other similar processing circuit. The operation and behavior of the embodiments may be described without specific reference to specific software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments based on the present description with no more than reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

In the example of the computing device comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs application programs and or program modules blocks to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device is shown in the context of a single processor architecture it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor. The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or non volatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include data ports analog to digital converters ADCs digital to analog converters DACs a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include data ports ADCs DACs a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative such substitution is within the intended scope of the embodiments.

While various embodiments have been described herein it should be apparent that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with attainment of at least some of the advantages. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope of the embodiments as set forth herein.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory machine readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The machine readable storage medium may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVDs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. For example the distribution of software may be an Internet download.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

