---

title: Method and system for enhanced conference call security
abstract: A method for controlling access by of communication devices to a conference call, the method comprising associating proximity settings with a conference call, the proximity settings indicating a acceptable proximity of other communication devices relative to a selected communication device; sensing by the selected communication device proximity of the other devices within its proximity of the communication device to obtain proximity information; and determining, by a processor, from the obtained proximity information and the proximity settings an action to be performed with reference to the conference call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374470&OS=09374470&RS=09374470
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09374470
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20141003
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 651 604 titled Method and System for Enhanced Conference Call Security filed Jan. 4 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 867 720 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to enterprise systems and more specifically to a method and system for providing improved conference call security.

Conference calls have traditionally been a third party hosted service. However more recently conference call systems both video and audio have evolved to where enterprise users now have the freedom to conduct quick and secure conferences from any location or device without the need for third party conference initiators or administrators to set up schedule or moderate conference calls. These conference users have the flexibility to be reached on traditional PBX Private Branch exchange desk sets VoIP Voice over IP WiFi cellular home office and even soft phones. Nevertheless despite this flexibility security boundaries must still be managed for the conference call.

Managing who is on a conference call can be an important feature to ensure the call is conducted efficiently and within its security boundaries. These security boundaries traditionally included restrictions on the participants. While techniques for validation of participants are known. There are situations where even if the user is authorized a company may not want an employee or conference call participant to participate in a conference call unless some other security criteria are satisfied.

For example if the conference call participant is using a speaker phone then others may be able to eavesdrop on the conversation if the participant is not in a secure location.

In conference calls with a long agenda participants or the moderator may find it useful to know when individuals enter and leave a call in order to ensure that the appropriate people are present for specific agenda items. Similarly in conference calls where a large number of people are in a room and on speakerphone with other participants it can be difficult to know who is still in the room as participants may enter and leave the room throughout the conference. Security may also become an issue if certain topics are only appropriate for a limited audience.

It is understood that absolute security may no be possible however there is still a need for a system and method to reduce security breaches in conference calls.

The present disclosure provides a method and system for improving conference call security by implementing control on access by the communication device used by the participants in a conference call. Specifically access control is based on the context of the device relative to access profiles which are enforced by the system prior to the device being allowed to participate in the conference call and while the device is participating in the conference call.

Accordingly the present disclosure provides a method for controlling access by of communication devices to a conference call the method comprising associating proximity settings with a conference call the proximity settings indicating a acceptable proximity of other communication devices relative to a selected communication device sensing by the selected communication device proximity of the other devices within its proximity of the communication device to obtain proximity information and determining by a processor from the obtained proximity information and the proximity settings an action to be performed with reference to the conference call.

The method of the present disclosure further provides for enforcing the proximity settings during the conference call. This can be done by periodically obtaining the proximity information or by having devices periodically transmit proximity information.

The present disclosure further provides a mechanism for a conference call planner to determine the proximity requirements.

In an embodiment the proximity requirements may be defined in a policy document or profile. The profile may be set by the conference call moderator and or by an authorized principal and are based on a policy type document that is either generated manually or through a user interface. In some instances corporate governance rules may provide a base policy document on which all created conference calls are based. This document could act as a template policy document that the conference call moderator leader could modify to establish a conference i.e. the restrictions can be set on a case by case basis . Additionally the system may be able to restrict the moderator in terms of what policies they may establish.

In a still further embodiment there is provided a system device for controlling access of a communication device to a conference call the device comprising a processor for associating proximity settings with a conference call the proximity settings indicating acceptable proximity of other communication devices relative to a communication device sensing by the communication device proximity of said other devices within proximity of the communication device to obtain proximity information and determining from the obtained proximity information and the proximity settings an action to be performed with reference to the conference call.

The present system and method is most advantageously implemented on a multi layer platform provided in the architecture of an enterprise system and is in communication with among other things a plurality of servers each configured for executing a corresponding application. The platform is configured for receiving and directing communications between application servers and a plurality of mobile devices.

Referring now to a system for directing media and data streams is provided and generally designated . The system includes an enterprise or business system that contains a wireless network in communication with at least one mobile device such as a WLAN or dual mode communication device configured for communicating with the wireless network as known in the art. The cellular network is located outside of the enterprise and is also in communication with at least one of the mobile devices such as a WAN or dual mode communication device as known in the art.

A Public Switched Telephony Network or PSTN and an Internet network are in communication with the enterprise and more specifically are in communication with corresponding servers provided in the enterprise as known in the art. The PSTN is also in communication with at least one telephone communication device and the Internet network is in communication with at least one computer . However it will be appreciated that the system is not limited to the networks or devices described herein.

A platform herein referred to as a Session Management Platform or SMP is provided within the enterprise and is configured for enabling execution of a plurality of applications through the use of one of a plurality of protocols. The SMP is configured to communicate with both the cellular network and the wireless network and for security purposes is preferably located behind a corporate firewall not shown . More specifically the SMP among other things takes in signaling from the mobile device and instructs corresponding servers in the enterprise how to direct the signaling to and from the mobile device which will be described in further detail below. It is to be understood that the SMP can either be a stand alone server as shown in and as described in the present application or it can be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component that enables the control agent to remotely control other servers not shown .

Referring still to the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication device and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP protocol will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of the enablers including among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers is used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

Turning now to the general operation of the system using SIP as the signaling protocol will be discussed although it is recognized that the present system is not limited to the processes discussed herein. provides a signaling diagram for a call originating from one of the mobile devices to a target phone connected to a Private Branch Exchange Server or PBX provided within the enterprise . First the device sends a mobile originated call request with its cellular number and the destination number of the target phone through the enterprise server to the SMP block . The SMP confirms the call request by sending the DNIS dialed number identification service number to the device block . Next the device makes a cellular call using the DNIS number which is received by the PBX block . As the DNIS has been configured in the PBX to be routed to the SMP via SIP T in response to the incoming call the PBX sends an invite over SIP T with the DNIS number to the SMP block . The SMP matches the incoming call with the expected call from the mobile and if correct acknowledges the invite by sending a 200 o.k. signal to the PBX indicating that the mobile call leg is established block .

The SMP then sets up the outgoing call leg to the destination. It does this by sending an invite over SIP L to the PBX with the destination number of the target phone block . SIP L is used so that the call can be correctly attributed to the individual within the organization within any call records that are being maintained by the PBX . When the invite is received the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block and the target phone answers the call block . When the target phone is answered the PBX sends a 200 o.k. signal to the SMP indicating that the target phone is ready to receive data block . The SMP then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX and shuffles the SDP Session Description Protocol as known to those of ordinary skill in the art to connect the call legs block . When the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 o.k. signal block to the SMP block and the users of the device and target phone can communicate with each other.

Note that between the cellular call leg being established and the outgoing call leg being answered the mobile user hears ringing tones. These ringing tones may be provided by the PBX using the presentation of early media from the outgoing call leg or they may be generated locally on the device if early media is not available. In the latter case it will be necessary to localize the ringing tone to match the tone normally heard with a call through the PBX .

The above description is known as a mobile initiated call because the SMP provides the mobile device with the DNIS number into which the mobile device has called. Alternatively the mobile originated call could be PBX initiated as shown in . Specifically in a PBX initiated call upon receipt of the mobile originated call request block the SMP confirms receipt of the call to the mobile device with an ANI number block which the mobile device uses to identify the incoming call from the PBX . The PBX then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number of the device and the ANI number that is attached to the outgoing call block . Upon receipt of the invite the PBX makes a cellular call to the device block which is answered by the device block . The device checks the ANI number in the incoming call to confirm if the number is actually from the PBX . If the ANI number is stripped for any particular reason then the device may be configured to answer the call as a regular cellular call or it may reject the call as unknown. When the device answers the PBX initiated call the PBX sends a 200 o.k. signal to the SMP indicating that the call leg to the device is established block .

In response the SMP sends an invite over SIP L with the destination number of the target phone to the PBX block . When the invite is received at the PBX the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block the target phone picks up the call block and a 200 o.k. signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP block indicating that the target phone is also ready to receive data. In response to the 200 o.k. the SMP sends an invite to the PBX shuffling the SDP to connect the call legs block . Finally when the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 o.k. signal to the SMP and the users of the device and target phone are able to communicate with each other.

In both instances the SMP is performing third party call control of the two call legs the PBX remaining in control of the call. The decision of whether to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call can be set by policy. Specifically the option to select either mobile initiated or PBX initiated calls is a feature provided in the SMP and an administrator for the enterprise can determine which setting to use. For example in some cases it may be more cost effective for the corporation to utilize PBX initiated calls rather than mobile initiated calls and vice versa. However it is appreciated that the system is not limited to the above processes.

In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the DNIS number and source details to the device block which is confirmed to the SMP block . In addition to confirming the call the mobile device sends a cellular call to the DNIS number at the PBX block . Again as the DNIS number is routed in the dialing plans to the SMP upon receipt of the cellular call the PBX sends an invite over SIP T to the SMP with the DNIS number block . In response to the invite a 200 o.k. signal is sent over SIP T from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the mobile device is established block . Finally the initial invite block is acknowledged with the 200 o.k. signal with the cellular SDP at which point the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

The diagram shown in illustrates a mobile initiated call because as discussed above with respect to the SMP presents the mobile device with the DNIS number at the PBX into which to call. However it is also possible to employ a PBX initiated mobile terminated call as shown in where the PBX sends an incoming call to the device with the ANI number of the target phone .

Specifically similar to the mobile initiated call described above and shown in the target phone sends an incoming call to the destination number of the device which is received at the PBX block . Upon receipt of the call the PBX sends an invite over SIP L to the SMP block with the source number of the target phone . In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the source number to the device block with the ANI number the device should expect in the incoming call the call request being confirmed by the device block . At this point in the PBX initiated call the SMP sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number and ANI number to use block prompting the PBX to make a cellular call to the device with the ANI number block prompting the device to ring. The device answers the call block and a 200 o.k. signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP acknowledging that the cellular call leg to the device is established block . In response a 200 o.k. signal is also sent from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the target phone is also established block . The SMP shuffles the SDP to connect the call legs the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

As discussed above with respect to the SMP remains in control of the signaling between the target phone and the mobile device in both the mobile initiated and PBX initiated calls. Again the decision to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call is based on policy and made by the administration of the organization. In some cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for the administrator to decide that PBX initiated calls should be used and in other cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for mobile initiated calls to be utilized. As these policy decisions may vary by organization and are not imperative to the scope of the present application they will not be discussed in further detail.

Attention will now be turned to the operation of a conference services application which enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise and is in communication with the conference services application preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Turning now to the basic initiation of a conference call utilizing the SIP protocol is provided. In the mobile device joins the conference call at the appropriate time by calling a specified dial in number and entering an access code as known in the art. However it is understood that other methods for joining a conference call are appropriate and the present application is not limited to those options discussed herein. For example the user of the mobile device could access their calendar select the scheduled conference call and the device could automatically dial the appropriate number without the need for an access code. Similarly the user could receive an alert that the conference call is approaching select an option to dial the appropriate number and be joined to the conference call. Optionally the user could access their email find the conference call invite and select the appropriate dial in number for joining the conference call.

Specifically and as shown in at the designated time of the conference call the mobile device sends a call request to the SMP block which the SMP confirms to the mobile device with the DNIS number block . Upon receipt of the confirmation the mobile device sends a cellular call to the DNIS number which is received at the PBX block . The PBX then sends an invite over SIP T associated with the DNIS number to the SMP block which in response sends an invite over SIP L to the PBX with the destination number for the conference call block . At this point the PBX dials the destination number to the conference server block and the SMP shuffles the media to connect the call legs block . Once connected to the conference server the user enters the access code into the mobile device if applicable enabling participation in the conference call.

Similar to the mobile originated call described with respect to the mobile originated call in is mobile initiated because the SMP provides the mobile device with a DNIS number at the PBX into which to call. Accordingly the mobile originated call to the conference server can also be PBX initiated which is shown in . Specifically the mobile device sends a call request to the destination number of the conference server which is received at the SMP block . Upon receipt of the call request the SMP confirms the call request to the device containing the expected ANI number of the call back block and instructs the PBX block to send a cellular call with an appropriate ANI number of the device block . The PBX then sends an invite over SIP T to the SMP block and the SMP sends an invite back to the PBX over SIP L with the destination number of the conference server block . The PBX dials the destination number to the conference server block at which point the SMP shuffles the media to connect the call legs block enabling the device to participate in the conference call.

Turning now to it is also possible for the conference server to fetch or bring the mobile device into the conference call at the appropriate time. It is contemplated that this can happen in a variety of ways and the present disclosure is not limited to those methods described herein. For example the mobile device could have previously accepted an invitation to the conference call of which the conference call server makes note calling the device at the appropriate time as known in the art. Alternatively the user of the mobile device could upon acceptance of the invitation elect to be dialed into the conference call at the appropriate time as also is known in the art. Such a fetch option may be beneficial to users who are unable to dial into the conference call at the desired time i.e. they are driving but still want to be included in the conference.

Specifically and as seen in the conference server sends an incoming call signal to the PBX block which then sends an invite over SIP T to the SMP block . Upon receipt of the invite the SMP sends an incoming data call to the mobile device block causing the device to ring and the call is confirmed answered by the mobile device block . The device then makes a cellular call to the DNIS number which is received at the PBX block . When the call is received the PBX sends an invite over SIP T associated with the DNIS number to the SMP block . In response to the invite the SMP shuffles the media to connect the call legs block enabling the conference server and device to communicate with each other on the call.

As mentioned above with respect to the decision to proceed with a mobile initiated call versus a PBX initiated call is a policy decision that is made by the administrator or someone within the organization. Further although discuss a mobile device joining a conference call it is appreciated that other communication devices may also be joined into the conference call such as telephones on the PSTN computers and the like. These communication devices would be joined to the conference call server in the same manner as that described above with respect to the mobile device and accordingly will not be described in further detail herein.

It may be further noted that the conference services may be network based outside the corporate environment as shown in . Furthermore the present methods and systems are to some extent described in the context of a PBX it is however understood that other telephony platforms may be used such as other premise hosted or network based telephony platforms including OCS LCS Microsoft s live communication server hosted office communication server SIP proxies centralized call processors H.248 transport servers and such like.

As mentioned earlier sometimes corporations may not want an employee or conference call participant to participate in a conference call unless they are in a secure location or on a secure device. As can be appreciated these security or access requirements can vary between organizations users etc. Hence the present disclosure describes in one aspect a generalized approach to ensuring consistent application of access requirements within an organization.

Accordingly referring to there is shown one mechanism for implementing an access policy. An access policy document is created which comprises a rule set representing an entire composed policy document for a conference call. The rule set may consist of one or more rules which specify conditions such as context attributes device state capabilities location presence etc. may be applied to establish the applicable set of rules or policy for a conference call. Note that as per IETF rfc 4745 section 10 it is possible to combine rules. This would allow rules to be combined in such a way to provide a policy which is equivalent to the intersection of conference server policy enterprise corporate policy and moderator policy . In other words the policy applied is the appropriate combining of the actions transforms for matching rules as defined in Section 10 . The various policy documents may be made available through an appropriate policy store .

For illustration purposes an example policy document for a given moderator is shown below which is implemented using RFC 4745 XML document.

The above is only an example of how policy could be achieved. Other mechanisms such as attribute masks may also be applied to derive appropriate policy on behalf of a proposed candidate conference participant in order to qualify disqualify them from actually participating in a conference call.

Referring now to there is shown a flow diagram of an exemplary method for creating modifying the policy documents. At step a user interface is displayed in a manner known in the art for a moderator to enter or modify access requirements in the policy document . This can be done for the organization as a whole or on a case by case basis for conference calls. At step restrictions as deemed appropriate are input and at step the appropriate policy document is created or updated. Identification may also be included with the policy document to the conference call for later auditing or logging purposes. The restrictions created in step could also be transformed into policy or policy document in step .

Referring now to there is shown a flow diagram of an exemplary method for providing improved security for conference calls which is implemented on the conference platform of the present disclosure. The method can be included as part of the functionality of the conference services application in the SMP the conference server or both. Beginning in step a signal is received from a communication device seeking to participate in a conference call. This could be as a result of a device initiated request conference server request PBX request SMP request or even a fetch by a moderator or participant. At a next step the system obtains appropriate contextual attributes for the requesting device. These attributes may be sent automatically by the device when it attempts to connect to the conference or may be requested by the conference system. In some cases the SMP may be able to auto authenticate certain devices. Moreover the presence server could be used to aid in establishing the state and or device capabilities of the device and or the user to provide contextual attributes of the device. In the case of location information the conference server or policy evaluation mechanism could request location information from a location server. Further the conference server may act in the role of a watcher and subscribe fetch the state of a potential conference participant.

At a step the process evaluates these attributes against the access requirements set in the access policy document in . Depending on the restrictions set by the access policy document the appropriate contextual attributes may include such things as the location of the device an identification of the type of device if there is a limit on the type of device that can be used to participate in a conference call or the type of peripherals used by the terminal. In some instance these attributes may be a combination of attributes for example if a conference call participant is not in the office or at home restrictions could be placed such that they can only participate in the conference call if they use a device with a headset attached. Using the speakerphone on the device would not be allowed because it is not secure. Restrictions could also be applied to the type of peripherals used by the terminal. For example a Bluetooth headset may not be considered secure enough when the device is not within the corporate campus so only a wired headset is allowed in this circumstance. As mentioned with reference to the access policy may be a join or overlay of different policies retrieved from a policy store which may be located conveniently within the enterprise or business system .

At step a determination is made as to whether the policy is satisfied. A No determination by step results in a failed security determination and denial of access to the conference call for the caller. A YES determination at step causes the caller to be granted access . The system may implement a variety of actions at step to notify the device of the denial of access notify the user or do nothing.

Still further at step the devices may be reevaluated against the policy to ensure that the policy is maintained during the call.

In a further embodiment the presence server could operate with the location positioning platform by initiating positioning requests for a given communication device. When the device calls to join the conference the presence server can determine if the device is in an appropriate place to be connected to the call.

Accordingly the present matter implements a system that limits the type of device that can be used to participate in a conference call and also base the limitation on the location of the device.

In a still further embodiment of the disclosure a conference call can be set to have a specific security restriction such as restricting the location including the surroundings of the device being used for the call. For example a communication device having functionality to sense other devices can be used for a conference call. In this case the communication device can sense if other communication devices such as Bluetooth enabled mobile phones are within its proximity and has the comparable configurable communication methods available to be used. As mentioned before the presence server can capture the sate of a device associated with a place e.g. Conference bridge room or user. In some cases a client application on the device can process presence information or other information to derive that an invalid device is in its proximity. If so the device can refuse to connect to the call or can restrict the use of its speakerphone. If the communication device is using speakerphone on the conference call then as the other devices enter the room or its proximity the communication device attached to the conference call senses them. Alternatively the conference server could do this as noted earlier.

A prompt or notification may be sent to the conference call moderator. The owner of these sensed devices could be validated against a list of call invitees such that if they are not on the invitee list the conference call is placed on hold until the user of the other device is registered as a participant or they leave the room. Alternatively the moderator could be notified via an announcement. The moderator could then verbally suspend discussion in order to allow the unauthorized user to leave.

Furthermore the call can be restricted if certain devices are not within the proximity of the communication device attached to the call. For example if a participant has an identification id badge which is remotely detectable when the id badge is in close proximity to the communication device the device will connect to the conference call if the participant walks away from the device or the id badge is out of proximity from the device the call is dropped or put on hold until the proximity condition is met.

In the case where the badge may be misplaced or stolen it may be possible for the conference call user to navigate to a web site to authenticate and receive a one time key which they must enter along with their individual password to gain entry to the conference call. If the person is unable to unlock their device it is possible they could initiate an Emergency call function to call a conference call service number. This service number after authenticating the user could perhaps send an unlock code via the Relay or through some other mechanism to the device to unlock it at which time the conference call user must re apply a device specific lock password . The user could then use the web service to obtain the conference code key based on conference details authorization provided and follow the steps previously mentioned.

Similarly for low security calls as individuals enter a room their identity is immediately added to the moderator s list of call participants. Similarly as the leave the room their status is updated on the moderator s list.

Referring now to there is shown a flow diagram of an exemplary method for managing conference call participation based on proximity of devices. At step a communication device is connected to the conference call. It is assumed that the connected device has the functionality to detect the presence of other devices such as other communication devices or short range communication devices as such as blue tooth enabled devices etc. Alternatively it is assumed that the conference server or some other service is able to provide this information. At step the connected device obtains proximity settings requirements for the conference call . These setting may be determined by the conference moderator or by corporate policy and may be included in the policy document described earlier. At step other devices in proximity to the connected device are sensed in a manner as described earlier. If at step devices are found the proximity of these devices are evaluated against the proximity settings at step . If the sensed devices satisfy the proximity settings at step then the connected device can take appropriate action . For example these actions may include the device refusing to connect to the conference call or dropping the connection placing the call on hold or muting a speakerphone. These actions can be easily defined in an action section of the policy document.

Still further the connected device may notify the moderator or provide a list of the sensed devices to a moderator. It is usually a requirement that participants can only join a call once the moderator has established the conference call.

Additionally depending on the security requirements the device may validate the sensed devices against a list of call invitees. If one or more of the senses devices are not on the invitee list then one or more of the actions above may be undertaken. Alternatively the device may place the call on hold until the user of the other device is registered as a participant or they leave the room based on the proximity settings .

Conversely the conference call can be restricted if certain devices are not within the proximity of the connected device as shown in additional steps and . In this case too an action can be defined by the policy document.

Finally a log of who was present and at what time they entered left the room proximity could be retained for meeting minutes legal purposes if applicable. This log or journal may also capture the policy evaluation steps performed by the conference call server for the duration of a given call.

As mentioned the proximity settings may also be specified in the policy document described above. For example the content or sub elements of condition action transformations may differ e.g. a condition may be based on location i.e. location work .

While a particular embodiment of the present method and system for directing communication streams has been described herein it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the disclosure in its broadest aspects and as set forth in the following claims.

