---

title: Rule-based rate limiting
abstract: Methods, devices, and machine-readable media are provided to perform rule-based rate limiting. As provided in this disclosure, this may include receiving a message en route to a destination, determining one or more parameters of the message, and determining whether the parameters of the message match parameters of a rule that specifies taking a first action when more than some number of messages having those parameters are received within a specific amount of time. When the one or more parameters of the message match the one or more parameters of the first restriction rule, a sliding window counter that indicates a total number of corresponding messages received within the amount of time may be incremented. When the first sliding window counter exceeds the first number of messages, the specified action may be taken.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660948&OS=09660948&RS=09660948
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09660948
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140623
---
This disclosure relates to controlling access to electronic devices via application programming interface API restrictions and more specifically to device state based message limiting and or rule based rate limiting of access to an electronic device to preserve a user experience with the electronic device

This section is intended to introduce the reader to various aspects of art that may be related to various aspects of the present disclosure which are described and or claimed below. This discussion is believed to be helpful in providing the reader with background information to facilitate a better understanding of the various aspects of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be understood that these statements are to be read in this light and not as admissions of prior art.

People interact with a number of different electronic devices on a daily basis. In a home setting for example a person may interact with smart thermostats lighting systems alarm systems entertainment systems and a variety of other electronic devices. To interact with some of these electronic devices a person may communicate a command using an application program running on another electronic device. For instance a person may control the temperature setting on a smart thermostat using an application program running on a smartphone. The application program may communicate with a secure online service that interacts with that thermostat.

To preserve the user experience associated with an electronic device the manufacturer of the electronic device may also develop the application programs to control the electronic device. Opening access to the electronic devices to third party developers however may potentially improve the experience of some people with the devices but only if third party application programs do not cause the electronic devices to behave in an undesirable manner. Moreover even electronic devices of the same type may have characteristics e.g. battery level and or charging rate that vary among different installations of the devices. For instance some smart thermostats may recharge internal batteries using a main 120V or 240V building power supply while others of the same type may recharge batteries using a much more limited supply of power. Thus allowing third party developers unfettered access to these electronic devices introduces a risk that the operation of some of the electronic devices and thus the user experience associated with those devices may suffer.

A summary of certain embodiments disclosed herein is set forth below. It should be understood that these aspects are presented merely to provide the reader with a brief summary of these certain embodiments and that these aspects are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. Indeed this disclosure may encompass a variety of aspects that may not be set forth below.

According to embodiments of this disclosure device state based message limiting and or rule based rate limiting may enable third party applications to access different installations of devices e.g. via an application programming interface API without potentially negatively impacting the operation of and thus the user experience with those devices. Namely the third party applications may communicate not directly with a target device e.g. a smart home device such as a smart thermostat but rather through a device service. The device service may perform device state based message limiting by deciding whether to provide or not to provide a corresponding update signal to the target device based on one or more factors such as an operation status parameter of the device.

Such an operation status parameter may include for example a current battery level charging rate device age planned device lifespan recent wireless usage internal temperature and or the operation status parameters of other connected devices that are being used to access the smart home device. Since parameters like these may vary from device to device even for devices of the same type and or within the same smart home environment the device service may tailor device state based message limiting of communication to different devices according to their possibly unique operation status parameters.

Additionally or alternatively the device service may rate limit the number of incoming messages to prevent the target device the device service itself or both from becoming overwhelmed with certain messages according to parameterized rules. This rule based rate limiting may involve determining parameters of the messages and rate limiting the messages according to the rules that involve the same parameters. For example messages may be parsed to determine which instance of an application and or which unique user sent the message. Rules may be defined according to these parameters. An application instance and or a user may be permitted for example to send only so many messages during any given first time period e.g. 20 messages per minute and any given second time period e.g. 60 messages per hour . Thus messages having parameters that match the parameters of a rule may be counted using a sliding window counter that counts those messages received within some specified amount of time e.g. within the last minute or within the last hour . When the count of a sliding window counter exceeds a certain limit e.g. a count of 20 messages received within the last minute the device service may take a restrictive action. For example the device service may block redirect or delay the message and or may respond to the sender of the message with an error or warning message.

Using rule based rate limiting the device service may enable messages to be rate limited in a highly extendable way. Indeed any suitable number of rules may be generated based on any suitable number of parameters that may be parsed and or ascertained from the messages received by the device service. Moreover in certain examples message tracking e.g. counting messages with parameters that match certain rules using sliding window counters may take place asynchronously to the receipt of the messages while message restriction e.g. performing a restrictive action when the number of messages in a sliding window exceeds a limit may take place substantially synchronously. This may reduce the latency that rate limiting can introduce. Namely asynchronous message tracking may be used to determine whether to restrict future messages having certain parameters e.g. by causing the device service to take a restrictive action when a sliding window count of such messages exceeds a limit . By making the decision of whether to restrict certain types of messages asynchronously the processing time for making this decision does not hold up the message as it passes through the device service. In one particular example asynchronous message tracking may involve maintaining a sliding window count of messages deriving from a particular instance of an application associated with a particular user. The sliding window count may be updated as messages from the application user are received without slowing the passage of the message while the count is updated. When the sliding window count exceeds a certain limit however a synchronous restriction flag may be set. The synchronous restriction flag may cause the messages to be synchronously restricted e.g. to cause the device service to take certain restrictive action . This may permit even very complex rule based rate limiting while reducing the amount of latency that such complex rate limiting rules would introduce.

As provided in this disclosure rule based rate limiting may include receiving a message en route to a destination determining one or more parameters of the message and determining whether the parameters of the message match parameters of a rule that specifies taking a first action when more than some number of messages having those parameters are received within a specific amount of time. When the one or more parameters of the message match the one or more parameters of the first restriction rule a sliding window counter that indicates a total number of corresponding messages received within the amount of time may be incremented. When the first sliding window counter exceeds the first number of messages the specified action may be taken.

In another example a tangible non transitory machine readable medium may include instructions to receive messages en route to a server. Each of the messages may have one or more message parameters. The instructions may also include synchronously to the receipt of the messages filtering the messages as the messages are received using one or more parameterized filters. The one or more parameterized filters may take an action on a message having message parameters that match corresponding parameters of one or more first rules. The instructions may also include asynchronously to the receipt of the messages updating the one or more parameterized filters based at least in part on one or more respective counts of messages having message parameters that match corresponding parameters of one or more second rules.

In another example an electronic device includes a network interface memory and a processor. The network interface may receive messages deriving from a first instance of a first application and associated with a first user. The memory may store processor executable instructions. The processor may execute the processor executable instructions to process the messages by maintaining a first sliding window counter that counts all messages received from the first application instance associated with the first user that have been recently received within a first certain amount of time and taking one or more restrictive actions when the first sliding window exceeds a first limit.

In another example a method includes receiving a message en route to a first destination into an electronic device the message having associated therewith one or more parameters and rate limiting the message. The message may be rate limited by determining whether the one or more parameters of the message match one or more corresponding parameters of a restriction rule and when there is a match determining whether a restriction flag has been set that corresponds to the restriction rule. When the restriction flag has been set a restricting action may be taken in relation to the message. When there is no match or when the restriction flag has not been set the message may be passed without taking the restricting action. In either case the message may be counted in a sliding window counter and whether or not to set the restriction flag may be determined based at least in part on the count of messages in the sliding window counter.

Various refinements of the features noted above may exist in relation to various aspects of the present disclosure. Further features may also be incorporated in these various aspects as well. These refinements and additional features may exist individually or in any combination. For instance various features discussed below in relation to one or more of the illustrated embodiments may be incorporated into any of the above described aspects of the present disclosure alone or in any combination. The brief summary presented above is intended only to familiarize the reader with certain aspects and contexts of embodiments of the present disclosure without limitation to the claimed subject matter.

One or more specific embodiments will be described below. In an effort to provide a concise description of these embodiments not all features of an actual implementation are described in the specification. It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it should be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure.

A number of smart home devices may serve the inhabitants of a home. For example a smart thermostat such as the Nest Learning Thermostat by Nest Labs Inc. a company of Google Inc. may learn the inhabitants behavior and adjust the temperature to suit their preferences. A smart hazard detector such as the Nest Protect by Nest Labs may communicate with other smart home devices while performing hazard detection functions to keep the inhabitants safe. While it may be possible for users to interact with the smart home devices directly e.g. via a user interface on the smart thermostat or a button on the smart hazard detector it may also be possible for users to interact with the smart home devices indirectly e.g. via an application executing on a mobile device such as a smartphone via an application executing on a centralized home automation controller via an application executing within a dashboard of a vehicle etc. While it is clearly desirable and in my cases typical for the same entity that designs manufactures and sells the smart home devices themselves to also design and distribute technologies for indirect control of those smart home devices it may also be desirable for that entity to enable other entities to design and distribute technologies for indirect control of those smart home devices. For example by opening up monitoring and control of those smart home devices to third parties innovative uses of those smart home devices and levels of integration of those devices with what may initially be perceived as entirely unrelated devices may advantageously be realized so as to facilitate consumer benefits and technology synergies that may have gone unrealized absent such collaboration.

However providing third parties with unrestricted access to interact with the smart home devices may disadvantageously result in unintended and potentially undesirable consequences. For example unfettered access may cause the smart home devices to behave in an unsatisfactory manner fail to operate as intended or otherwise result in an undesirable user experience. In some particular instances smart home devices may be particularly power conscious. For example smart thermostats may have relatively low capacity rechargeable batteries coupled with a relatively low current recharging source. For another example smart hazard detectors may only be equipped with non rechargeable batteries while it is desired to maximize the lifetime of those batteries. Notwithstanding these power limitations it should be appreciated that interactions with the smart home devices may necessarily require consumption of electrical energy by those devices. For example requesting a current indoor temperature from a smart thermostat via an indirect monitoring device may require the smart thermostat to transition from a sleep mode to an awake mode actuate a processor to obtain sensor measurements and or enable a Wifi chip to wirelessly communicate those sensor measurements to the indirect monitoring device. Similarly setting a current setpoint temperature on the smart thermostat via an indirect monitoring device may require the smart thermostat to transition from a sleep mode to an awake mode enable a Wifi chip to wirelessly receive the desired setpoint temperature from the indirect monitoring device and or actuate a processor configure operation of the smart thermostat in accordance with the desired setpoint temperature.

According to embodiments of this disclosure device state based message limiting may enable third party devices and or applications to access smart home devices e.g. via an application programming interface API while reducing the likelihood that the third party interaction will negatively impact operation of and thus the user experience with those devices. In some embodiments the third party devices and or applications may communicate directly with the smart home device via either a wired or wirelessly connection. In other embodiments however the third party devices and or applications may communicate indirectly with a smart home device via a cloud based device service. In either case device state based message limiting may be imposed on the third party devices and or applications via e.g. the smart home device itself the API the cloud based device service etc. based on operation status parameters of the device. The operation status parameters generally characterize current historical and or future operational characteristics of the smart home device and may include for example a current battery level charging rate device age planned device lifespan recent wireless usage internal temperature current operation of the device e.g. sleeping awake Wifi active inactive executing a demand response algorithm executing a time to temperature algorithm etc. and or the current historical and or future operational characteristics of other connected devices associated with the smart home environment.

Such device state based message limiting may be implemented in any one or more of a number of different fashions. For example it may be implemented as a limit in the number of communications sent from the cloud based device service to the smart home device on behalf of the third party device application in a given period of time the number of communications sent from the third party device application to the smart home device via the API in a given period of time the number of communications received and or processed by the smart home device that were sent from a third party device application etc.

In one particular example device state based message limiting may be imposed on communications sent to a smart home device from a cloud based service based on a battery level of the smart home device. Specifically to ensure that third party communications targeted to a particular device do not cause the battery level to drain too quickly the device service may only provide a corresponding update signal to the device when the battery level is sufficiently high in relation to the charging rate of the battery. Similarly if the smart home device does not have a rechargeable battery the battery level may be compared against the current age of the device and its planned lifespan. The device service may or may not provide the device update signal based on whether the battery level is likely to allow the device to meet or exceeds its planned lifespan.

It should be appreciated that limiting communication to a single maximum rate of communication e.g. 1 session per minute may not suffice for all devices. That is different devices even those of the same type such as installations of smart hazard detectors throughout a house may behave much differently even with communication limited to the same maximum rate. For example some smart home devices may have a dedicated 120V or 240V power supply by which the batteries of these devices can charge. These devices may support under many conditions a relatively high device access rate. On the other hand some smart home devices may have a very limited power supply by which the batteries of these devices can charge or may not even be rechargeable at all . A relatively high device access rate could cause the batteries to drain too fast to be replenished for normal usage. Accordingly these devices may not be able to support the same relatively high device access rate without increasing the risk that device operation may be negatively impacted.

Additionally or alternatively the device service may rate limit the number of incoming messages to prevent the target device the device service itself or both from becoming overwhelmed with certain messages according to parameterized rules. This rule based device state based message limiting may involve determining parameters of the messages and rate limiting the messages according to the rules that involve the same parameters. For example messages may be parsed to determine which instance of an application and or which unique user sent the message. Rules may be defined according to these parameters. An application instance and or a user may be permitted for example to send only so many messages during any given first time period e.g. 20 messages per minute and any given second time period e.g. 60 messages per hour . Thus messages having parameters that match the parameters of a rule may be counted using a sliding window counter that counts those messages received within some specified amount of time e.g. within the last minute or within the last hour . When the count of a sliding window counter exceeds a certain limit e.g. a count of 20 messages received within the last minute the device service may take a restrictive action. For example the device service may block redirect or delay the message and or may respond to the sender of the message with an error or warning message.

Using rule based device state based message limiting the device service may enable messages to be rate limited in a highly extendable way. Indeed any suitable number of rules may be generated based on any suitable number of parameters that may be parsed and or ascertained from the messages received by the device service. Moreover in certain examples message tracking e.g. counting messages with parameters that match certain rules using sliding window counters may take place asynchronously to the receipt of the messages while message restriction e.g. performing a restrictive action when the number of messages in a sliding window exceeds a limit may take place substantially synchronously. This may reduce the latency that device state based message limiting can introduce. Namely asynchronous message tracking may be used to determine whether to restrict future messages having certain parameters e.g. by causing the device service to take a restrictive action when a sliding window count of such messages exceeds a limit . By making the decision of whether to restrict certain types of messages asynchronously the processing time for making this decision does not hold up the message as it passes through the device service. In one particular example asynchronous message tracking may involve maintaining a sliding window count of messages deriving from a particular instance of an application associated with a particular user. The sliding window count may be updated as messages from the application user are received without slowing the passage of the message while the count is updated. When the sliding window count exceeds a certain limit however a synchronous restriction flag may be set. The synchronous restriction flag may cause the messages to be synchronously restricted e.g. to cause the device service to take certain restrictive action . This may permit even very complex rule based device state based message limiting while reducing the amount of latency that such complex rate limiting rules would introduce.

The various systems methods devices and computer program products of this disclosure may be used to maintain a level of quality of the user experience for any suitable number and type of electronic devices. This disclosure will describe device state based message limiting and rule based device state based message limiting in the context of a smart home environment that includes at least one smart home device. The systems methods devices and computer program products of this disclosure however may provide substantial benefits to communication with any suitable electronic devices in any suitable environment. In other words performing device state based message limiting and or rule based device state based message limiting may be used in any suitable number of contexts whether in a smart home environment or otherwise.

By way of introduction is a block diagram of one example of a smart home device . In one embodiment the smart home device may include one or more sensors a user interface component a power supply e.g. including a power connection and or battery a network interface memory and one or more processors . These components are intended to be representative and are not intended to be exhaustive. By way of example the smart home device may be a Nest Learning Thermostat 1st Generation T100577 a Nest Learning Thermostat 2nd Generation T200577 or a Nest Protect each of which is made by Nest Labs Inc. a company of Google Inc.

The sensor s may detect various properties of the environment of the smart home device and or properties of the smart home device itself. These may include acceleration temperature indoor temperature device temperature etc. humidity water supplied power proximity external motion device motion sound signals ultrasound signals light signals fire smoke carbon monoxide global positioning satellite GPS signals radio frequency RF other electromagnetic signals or fields or the like. As such the sensor s may include temperature sensor s humidity sensor s hazard related sensor s or other environmental sensor s accelerometer s microphone s optical sensors up to and including camera s e.g. charged coupled device or video cameras active or passive radiation sensors GPS receiver s or radiofrequency identification detector s etc. In some instances the smart home device may include one or more primary sensors and one or more secondary sensors. For example the primary sensor s may sense data central to the core operation of the device e.g. sensing a temperature in a thermostat or sensing smoke in a smoke detector while the secondary sensor s may sense other types of data e.g. motion light or sound which can be used for energy efficiency objectives or smart operation objectives.

One or more user interface components in the smart home device may receive input from the user and or present information to the user when the user interacts in person with the smart home device . For example the user may mechanically move a sliding component e.g. along a vertical or horizontal track or rotate a rotatable ring e.g. along a circular track to adjust a temperature setting. The power supply component may include a power connection and or a local battery. For example the power connection may connect the smart home device to a power source such as a line voltage source. In some instances an AC power source can be used to repeatedly charge a e.g. rechargeable local battery such that the battery may be used later to supply power to the smart home device when the AC power source is not available. In cases where the smart home device does not have access to an external supply of power the power supply component may be a non rechargeable battery that is sized appropriately to last at least as long as a planned lifespan of the smart home device under normal operating conditions. The network interface may include a component that enables the smart home device to communicate between devices. As such the network interface may enable the smart home device to communicate with other devices via a wired or wireless network. The network interface may include a wireless card or some other transceiver connection to facilitate this communication. In some embodiments the network interface may includes multiple networking components to facilitate communications over a variety of networking protocols and or communication architectures. For example the network interface may include multiple wireless communication components such as a low power wireless communication component e.g. an IEEE 802.15.4. wireless transceiver and a high power wireless communication component e.g. an IEEE 802.11 wireless transceiver . In at least one embodiment in a sleep mode the high power wireless communication component may be disabled or otherwise inoperative while the low power wireless communication component may listen for communications to the device . Upon receiving some communications in at least one embodiment the low power wireless communication component may perform an initial analysis on the received communication and determine whether to wake up the device e.g. actuate the high power processor or other processor to perform some operation based on the received communication .

Memory may store instructions to execute on the processor s . In one example the memory may include an article of manufacture such as flash memory a hard drive random access memory or the like. The processor s may include a general purpose processor that carries out computer code stored in the memory device a special purpose processor or application specific integrated circuit or some combination of these. The processor s may also represent any other suitable type of hardware firmware software processing platforms. In certain embodiments the processor s includes a high power processor that may execute computationally intensive operations such as operating the user interface component and the like and a low power processor that may manage less complex processes such as detecting a hazard or temperature from the sensor . In one embodiment the low power processor may wake or initialize the high power processor for computationally intensive processes.

By way of example when the processor s includes both a high power processor and a low power processor the low power processor may detect when a location e.g. a house or room is occupied i.e. includes a presence of a human and or whether it is occupied by a specific person or is occupied by a specific number of people e.g. relative to one or more thresholds . In one embodiment this detection can occur by analyzing microphone signals detecting user movements e.g. in front of a device detecting openings and closings of doors or garage doors detecting wireless signals detecting an internet protocol IP address of a received signal detecting operation of one or more devices within a time window or any other suitable techniques. The high power processor and the low power processor may include image recognition technology to identify particular occupants or objects. In certain embodiments the high power processor and the low power processor may detect the presence of a human using a passive infrared PIR sensor .

In some instances the high power processor of the processor s may predict desirable settings and or implement those settings. For example based on the presence detection the high power processor may adjust device settings to e.g. conserve power when nobody is home or in a particular room or to accord with user preferences e.g. general at home preferences or user specific preferences . As another example based on the detection of a particular person animal or object e.g. a child pet or lost object the high power processor may initiate an audio or visual indicator of where the person animal or object is or may initiate an alarm or security feature if an unrecognized person is detected under certain conditions e.g. at night or when lights are off .

In some instances devices may interact with each other such that events detected by a first device influences actions of a second device. For example a first device can detect that a user has entered into a garage e.g. by detecting motion in the garage detecting a change in light in the garage or detecting opening of the garage door . The first device can transmit this information to a second device via the network interface such that the second device can e.g. adjust a home temperature setting a light setting a music setting and or a security alarm setting. As another example a first device can detect a user approaching a front door e.g. by detecting motion or sudden light pattern changes . The first device may e.g. cause a general audio or visual signal to be presented e.g. such as sounding of a doorbell or cause a location specific audio or visual signal to be presented e.g. to announce the visitor s presence within a room that a user is occupying .

Keeping the foregoing in mind illustrates an example of a smart home environment within which one or more of the smart home devices of methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. It will be appreciated that devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure . Notwithstanding the provision of a smart home environment and subsequent description of various embodiments of accessing electronic devices provided within the smart home environment it should be appreciated that the various rate limiting techniques described herein may be similarly applicable to non smart home environments. For example it may be desirable to apply similar rate limiting techniques to mobile devices e.g. wearables such as smart phones smart glasses smart watches smart shoes etc. in vehicle electronics e.g. car navigation units radar detectors audio radio components etc. or other electronic devices outside of the smart environment environment .

The depicted structure includes a number of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a number of smart home devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats hereinafter referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected multi sensing hazard detection units hereinafter referred to as smart hazard detectors and one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected entryway interface devices hereinafter referred to as smart doorbells and one or more intelligent network connected door locks hereinafter referred to as smart door locks . According to embodiments the smart thermostat may include a Nest Learning Thermostat 1st Generation T100577 or Nest Learning Thermostat 2nd Generation T200577 by Nest Labs Inc. among others. The smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly.

The smart hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart hazard detector may include a Nest Protect that may include sensor s such as smoke sensors carbon monoxide sensors and the like. As such the hazard detector may determine when smoke fire or carbon monoxide may be present within the building.

The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupants go and come . The smart doorbell may interact with other devices based on whether someone has approached or entered the smart home environment . The smart door locks may may detect and toggle between a locked and unlocked condition for doors in the home detect a person s approach to or departure from a respective door detect whether a door is open or closed or other suitable controls associated with a smart door lock .

In some embodiments the smart home environment further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches hereinafter referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces hereinafter referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Still further in some embodiments the smart home device within the smart home environment may further includes a number of intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances hereinafter referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances are made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the smart hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the smart hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart door locks the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment are modular and can be incorporated into older and new houses. For example the smart home devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate which is also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensor s processor s user interfaces the power supply the network interface and other functional components of the devices described above.

Many different commercial and functional possibilities for provisioning maintenance and upgrade are possible. For example after years of using any particular head unit a user will be able to buy a new version of the head unit and simply plug it into the old docking station. There are also many different versions for the head units such as low cost versions with few features and then a progression of increasingly capable versions up to and including extremely fancy head units with a large number of features. Thus it should be appreciated that the various versions of the head units can all be interchangeable with any of them working when placed into any docking station. This can advantageously encourage sharing and re deployment of old head units for example when an important high capability head unit such as a hazard detector is replaced by a new version of the head unit then the old head unit can be re deployed to a back room or basement etc. According to embodiments when first plugged into a docking station the head unit can ask the user by 2D LCD display 2D D holographic projection voice interaction etc. a few simple questions such as Where am I and the user can indicate living room kitchen and so forth.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information is then used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering such data may include sun location information temperature dewpoint soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A web page or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control the smart thermostat and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant can use their registered device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use their registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering devices the smart home environment makes inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some instances guests desire to control the smart devices. For example the smart home environment may receive communication from an unregistered mobile device of an individual inside of the home where said individual is not recognized as an occupant of the home. Further for example a smart home environment may receive communication from a mobile device of an individual who is known to be or who is registered as a guest.

According to embodiments a guest layer of controls can be provided to guests of the smart home environment . The guest layer of controls gives guests access to basic controls e.g. a judicially selected subset of features of the smart devices such as temperature adjustments but it locks out other functionalities. The guest layer of controls can be thought of as a safe sandbox in which guests have limited controls but they do not have access to more advanced controls that could fundamentally alter undermine damage or otherwise impair the occupant desired operation of the smart devices. For example the guest layer of controls will not permit the guest to adjust the heat pump lockout temperature.

A use case example of this is when a guest is in a smart home the guest could walk up to the thermostat and turn the dial manually but the guest may not want to walk around the house hunting the thermostat especially at night while the home is dark and others are sleeping. Further the guest may not want to go through the hassle of downloading the necessary application to their device for remotely controlling the thermostat. In fact the guest may not have the home owner s login credentials etc. and therefore cannot remotely control the thermostat via such an application. Accordingly according to embodiments of the invention the guest can open a mobile browser on their mobile device type a keyword such as NEST into the URL field and tap Go or Search etc. In response the device presents the guest with a user interface which allows the guest to move the target temperature between a limited range such as 65 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. As discussed the user interface provides a guest layer of controls that are limited to basic functions. The guest cannot change the target humidity modes or view energy history.

According to embodiments to enable guests to access the user interface that provides the guest layer of controls a local webserver is provided that is accessible in the local area network LAN . It does not require a password because physical presence inside the home is established reliably enough by the guest s presence on the LAN. In some embodiments during installation of the smart device such as the smart thermostat the home owner is asked if they want to enable a Local Web App LWA on the smart device. Business owners will likely say no home owners will likely say yes. When the LWA option is selected the smart device broadcasts to the LAN that the above referenced keyword such as NEST is now a host alias for its local web server. Thus no matter whose home a guest goes to that same keyword e.g. NEST is always the URL you use to access the LWA provided the smart device is purchased from the same manufacturer. Further according to embodiments if there is more than one smart device on the LAN the second and subsequent smart devices do not offer to set up another LWA. Instead they register themselves as target candidates with the master LWA. And in this case the LWA user would be asked which smart device they want to change the temperature on before getting the simplified user interface for the particular smart device they choose.

According to embodiments a guest layer of controls may also be provided to users by means other than a device . For example the smart device such as the smart thermostat may be equipped with walkup identification technology e.g. face recognition RFID ultrasonic sensors that fingerprints or creates a signature for the occupants of the home. The walkup identification technology can be the same as or similar to the fingerprinting and signature creating techniques described in other sections of this application. In operation when a person who does not live in the home or is otherwise not registered with the smart home or whose fingerprint or signature is not recognized by the smart home walks up to a smart device the smart device provides the guest with the guest layer of controls rather than full controls.

As described below the smart thermostat and other smart devices learn by observing occupant behavior. For example the smart thermostat learns occupants preferred temperature set points for mornings and evenings and it learns when the occupants are asleep or awake as well as when the occupants are typically away or at home for example. According to embodiments when a guest controls the smart devices such as the smart thermostat the smart devices do not learn from the guest. This prevents the guest s adjustments and controls from affecting the learned preferences of the occupants.

According to some embodiments a smart television remote control is provided. The smart remote control recognizes occupants by thumbprint visual identification RFID etc. and it recognizes a user as a guest or as someone belonging to a particular class having limited control and access e.g. child . Upon recognizing the user as a guest or someone belonging to a limited class the smart remote control only permits that user to view a subset of channels and to make limited adjustments to the settings of the television and other devices. For example a guest cannot adjust the digital video recorder DVR settings and a child is limited to viewing child appropriate programming.

According to some embodiments similar controls are provided for other instruments utilities and devices in the house. For example sinks bathtubs and showers can be controlled by smart spigots that recognize users as guests or as children and therefore prevent water from exceeding a designated temperature that is considered safe.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the smart devices of the home e.g. and or among any other suitable smart devices that may be found in the home collectively referred to as the smart devices may be capable of data communications and information sharing with other of the smart devices and or to a central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The data communications can be carried out using any of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. .

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart device via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a central server or a cloud computing system device service . The central server or cloud computing system device service can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For one embodiment a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from the central server or cloud computing system device service to devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

According to embodiments the smart devices combine to create a mesh network of spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the central server or cloud computing system device service . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and can only communicate using wireless protocols that require very little power such as Zigbee 6LoWPAN etc. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or the central server or cloud computing system device service . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system device service . According to embodiments the mesh network enables the central server or cloud computing system device service to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives described herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening . Accordingly users other devices and the central server or cloud computing system device service can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system device service which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the central server or cloud computing system device service .

An example of a low power node is a smart night light . In addition to housing a light source the smart night light houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart night light is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart night light is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to embodiments the smart night light includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system device service .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the smart hazard detectors . These smart hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore smart hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and the central server or cloud computing system device service such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart thermostats smart doorbells smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments these low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and can function as tripwires for an alarm system in the smart home environment. For example in the event a perpetrator circumvents detection by alarm sensors located at windows doors and other entry points of the smart home environment the alarm could be triggered upon receiving an occupancy motion heat sound etc. message from one or more of the low powered and spokesman nodes in the mesh network. For example upon receiving a message from a smart night light indicating the presence of a person the central server or cloud computing system device service or some other device could trigger an alarm provided the alarm is armed at the time of detection. Thus the alarm system could be enhanced by various low powered and spokesman nodes located throughout the smart home environment . In this example a user could enhance the security of the smart home environment by buying and installing extra smart nightlights . However in a scenario where the perpetrator uses a radio transceiver to jam the wireless network the smart home devices may be incapable of communicating with each other. Therefore as discussed in detail below the present techniques provide network communication jamming attack detection and notification solutions to such a problem.

In some embodiments the mesh network can be used to automatically turn on and off lights as a person transitions from room to room. For example the low powered and spokesman nodes detect the person s movement through the smart home environment and communicate corresponding messages through the mesh network. Using the messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system device service or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall switches to automatically provide light as the person moves from room to room in the smart home environment . Further users may provide pre configuration information that indicates which smart wall plugs provide power to lamps and other light sources such as the smart night light . Alternatively this mapping of light sources to wall plugs can be done automatically e.g. the smart wall plugs detect when a light source is plugged into it and it sends a corresponding message to the central server or cloud computing system device service . Using this mapping information in combination with messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system device service or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall plugs that provide power to lamps and other light sources so as to track the person s movement and provide light as the person moves from room to room.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user provides a map of the best exit route. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information the central server or cloud computing system device service or some other device could automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the smart hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm the central server or cloud computing system device service or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. nightlights wall switches wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Further included and illustrated in the smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the ROOMBA and SCOOBA products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant a particular one of the service robots can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal comfort area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the occupant s immediate space at a comfortable temperature wherever that occupant may be located in the home. This can be contrasted with conventional wall mounted room thermostats which have the more attenuated objective of keeping a statically defined structural space at a comfortable temperature. According to one embodiment the localized thermostat service robot is configured to move itself into the immediate presence e.g. within five feet of a particular occupant who has settled into a particular location in the home e.g. in the dining room to eat their breakfast and read the news . The localized thermostat service robot includes a temperature sensor a processor and wireless communication components configured such that control communications with the HVAC system either directly or through a wall mounted wirelessly communicating thermostat coupled to the HVAC system are maintained and such that the temperature in the immediate vicinity of the occupant is maintained at their desired level. If the occupant then moves and settles into another location e.g. to the living room couch to watch television the localized thermostat service robot proceeds to move and park itself next to the couch and keep that particular immediate space at a comfortable temperature.

Technologies by which the localized thermostat service robot and or the larger smart home system of can identify and locate the occupant whose personal area space is to be kept at a comfortable temperature can include but are not limited to RFID sensing e.g. person having an RFID bracelet RFID necklace or RFID key fob synthetic vision techniques e.g. video cameras and face recognition processors audio techniques e.g. voice sound pattern vibration pattern recognition ultrasound sensing imaging techniques and infrared or near field communication NFC techniques e.g. person wearing an infrared or NFC capable smartphone along with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence techniques that draw useful conclusions from the sensed information e.g. if there is only a single occupant present in the home then that is the person whose immediate space should be kept at a comfortable temperature and the selection of the desired comfortable temperature should correspond to that occupant s particular stored profile .

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby to the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

The above described human facing and away functionalities can be provided without limitation by multiple distinct service robots having respective dedicated ones of such functionalities by a single service robot having an integration of two or more different ones of such functionalities and or any combinations thereof including the ability for a single service robot to have both away and human facing functionalities without departing from the scope of the present teachings. Electrical power can be provided by virtue of rechargeable batteries or other rechargeable methods such as an out of the way docking station to which the service robots will automatically dock and recharge its batteries if needed during periods of inactivity. Preferably each service robot includes wireless communication components that facilitate data communications with one or more of the other wirelessly communicating smart home sensors of and or with one or more other service robots e.g. using Wi Fi Zigbee Z Wave 6LoWPAN etc. and one or more of the smart home devices can be in communication with a remote server over the Internet. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith each service robot can be configured to communicate directly with a remote server by virtue of cellular telephone communications satellite communications 3G 4G network data communications or other direct communication method.

Provided according to some embodiments are systems and methods relating to the integration of the service robot s with home security sensors and related functionalities of the smart home system. The embodiments are particularly applicable and advantageous when applied for those service robots that perform away functionalities or that otherwise are desirable to be active when the home is unoccupied hereinafter away service robots . Included in the embodiments are methods and systems for ensuring that home security systems intrusion detection systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental control systems for example occupancy sensitive automated setback thermostats that enter into a lower energy using condition when the home is unoccupied are not erroneously triggered by the away service robots.

Provided according to one embodiment is a home automation and security system e.g. as shown in that is remotely monitored by a monitoring service by virtue of automated systems e.g. cloud based servers or other central servers hereinafter central server that are in data communications with one or more network connected elements of the home automation and security system. The away service robots are configured to be in operative data communication with the central server and are configured such that they remain in a non away service state e.g. a dormant state at their docking station unless permission is granted from the central server e.g. by virtue of an away service OK message from the central server to commence their away service activities. An away state determination made by the system which can be arrived at i exclusively by local on premises smart device s based on occupancy sensor data ii exclusively by the central server based on received occupancy sensor data and or based on received proximity related information such as GPS coordinates from user smartphones or automobiles or iii any combination of i and ii can then trigger the granting of away service permission to the away service robots by the central server. During the course of the away service robot activity during which the away service robots may continuously detect and send their in home location coordinates to the central server the central server can readily filter signals from the occupancy sensing devices to distinguish between the away service robot activity versus any unexpected intrusion activity thereby avoiding a false intrusion alarm condition while also ensuring that the home is secure. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith the central server may provide filtering data such as an expected occupancy sensing profile triggered by the away service robots to the occupancy sensing nodes or associated processing nodes of the smart home such that the filtering is performed at the local level. Although somewhat less secure it would also be within the scope of the present teachings for the central server to temporarily disable the occupancy sensing equipment for the duration of the away service robot activity.

According to another embodiment functionality similar to that of the central server in the above example can be performed by an on site computing device such as a dedicated server computer a master home automation console or panel or as an adjunct function of one or more of the smart home devices of . In such an embodiment there would be no dependency on a remote service provider to provide the away service OK permission to the away service robots and the false alarm avoidance filtering service or filter information for the sensed intrusion detection signals.

According to other embodiments there are provided methods and systems for implementing away service robot functionality while avoiding false home security alarms and false occupancy sensitive environmental controls without the requirement of a single overall event orchestrator. For purposes of the simplicity in the present disclosure the home security systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental controls that would be triggered by the motion noise vibrations or other disturbances of the away service robot activity are referenced simply as activity sensing systems and when so triggered will yield a disturbance detected outcome representative of the false trigger for example an alarm message to a security service or an arrival determination for an automated setback thermostat that causes the home to be heated or cooled to a more comfortable occupied setpoint temperature . According to one embodiment the away service robots are configured to emit a standard ultrasonic sound throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard ultrasonic sound and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard ultrasonic sound is detected. For other embodiments the away service robots are configured to emit a standard notification signal throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard notification signal and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard notification signal is detected wherein the standard notification signal comprises one or more of an optical notifying signal an audible notifying signal an infrared notifying signal an infrasonic notifying signal a wirelessly transmitted data notification signal e.g. an IP broadcast multicast or unicast notification signal or a notification message sent in an TCP IP two way communication session .

According to some embodiments the notification signals sent by the away service robots to the activity sensing systems are authenticated and encrypted such that the notifications cannot be learned and replicated by a potential burglar. Any of a variety of known encryption authentication schemes can be used to ensure such data security including but not limited to methods involving third party data security services or certificate authorities. For some embodiments a permission request response model can be used wherein any particular away service robot requests permission from each activity sensing system in the home when it is ready to perform its away service tasks and does not initiate such activity until receiving a yes or permission granted message from each activity sensing system or from a single activity sensing system serving as a spokesman for all of the activity sensing systems . One advantage of the described embodiments that do not require a central event orchestrator is that there can optionally be more of an arms length relationship between the supplier s of the home security environmental control equipment on the one hand and the supplier s of the away service robot s on the other hand as it is only required that there is the described standard one way notification protocol or the described standard two way request permission protocol to be agreed upon by the respective suppliers.

According to still other embodiments the activity sensing systems are configured to detect sounds vibrations RF emissions or other detectable environmental signals or signatures that are intrinsically associated with the away service activity of each away service robot and are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that particular detectable signal or environmental signature is detected. By way of example a particular kind of vacuum cleaning away service robot may emit a specific sound or RF signature. For one embodiment the away service environmental signatures for each of a number of known away service robots are stored in the memory of the activity sensing systems based on empirically collected data the environmental signatures being supplied with the activity sensing systems and periodically updated by a remote update server. For another embodiment the activity sensing systems can be placed into a training mode for the particular home in which they are installed wherein they listen and learn the particular environmental signatures of the away service robots for that home during that training session and thereafter will suppress disturbance detected outcomes for intervals in which those environmental signatures are heard.

For still another embodiment which is particularly useful when the activity sensing system is associated with occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment rather than a home security system the activity sensing system is configured to automatically learn the environmental signatures for the away service robots by virtue of automatically performing correlations over time between detected environmental signatures and detected occupancy activity. By way of example for one embodiment an intelligent automated nonoccupancy triggered setback thermostat such as the Nest Learning Thermostat can be configured to constantly monitor for audible and RF activity as well as to perform infrared based occupancy detection. In particular view of the fact that the environmental signature of the away service robot will remain relatively constant from event to event and in view of the fact that the away service events will likely either a themselves be triggered by some sort of nonoccupancy condition as measured by the away service robots themselves or b occur at regular times of day there will be patterns in the collected data by which the events themselves will become apparent and for which the environmental signatures can be readily learned. Generally speaking for this automatic learning embodiment in which the environmental signatures of the away service robots are automatically learned without requiring user interaction it is more preferable that a certain number of false triggers be tolerable over the course of the learning process. Accordingly this automatic learning embodiment is more preferable for application in occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment such as an automated setback thermostat rather than home security systems for the reason that a few false occupancy determinations may cause a few instances of unnecessary heating or cooling but will not otherwise have any serious consequences whereas false home security alarms may have more serious consequences.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located in the mesh network of the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system device service are used to provide a personal smart alarm clock for individual occupants of the home. For example user occupants can communicate with the central server or cloud computing system device service via their mobile devices to access an interface for the smart alarm clock. There occupants can turn on their smart alarm clock and input a wake time for the next day and or for additional days. In some embodiments the occupant may have the option of setting a specific wake time for each day of the week as well as the option of setting some or all of the inputted wake times to repeat . Artificial intelligence will be used to consider the occupant s response to these alarms when they go off and make inferences about the user s preferred sleep patterns over time.

According to embodiments the smart device in the smart home environment that happens to be closest to the occupant when the occupant falls asleep will be the device that transmits messages regarding when the occupant stopped moving from which the central server or cloud computing system device service will make inferences about where and when the occupant prefers to sleep. This closest smart device will as be the device that sounds the alarm to wake the occupant. In this manner the smart alarm clock will follow the occupant throughout the house by tracking the individual occupants based on their unique signature which is determined based on data obtained from sensors located in the smart devices. For example the sensors include ultrasonic sensors passive IR sensors and the like. The unique signature is based on a combination of walking gate patterns of movement voice height size etc. It should be appreciated that facial recognition may also be used.

According to an embodiment the wake times associated with the smart alarm clock are used by the smart thermostat to control the HVAC in an efficient manner so as to pre heat or cool the house to the occupant s desired sleeping and awake temperature settings. The preferred settings can be learned over time such as by observing which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to before going to sleep and which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to upon waking up.

According to an embodiment a device is positioned proximate to the occupant s bed such as on an adjacent nightstand and collects data as the occupant sleeps using noise sensors motion sensors e.g. ultrasonic IR and optical etc. Data may be obtained by the other smart devices in the room as well. Such data may include the occupant s breathing patterns heart rate movement etc. Inferences are made based on this data in combination with data that indicates when the occupant actually wakes up. For example if on a regular basis the occupant s heart rate breathing and moving all increase by 5 to 10 twenty to thirty minutes before the occupant wakes up each morning then predictions can be made regarding when the occupant is going to wake. Other devices in the home can use these predictions to provide other smart home objectives such as adjusting the smart thermostat so as to pre heat or cool the home to the occupant s desired setting before the occupant wakes up. Further these predictions can be used to set the smart alarm clock for the occupant to turn on lights etc.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located throughout the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system device service are used to detect or monitor the progress of Alzheimer s Disease. For example the unique signatures of the occupants are used to track the individual occupants movement throughout the smart home environment . This data can be aggregated and analyzed to identify patterns indicative of Alzheimer s. Oftentimes individuals with Alzheimer s have distinctive patterns of migration in their homes. For example a person will walk to the kitchen and stand there for a while then to the living room and stand there for a while and then back to the kitchen. This pattern will take about thirty minutes and then the person will repeat the pattern. According to embodiments the remote servers or cloud computing architectures analyze the person s migration data collected by the mesh network of the smart home environment to identify such patterns.

In addition illustrates an embodiment of an extensible devices and services platform that can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation with respect to the smart home environment . The extensible devices and services platform may include a processing engine which may include engines that receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a web page to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

The derived data can be highly beneficial at a variety of different granularities for a variety of useful purposes ranging from explicit programmed control of the devices on a per home per neighborhood or per region basis for example demand response programs for electrical utilities to the generation of inferential abstractions that can assist on a per home basis for example an inference can be drawn that the homeowner has left for vacation and so security detection equipment can be put on heightened sensitivity to the generation of statistics and associated inferential abstractions that can be used for government or charitable purposes. For example processing engine can generate statistics about device usage across a population of devices and send the statistics to device users service providers or other entities e.g. that have requested or may have provided monetary compensation for the statistics .

According to some embodiments the home data the derived home data and or another data can be used to create automated neighborhood safety networks. For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture receives data indicating that a particular home has been broken into is experiencing a fire or some other type of emergency event an alarm is sent to other smart homes in the neighborhood. In some instances the central server or cloud computing architecture automatically identifies smart homes within a radius of the home experiencing the emergency and sends an alarm to the identified homes. In such instances the other homes in the neighborhood do not have to sign up for or register to be a part of a safety network but instead are notified of an emergency based on their proximity to the location of the emergency. This creates robust and evolving neighborhood security watch networks such that if one person s home is getting broken into an alarm can be sent to nearby homes such as by audio announcements via the smart devices located in those homes. It should be appreciated that this can be an opt in service and that in addition to or instead of the central server or cloud computing architecture selecting which homes to send alerts to individuals can subscribe to participate in such networks and individuals can specify which homes they want to receive alerts from. This can include for example the homes of family members who live in different cities such that individuals can receive alerts when their loved ones in other locations are experiencing an emergency.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by running water. Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about water usage in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what water sounds like and when it is running in the home. According to one embodiment to map the various water sources of the home upon detecting running water the central server or cloud computing architecture sends a message an occupant s mobile device asking if water is currently running or if water has been recently run in the home and if so which room and which water consumption appliance e.g. sink shower toilet etc. was the source of the water. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to determine the signature or fingerprint of each water source in the home. This is sometimes referred to herein as audio fingerprinting water usage. 

In one illustrative example the central server or cloud computing architecture creates a signature for the toilet in the master bathroom and whenever that toilet is flushed the central server or cloud computing architecture will know that the water usage at that time is associated with that toilet. Thus the central server or cloud computing architecture can track the water usage of that toilet as well as each water consumption application in the home. This information can be correlated to water bills or smart water meters so as to provide users with a breakdown of their water usage.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by mice and other rodents as well as by termites cockroaches and other insects collectively referred to as pests . Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about pest detection in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what certain pests sound like how they move and or the vibration they create individually and or collectively. According to one embodiment the central server or cloud computing architecture can determine the signatures of particular types of pests.

For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture detects sounds that may be associated with pests it notifies the occupants of such sounds and suggests hiring a pest control company. If it is confirmed that pests are indeed present the occupants input to the central server or cloud computing architecture confirms that its detection was correct along with details regarding the identified pests such as name type description location quantity etc. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to tune itself for better detection and create signatures or fingerprints for specific types of pests. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can use the tuning as well as the signatures and fingerprints to detect pests in other homes such as nearby homes that may be experiencing problems with the same pests. Further for example in the event that two or more homes in a neighborhood are experiencing problems with the same or similar types of pests the central server or cloud computing architecture can make inferences that nearby homes may also have such problems or may be susceptible to having such problems and it can send warning messages to those homes to help facilitate early detection and prevention.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform expose a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs are coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with the central server or the cloud computing system device service including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example the APIs allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by the central server or the cloud computing system device service as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

For example third parties can develop programs and or applications such as web or mobile apps that integrate with the central server or the cloud computing system device service to provide services and information to users. Such programs and application may be for example designed to help users reduce energy consumption to preemptively service faulty equipment to prepare for high service demands to track past service performance etc. or to perform any of a variety of beneficial functions or tasks now known or hereinafter developed. To ensure the continued proper functioning of the smart home devices that these programs and or applications interact with device state based message limiting may be employed based on various operation status parameters e.g. a current battery level charging rate device age planned device lifespan recent wireless usage internal temperature and or the operation status parameters of other connected devices that are being used to access the target smart home device .

According to some embodiments third party applications make inferences from the home data and the derived home data such inferences may include when occupants are home when they are sleeping when they are cooking when they are in the den watching television and when they are showering. The answers to these questions may help third parties benefit consumers by providing them with interesting information products and services as well as with providing them with targeted advertisements.

In one example a shipping company creates an application that makes inferences regarding when people are at home. The application uses the inferences to schedule deliveries for times when people will most likely be at home. The application can also build delivery routes around these scheduled times. This reduces the number of instances where the shipping company has to make multiple attempts to deliver packages and it reduces the number of times consumers have to pick up their packages from the shipping company.

In another example a car company may develop a car navigation application that can determine an estimated time of arrival ETA to a home. The application may continually update a device service through the APIs associated with the

To further illustrate describes an abstracted functional view of the extensible devices and services platform of with particular reference to the processing engine as well as devices such as those of the smart home environment of . Even though devices situated in smart home environments will have an endless variety of different individual capabilities and limitations they can all be thought of as sharing common characteristics in that each of them is a data consumer DC a data source DS a services consumer SC and a services source SS . Advantageously in addition to providing the essential control information needed for the devices to achieve their local and immediate objectives the extensible devices and services platform can also be configured to harness the large amount of data that is flowing out of these devices. In addition to enhancing or optimizing the actual operation of the devices themselves with respect to their immediate functions the extensible devices and services platform can be directed to repurposing that data in a variety of automated extensible flexible and or scalable ways to achieve a variety of useful objectives. These objectives may be predefined or adaptively identified based on e.g. usage patterns device efficiency and or user input e.g. requesting specific functionality .

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an instance in which an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to their trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when they are home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. In yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a serious fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available properly anonymized for processing in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

Although third party programs applications and or application services may be used to communicate requests or commands to the smart home devices in some embodiments these may not be sent directly to the smart home devices . Indeed doing so in an unrestricted fashion could reduce the desired functionally of the smart home devices in some circumstances. For example the battery may drain too quickly and or the internal temperature of the electronic device may become so high that certain functionalities of the smart home device may become inhibited e.g. if a thermostat has too high an internal temperature it may have difficulties determining the temperature of its environment . As such as shown by a message limiting system of the smart home devices may be accessed via a cloud service in a rule based rate limited and or device state based manner to preserve their proper functionality. Moreover although the smart home devices have been used by way of example any other suitable type of electronic devices may be communicated with and or controlled in the manner of this disclosure.

As illustrated in a person may desire to access a number of smart home devices such as a first smart home device A and second smart home devices B. In the example of the first smart home device A is an example of a smart thermostat such as the Nest Learning Thermostat by Nest Labs Inc. a company of Google Inc. and the second smart home devices B are examples of smart hazard detectors such as the Nest Protect by Nest Labs Inc. Two application programs are shown accessing the smart home devices A and or B through the device service . Although illustrates accessing the smart home devices A and or B using two separate application programs it should be appreciated that any suitable number of application programs may be used to access the smart home devices A and or B. Moreover it should be appreciated that the example of is not intended to list every component that may be present in such a system to provide third party access to target electronic devices such as the smart home devices .

In the example of a first application sends a first device request message targeted to a smart home device e.g. the smart home device A into cloud service s and more specifically to a first application service . A second application may be used to issue a second device request message targeted to a smart home device e.g. the smart home device A to a second application service also among the cloud service s . In the example shown the first application is a navigation application that sends estimated time of arrival ETA information in the device request messages . By sending a number of ETA messages as the device request messages the first application may be used to cause the smart home devices A and or B to be prepared when a person arrives home. Thus as an example the first application may send occasional device request messages indicating the ETA to the first application service which may forward this information to the device service e.g. via an API as discussed above . The device service may hold the device request messages from the first application until an appropriate time. In the illustrated example the second application may be a third party home automation application that may be running on a portable electronic device such as a personal mobile device. The second application may generate device request messages such as commands to control or request information from the smart home devices A and or B. The second application service may interface with the device service by way of an API as mentioned above.

Although the first application service the second application service and the device service are illustrated in as cloud service s it may appreciated that some or all of these services may run on electronic devices that are not remote cloud computer systems accessible by way of the Internet. Indeed in some examples the device service may not be on a network that is remote from the smart home devices A and or B but rather may be running on an electronic device in the same local area network as the smart home devices A and or B. For example the device service may additionally or alternatively run on a local server computer and or a local wireless router on the same local area network as the smart home devices A and or B. Moreover some applications may communicate directly with the device service e.g. via the API rather than communicating through an application service such as the first application service or the second application service .

Regardless of the number of applications that may issue device request messages e.g. or to the device service the device service may not merely forward these messages to the smart home devices A and or B that the device request messages are targeted too. Rather the device service may serve as the point of contact that third party application programs may use to access the smart home devices A and or B. The device service then may communicate information and or commands provided by the applications to the smart home devices A and or B in a limited manner. This may reduce the risk that operation of the devices A and or B is negatively impacted as a result of access to those devices being provided to third party applications devices. Moreover as will be discussed further below the device service may include a rule based rate limiting component to prevent messages having certain parameters e.g. deriving from a particular instance of an application and or from a particular user from overwhelming the device service and or the smart home electronic devices . The device service may also include a device state based message limiting component which may cause request messages to be provided to target electronic devices in a way that does not substantially negatively impact the operation of the target electronic devices .

In some embodiments to assist the device service in making message limiting decisions the smart home devices A and or B may occasionally transmit device operation status parameters to the device service . The device service may use the device operation status parameters to determine when a message may be acceptably provided to a target electronic device that would reduce the risk of the operation of the smart home devices A and or B being negatively impacted as a result of the first and second applications accessing those devices. In one example to be discussed further below the device service may determine whether or not to provide a device update signal based at least partly on the device operation status parameters . For example the device service may limit communication sessions with the smart home devices A and or B to prevent a battery level of the smart home devices A and or B from dropping so low that the smart home device A and or B is more likely to malfunction. It should be appreciated that while the device update signal may be a communication in which the first and or second application request updates to a status or operation of the smart home devices A and or B embodiments are not so limited. That is message limiting may be applied to all communications desired to be sent to the smart home devices by the cloud services on behalf of the first and or second application services and may include requests for information e.g. requests for a status of the smart home devices or other types of communication.

The device operation status parameters may correspond only to a target smart home device e.g. the smart home device A or may correspond to other smart home devices that are in the vicinity of the target smart home device e.g. the smart home device A and the smart home devices B . In one example when the target smart home device for the device request messages and or are the smart home device A the device operation status parameters may correspond substantially only to the smart home device A. In another example when the target smart home device is one of the smart home devices B which is accessible by way of the smart home device A the device operation status parameters may contain operational parameter information about both the smart home device A and the smart home device B.

Before continuing an alternative embodiment will be briefly discussed. Specifically the smart home devices A and or B may not provide the device operation status parameters to the device service for the purposes of assisting the device service in performing the message limiting logic discussed herein. Instead the smart home devices A and or B may themselves determine and use an appropriate amount of message limiting using the device operation status parameters . Doing so may not necessarily reduce the amount of communication that takes place between the smart home devices A and or B and the device service but may still achieve reductions in processing by and thus power consumption by the smart home devices A and or B. Such self management of incoming communications from third party applications devices may be implemented in one or more of a number of fashions. For example in one embodiment the smart home device A may include both high and lower power wireless transceivers as well as one or more processors. The device may typically operate in a low power mode where e.g. the processor s are effectively inoperative the high power transceiver is inoperative and the low power transceiver is in a listening mode. The message limiting logic may be incorporated into the low power transceiver and or a low power processor associated with the low power transceiver. When a communication from a third party application device is received the low power transceiver and or low power processor may apply the message limiting logic to those incoming communications and decide whether to consume those communications e.g. wake up a high power processor to process and or respond to those communications based on that message limiting logic. It should be appreciated that although the smart home devices A and or B may determine how to control consumption of communications in some embodiments the smart home devices A and or B may determine when to limit communication and provide an indication of such to the device service with or without the device operation status parameters to allow the device service to manage when to provide update signals to the devices .

In any case the device operation status parameters may represent any suitable characteristics of the operation status of the smart home devices A and or B that may affect the proper functioning of the smart home devices A and or B. Thus the device operation status parameters may include for example a battery level indicative of an amount of charge remaining in a battery of the smart home device a charging rate indicative of a current rate that the battery of the smart home device is charging a current device age indicative of a period of use since initial install a period of use since manufacture a period of use since original sale etc. a planned lifespan indicative of an expected useful operational duration of the smart home device an amount of recent wireless use 163 selected within a timespan recent enough to substantially affect an internal temperature of the smart home device a direct measurement of an internal device temperature and or device operation status parameters for connected devices . The operational status parameters for connected devices may represent any suitable operational parameters that may describe the smart home devices e.g. smart home device A through which the device service may use to connect to a target smart home device e.g. one of the smart home devices B . For example regarding the operational status parameters for connected devices if the target smart home device is the last smart home device B through three smart home devices in three communication hops the device operation status parameters associated with these three intervening smart home devices may be included. This may allow the device service to limit communication to the final node in a mesh network of smart home devices to preserve the desired operation of all of the intervening smart home devices .

Each of the device operation status parameters discussed above will be discussed further below. Moreover it should be appreciated that the various specific device operation status parameters shown in are provided by way of example. As such the device operation status parameters shown in should not be understood to be exhaustive but merely representative of possible operational parameters that may be considered for effective message limiting. For example additional device operation status parameters may include a current operation of the device e.g. sleeping awake Wifi active inactive executing a demand response algorithm executing a time to temperature algorithm etc. .

The device service may perform device state based message limiting using the device operation status parameters in any suitable manner. In one example shown by a flowchart of the device service may receive one or more of the device operation status parameters from a target smart home device e.g. the smart home device A block . The device service may receive the device operation status parameters occasionally from the target smart home device e.g. periodically or at a different time when the smart home device A is an awake state . Additionally or alternatively the device service may occasionally poll the smart home device s to request device operation status parameters on occasion e.g. periodically or in response to receiving a device request message e.g. or .

The device service may receive a device request message e.g. the or block and may determine whether to communicate an update signal from the device service to the target smart device A block on behalf of a third party application device. Because in some embodiments the device service determines whether to provide the update signal not merely based on the particular type of smart home device but rather on the specific device operation status parameters associated with the smart home device different installations of the same type of smart home devices may receive update signals from the device service at different times. In this way a relatively higher number of update signals may be provided for devices with certain device operation status parameters e.g. a relatively high battery level and or a relatively high charging rate while a relatively lower number of update signals may be provided for devices with other device operation status parameters e.g. a relatively low battery level and or a relatively low charging rate . Thus the device service may provide or not provide a corresponding device update signal that includes or incorporates the information of the device request message e.g. or .

Indeed the device operation status parameters may indicate whether a providing an update signal could cause the target smart home device e.g. the smart home device A to behave in a manner unsatisfactory for its desired user experience. As seen in a plot shows a sensed temperature of the device plot sensed relative humidity plot and device battery level plot over time. In the plot data communication is plotted as a curve . In particular the curve represents temperature setpoints programmed to the smart home device A. Thus the rate of update signals sent to the smart home device may be evident by seeing how the temperature setpoints of the curve are changing. From a time t to t communication is provided to the target smart home device at a rate of 1 bucket i.e. fixed amount of data per 5 minutes indicated in the curve as a different temperature setpoint approximately every 5 minutes . During this time the temperature of a test chamber where the device is being tested remains the same and the sensed temperature illustrated by the temperature curve and a sensed relative humidity curve remain stable. Also during this time a battery curve shows that the battery level of the target smart home device may become immediately but temporarily lower as the low frequency of informational messages being communicated to the device is low enough to allow the battery to recharge between communications.

Between times t and t no communication takes place the battery level is maintained to be approximately constant and humidity and temperature are also approximately constant until the point in time nearing t. Here the sensed temperature of the curve increases because the temperature of the test chamber has been increased. Under a higher temperature the device may be more likely to incorrectly sense temperature. Between t and t the rate of communication is increased to 1 bucket per minute. This causes the device to less accurately sense the temperature curve or relative humidity curve . Both curves and vary even though the actual temperature and humidity of the test chamber remained constant. This may imply that the internal temperature of the smart home device varying due to increased levels of communication. The increased rate of communication then is believed to change the ability of certain sensors in the target smart home device to behave as desired. Moreover the battery level is shown to decrease precipitously between times t and t when the rate of communication is increased to 1 bucket per minute. Indeed increasing the communication to 1 bucket per 30 seconds between times t and t may cause the target smart home device to behave even more unsatisfactorily. Specifically between times t and t the battery level is shown to drop so low that the target smart home device becomes substantially unusable e.g. Wifi communication may become inoperable a high powered processor may become inoperable etc. until the battery level is recharged.

Another group of plots of compare sensed temperature plot and battery level plot for a lower power smart home device that includes a slower recharging rate than that described in . As seen in from times t to t a communication rate shown by a curve is limited to 30 buckets per hour. During this time period a sensed temperature shown by a curve varies and a battery level shown by a curve also drops but relatively slowly. Moreover after a period of no communication between times t and t the battery level rises sufficiently. Indeed the battery level remains relatively steady from times t to times t as the rate of communication is decreased. Specifically as shown in the communication rate is 24 buckets sessions per hour from times t to t 18 buckets sessions per hour from times t to t and 12 buckets sessions per hour from times t to t. All of these relatively lower communication rates allow the smart home device enough time to recover after changes in temperature and or battery level. In other words these communication rates for the particular smart home device modeled by the group of plots are sustainably low enough to maintain the proper functioning of the smart home device .

From the plots shown in it may be appreciated that among the various device operation status parameters the battery level may be one of those substantially affected by the communication rate with the target smart home device . As such as shown by a flowchart of the battery level and or charging rate device age and or planned lifespan as well as whether the battery of the smart home device is or is not rechargeable may be used to determine whether or not to provide a communication signal to an electronic device on behalf of a third party application device. In the example of the device service may receive a device request message e.g. or block . The device service may consider at least a battery level of the smart home device block . The device service may or may not consider the charging rate the device age and or the device planned lifespan as well. Indeed the charging rate the device age and or the device planned lifespan may be used to determine what threshold s the battery level should be compared to determine whether or not to provide an update signal . That is the device service may determine whether to send an update signal depending on how quickly the battery level is likely to charge or discharge over its lifespan.

Briefly considering before continuing the battery level may be compared to a static threshold that is the same for all smart home devices or may be compared to one or more battery level thresholds that may vary depending on other characteristics of the smart home device A such as the charging rate device age and or the planned lifespan of the smart home device . For example illustrates battery level thresholds for a smart home device with a rechargeable battery that charges at a relatively fast rate while illustrates battery level thresholds for a smart home device with a rechargeable battery that charges at a relatively slower rate. illustrates battery level thresholds that may vary depending on the age of the smart home device and its planned lifespan.

In a battery level plot of a battery level from 0 to 100 is shown next to a measured battery level of the smart home device . In the example of the battery is a rechargeable battery and the charging rate is relatively fast. A first threshold may represent a minimum battery level to allow device update signals . A second battery level threshold may represent a minimum battery level to allow for device update signals without providing a warning message to third party applications that future message may not go through because they may be limited due to a low battery level.

Likewise in a battery level plot of a battery level from 0 to 100 is shown next to a measured battery level . In the thresholds and are shown to have been selected to be higher than those in . This is to account for the relatively slower charging rate of the battery of the associated target smart home device . Namely to ensure that the operation of the smart home device remains satisfactory higher charging rates may correspond with higher thresholds and or and vice versa.

The battery level thresholds may be even higher for non rechargeable batteries. illustrates a plot associated with a smart home device with a non rechargeable battery. The plot compares a total lifespan in years to a remaining battery life in years and a remaining lifespan of the target smart home device . The remaining lifespan of the target smart home device may be determined for example by comparing the device age with the planned device lifespan . Regardless of how the remaining lifespan is calculated the remaining lifespan may be used to determine the first threshold and or second threshold to permit communication with the smart home device. That is the thresholds and or may be relatively higher when the smart home device is younger than when it is older to ensure that the smart home device continues to operate as desired for its planned lifespan.

Returning to the flowchart of when the battery level of the target smart home device is not above the first threshold decision block the device service may return an error to the application service and or application that submitted the device request block . This is indicated in block as an error for an immediate device request message because longer termed requests that are not time sensitive may be held until the device service determines that communication messages can be sent without reducing the satisfactory performance of the target smart home device .

If the battery level is above the first threshold decision block but is not above the second threshold block the device service may issue the device update signal but may provide a warning message to the application and or application service that sent the device request message block . When the battery level is above both the first threshold decision block and the second threshold decision block the device service may issue the device update signal without providing a warning block . It should be appreciated that more or fewer thresholds may be employed with varying levels of warnings. Moreover the same decisions of the flowchart of may be used to set a particular rate limit rather than deciding whether to send a particular message. For example when the battery level is below the first threshold the rate limit may be set to be relatively low e.g. 0 buckets sessions per minute increasing as the battery level crosses the first threshold e.g. 12 buckets sessions per hour and or second threshold e.g. 1 bucket session per minute . Moreover it should be appreciated that the flowchart is provided by way of example and that the blocks shown may be performed in other orders. For instance the thresholds may be compared in different orders to determine whether or not to send a device update signal .

Because the wireless usage and or the internal temperature could cause the target smart home device e.g. the target smart home device A of to improperly sense properties of its surroundings thereby inhibiting the user experience of the smart home device a flowchart of describes a manner of message limiting to the target smart home device when these characteristics are too high. In the example of the device service may receive a device request message e.g. or block . The device service may consider the recent wireless usage and or the internal temperature of the target smart home device . The device service may compare these characteristics to one or more threshold values in a similar manner to the comparison of battery level thresholds described in .

For example if the amount of recent wireless usage and or the internal temperature is above a first threshold decision block the device service may return an error message block and may not provide a device update signal . If the recent wireless usage and or the internal temperature are above the first threshold decision block but below a second threshold decision block the device service may issue the device update signal but reply to the application or application service that sent the device request message with a warning that the temperature of the device is getting too high or is approaching an unsatisfactory limit block . If the recent wireless usage and or the internal temperature is above the first threshold decision block and the second threshold decision block the device service may provide the device update signal without issuing an warnings decision block . Moreover the same decisions of the flowchart of may be used to set a particular rate limit rather than deciding whether to send a particular message. For example when the recent wireless usage and or the internal temperature are below the first threshold the rate limit may be set to be relatively low e.g. 0 buckets sessions per minute increasing as the recent wireless usage and or the internal temperature cross the first threshold e.g. 12 buckets sessions per hour and or second threshold e.g. 1 bucket session per minute .

As mentioned above a target smart home device e.g. a target smart home device B may be accessible by the device service through another smart home device e.g. smart home device A . Since issuing messages to the target smart home device in such a situation could consume battery resources of intervening devices and or increase a wireless usage and or a temperature of such intervening devices e.g. the smart home device A the device service may consider device operation status parameters associated not only with the target smart home device but also in any intervening devices . In a flowchart of for example the device service may receive one or more request messages e.g. or for a target smart home device that is accessible by the device service through another smart home device e.g. the smart home device A block . The device service may determine a rate limit that may maintain satisfactory operation of all of these smart home devices block . Thus the device service may determine to provide or not to provide the device update signal according to the message limiting determination to maintain satisfactory operation of the target smart home device e.g. the smart home device B and any intervening smart home devices e.g. the smart home devices with the smart home device A block .

Additionally or alternatively to the device state based message limiting discussed above the device service and or one or more of the smart home devices may perform rule based rate limiting using the rule based rate limiting component . One example of a system of using the rule based rate limiting component appears in . As used in this disclosure the term rate limiting refers to the act of selectively permitting a message e.g. from the applications and or that is en route to a destination e.g. another component of the device service or to a target smart home device to pass depending on various parameters associated with the message . The rate limiting of this disclosure is referred to as rule based because messages may be restricted from passage based on rules relating to any suitable number of ascertainable parameters of the messages .

A few non limiting examples of these parameters include an identifier of an instance of an application that sent the message e.g. client id a user identifier associated with the message e.g. user id an identifier of an electronic device that sent the message an indication of a network location where the message was sent from e.g. an Internet Protocol IP address an indication of an organization associated with the application e.g. a developer of the application a company sharing a relationship such as a distribution agreement with the developer a technical cooperation or standards organization or an online application store where the application was sold to name a few examples a time when the message was sent or received content of the message e.g. whether the message is seeking to issue a command to change the operation of a smart home device or merely to request information regarding the smart home device a type of smart home device to which the message pertains a specific smart home device to which the message pertains and or any other suitable parameter relating to the message. Rules incorporating one or more of these parameters may be used to selectively rate limit messages according to the parameters of the messages.

The rule based rate limiting component may include any suitable number of rules based on any suitable parameters . In the example shown in the rule based rate limiting component includes a first rule A and a second rule B. It should be appreciated that the rules shown in are provided by way of example and are not intended to be exhaustive. Indeed the rule based rate limiting component may employ more or fewer rules and these rules may pertain to more or fewer parameters .

Continuing with the example of the first rule A limits the number of messages originating from a particular application instance user pair to no more than 20 messages per minute. The second rule B limits the number of messages originating from a particular application instance user pair to no more than 60 messages per hour. Respective tracking buckets A and B that may contain respective sliding window counters A and B may maintain respective sliding window counts corresponding to the rules A and B. When the sliding window counter A exceeds the prescribed limit of the rule A e.g. more than 20 messages within the last minute a restriction bucket A may be generated activated and or invoked to cause the rule based rate limiting component to take a specified restrictive action upon receipt of a message having a particular set of parameters e.g. originating from the application instance user pair though other parameters may be used in addition or alternatively to those of the rule A . Likewise when the sliding window counter B exceeds the prescribed limit of the rule B e.g. more than 60 messages within the last 2 hours a restriction bucket B may be generated activated and or invoked to cause the rule based rate limiting component to take a specified restrictive action upon receipt of a message having a particular set of parameters e.g. originating from the application instance user pair though other parameters may be used in addition or alternatively to those of the rule B . The restrictive action may involve blocking delaying and or redirecting the message and or replying with an error or warning message.

Each restriction bucket may be understood to operate as a restriction flag. As used herein the term restriction flag refers to a component that causes the rule based rate limiting component to catch messages having matching certain parameters and to take certain restrictive action in relation to those messages . The term restriction flag and restriction buckets will be used interchangeably in this disclosure. It should be noted that the restriction buckets A and B are shown in as separate from the tracking buckets A and B. As will be discussed further below this may allow the restriction of messages to take place synchronously to their receipt. By contrast the determination of whether to restrict the messages e.g. by tracking certain messages with a tracking bucket and generating or activating the restriction bucket when the number of messages exceeds a limit may take place asynchronously to the receipt of the messages . As a result the latency associated with tracking the messages may be at least partially dissociated from the latency associated with restricting the messages .

As noted above the sliding window counters e.g. A or B of the rule based rate limiting component may progressively track the total number of messages that match particular criteria e.g. have the same parameters as those listed in a rule . As such the counts stored in sliding window counters may change over time. One example of the manner in which sliding window counters may adjust their counts of messages having particular parameters is provided in and B.

In and B dots representing messages appear on a timeline representing time from 8 00 AM to midnight. In the time is currently 10 00 PM. The messages are understood all to have a particular set of parameters e.g. originating from the same particular application instance and associated user . Moreover in the example of and B the rule based rate limiting component is understood to be counting the messages based on the rules A and B shown in . To recall these rules limit messages from a single application instance user pair to 1 no more than 20 messages per minute rule A and 2 no more than 60 messages per hour rule B . As such and B show the first sliding window counter B which represents a count of all such messages that have been received within the last minute and the second sliding window counter B which represents a count of all such messages that have been received in the last hour.

In the example of the sliding window counter A contains a count of 5 within the allowable limit of 20 but the sliding window counter B contains a count of 66 above the allowable limit of 60 . Thus the rule based rate limiting component may take a restrictive action for additional messages that are received while the sliding window counter B remains above the limit of its corresponding rule B.

Over time however the counts of the sliding window counters A and B may change. Indeed the effect of aging out the counts of the messages is evident in which shows the counts of the sliding window counters A and B at 11 00 PM. Now the sliding window counter A contains a count of 6 within the allowable limit of 20 and the sliding window counter contains a count of 42 also within the allowable limit of 60 . Accordingly if there are not other rules pertaining to the messages the rule based rate limiting component may no longer be taking a restrictive action for additional messages .

Thus one example of the rule based rate limiting component may operate as described in a flowchart of . Namely the rule based rate limiting component may receive a request message block and determine parameters relating to the message block . The rule based rate limiting component may compare the parameters of the message to those of any currently active rules and maintain a sliding window count of those messages block . When the sliding window count exceeds a limit of a rule the rule based rate limiting component may take a restrictive action e.g. blocking delaying or redirecting a message or issuing a warning or error when another such message is received block .

Before continuing a brief example of rules and restrictions written in pseudocode are provided. An example of a rule may be as follows 

In the example pseudocode above any request for user and client will be rejected at any time between midnight and 4 00 AM. Both rules and restriction buckets may be loaded by a filter on start up but may also be updated dynamically at runtime. This may be relatively frequent in the case of the restriction buckets since they may be due to a sliding window counter exceeding some limit.

In some examples the rule based rate limiting component may have an organizational structure that reduces the latency incurred in filtering the messages . As seen in the rule based rate limiting component may receive the incoming request messages en route to a destination and provide outgoing responses e.g. a response from the destination or a warning or error message from the rule based rate limiting component . To reduce latency incurred in filtering the messages the example of the rule based rate limiting component of includes one or more synchronous message filtering components and one or more asynchronous rate limiting determination components . The synchronous message filtering component s may identify messages having parameters targeted for some restrictive action while the asynchronous rate limiting determination component s may control the synchronous message filtering component s . In this way latency incurred by tracking the messages may have less of an impact on the filtering of the messages .

In the example of the synchronous messages filtering component s include a pre authorization filter an authorization filter and a post authorization filter . The asynchronous rate limiting determination component s include a rate limiter service and or shared counters and and may update the pre authorization filter and post authorization filter . It should be appreciated however that this is intended to be merely one example of the rule based rate limiting component . Indeed more or fewer synchronous message component s may be used and the synchronous message component s may be called or removed as desired. It may be noted that the shared counters and may be used in a form of circuit breaker type of rate limiting to prevent a misbehaving client from putting through a large number of requests before they are blocked by an asynchronous restriction. That is in some embodiments the synchronous message filtering component may perform certain counts of large numbers of quickly received messages from a particular source using the shared counters and .

When the synchronous message filtering component includes the pre authorization filter and the post authorization filter the pre authorization filter may take restrictive action based on parameters that can be determined without first authorizing the messages . By contrast the post authorization filter may take restrictive action based on parameters that can be determined after authorizing the messages . For example a parameter such as the network location e.g. IP address that the message was sent from may be ascertainable without authorizing the message while parameters such as the application instance and or user may be ascertainable only after authorization.

The pre authorization filter and the post authorization filter may compare certain parameters of the messages according to one or more rule s and may have any suitable filter structure. For example in one example the structure may be that of a Finagle filter or Netty channel handler or both. The rule s of the pre authorization filter may be the same as or different from the rule s of the post authorization filter . For instance the rule s of the pre authorization filter may include for example taking restrictive action based on a number of messages received from a particular IP address within a specified amount of time. The rule s of the post authorization filter may include for example taking restrictive action based on a number of messages received from a particular instance of an application and or user within a specified amount of time.

The pre authorization filter and the post authorization filter may not actively track the number of messages having parameters that match the rules . Rather the pre authorization filter and the post authorization filter may compare the parameters of the messages to those of the rules and indicate that such messages have been received to the rate limiter service and or the shared counters and . The rate limiter service then may maintain tracking buckets and sliding window counters which may correspond to the shared counters or in some embodiments based on these indications. The rate limiter service may maintain the tracking buckets and sliding window counters according to one or more rules which may or may not correspond to the rule s of the pre authorization filter or post authorization filter .

When the sliding window counter of a tracking bucket exceeds a limit set by a corresponding rule in the rate limiter service the rate limiter service may generate or activate a corresponding restriction bucket in the pre authorization filter or post authorization filter . For example there may be a rule e.g. A not to exceed 20 messages per minute from a particular application instance user pair. When this happens the rate limiter service may generate or activate a corresponding restriction bucket in the post authorization filter thereby setting a restriction flag for the post authorization filter to take restrictive action when a corresponding message is next received. Since maintaining the sliding window count involves some processing by doing this asynchronously in the rate limiter service rather than synchronously in the post authorization filter the latency involved in filtering the messages may be reduced.

Thus the synchronous message filtering component s may operate at least in part according to a flowchart of . Upon receipt of an incoming request message block one or more of the synchronous message filtering component s such as the pre authorization filter or the post authorization filter may parse one or more parameters pertaining to the message block . The parameters of the message may be checked against parameters of a rule block . While the parameters do not match decision block and there are more rules decision block the synchronous message filtering component s may continue to check against rules block until a match is found decision block or until there are no more rules to compare decision block .

When the parameters of the message do match the parameters of a rule decision block the synchronous message filtering component s may check whether that implicated rule is associated with any active restriction buckets block . If so decision block the synchronous message filtering component s may take the action prescribed by the restriction bucket and or rule block . On the other hand if the implicated rule is not associated with any active restriction buckets decision block the synchronous message filtering component s may generate a counter event associated with the rule block .

After generating and or sending the counter event at block the synchronous message filtering component s may continue to check against rules and carry out blocks until there are no more rules decision block . At this point the synchronous message filtering component s may send indications of the counter events that have been generated to the asynchronous rate limiting determination component s block and allow the message to pass block . As noted above the asynchronous rate limiting determination component s such as the rate limiter service may use these counter events to maintain corresponding tracking buckets and determine whether to cause restriction buckets to be generated or activated in the synchronous message filtering component s . In this way message restriction may take place synchronously to the receipt of the messages while the determination of whether to restrict the messages may take place asynchronously.

One example of the overall operation of the rule based rate limiting component appears in a flowchart of . Upon receipt of a message block the rule based rate limiting component may perform synchronous filtering blocks and asynchronous rate limiting determination blocks . Namely as noted above the rule based rate limiting component may determine whether the parameters of the message match those of any restriction rules decision block and if so the rule based rate limiting component may determine whether there is a corresponding active restriction bucket decision block . If there is a corresponding active restriction bucket the rule based rate limiting component may take a restrictive action as prescribed by the restriction rule or the restriction bucket . If the restrictive action is a blocking action decision block the message may be blocked block . Otherwise the rule based rate limiting component may take a corresponding non blocking action such as delaying or redirecting the message or issuing a warning or error message in reply. Thereafter the rule based rate limiting component may pass the message and or track the message against tracking rules .

For example if there are no tracking rules decision block the flowchart may end block . Otherwise the rule based rate limiting component may create a tracking bucket if not yet generated and increment a corresponding sliding window counter block . If a limit has not been reached in the sliding window counter decision block the flowchart may end block . If a limit has been reached in the sliding window counter decision block the rule based rate limiting component may generate or activate a restriction bucket block and the flowchart may end block .

An object data model that may be used to carry out the rule based rate limiting component appears in . The object data model illustrates a variety of components e.g. objects that may be called in carrying out the rule based rate limiting component and their relationships. The object data model uses crow s foot notation. It should be understood that the object data model merely represents one particular manner of carrying out the rule based rate limiting component .

The various components of the object data model of includes a parameter type component which may include a parameter type identifier a name and a description. The parameter type component may be used by zero or more action parameter components and one or more parameter components . The action parameter components may have an action parameter identifier a name the parameter type identifier to which it pertains and a description. The parameter components may have a parameter identifier a name the parameter type identifier to which it pertains and a description.

Each rule component may be associated with one or more rule parameter components . The rule components may include a rule identifier a name a condition defining the rule and a description. Although not expressly shown in the rule components may be tracking rule components having tracking rule identifiers or restriction rule components having restriction rule identifiers. The rule parameter components may also be associated with a tracking bucket parameter component . The rule parameter components thus may include a rule identifier parameter identifier and a tracking bucket identifier to which they pertain. Each tracking bucket parameter component may include a bucket identifier a parameter identifier to which it pertains and parameter value that is being tracked. One or more tracking bucket parameter components may pertain to a tracking bucket component . The tracking bucket components may each include a tracking bucket identifier a rule identifier to which it pertains and a sliding window count. Each tracking bucket component pertains to one and only one rule component but each rule component may pertain to zero or more tracking bucket components .

Limit components may be associated with zero or more limit parameter components . The limit components may each be identified by a tracking bucket identifier and may include a tracking rule identifier a restricting rule identifier a count value a time period and an action identifier discussed further below . The limit component may pertain to zero or more limit parameter components which may include a limit identifier to which it pertains a parameter identifier to which it pertains and a parameter value.

A restriction bucket component may pertain to a limit component or to a tracking bucket component . Each restriction bucket component may have a restriction bucket identifier and may include a tracking bucket component to which it pertains a limit identifier to which it pertains a creation time and an expiration time. One or more restriction bucket parameter component may pertain to each restriction bucket component . Each restriction bucket parameter component may include a restriction bucket identifier to which it pertains a parameter identifier to which it pertains and a parameter value.

One or more limit action components may be associated to each limit component . There may be zero or more limit action components associated with a given action component . The action component may include an action identifier a name a description and an action e.g. block message redirect to a particular network address and so forth . The limit action component zero or more of which may pertain to an action component and a limit component thus may be identified by both an action identifier and a limit identifier. The limit action component may include a name a description and an indication of the action to take e.g. block message redirect to a particular network address and so forth . Zero or more limit action components may pertain to a limit action component and may include an action identifier a limit identifier an action parameter identifier and a value at which to take action.

It should be appreciated that the object data model represents only one data model that may be used to construct the rule based rate limiter component . Indeed although the object data model may enable a modular and highly extendable way of implementing the rule based rate limiter component the rule based rate limiter component may be constructed using less modular and less extendable components.

The specific embodiments described above have been shown by way of example and it should be understood that these embodiments may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms. It should be further understood that the claims are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed but rather to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

