---

title: Facilitation of determination of antenna location
abstract: Assisted global positioning system (AGPS) information is retrieved from mobile devices and employed to facilitate antenna location. Measurement information, including AGPS information, can be received from a plurality of mobile devices dispersed over a geographical region. The measurement information can include location and timing information for the plurality of mobile devices. A timing difference between co-located antennas of a base station associated with the plurality of mobile devices can be computed. The location of the co-located antennas can be determined based on evaluating errors resultant from estimations based on a plurality of test locations. The measurement information can be aggregated over time and can be employed to update the antenna locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507009&OS=09507009&RS=09507009
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09507009
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140513
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 483 283 filed May 30 2013 entitled FACILITATION OF DETERMINATION OF ANTENNA LOCATION. The entirety of this application is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to various embodiments that facilitate determination of antenna location within wireless communications networks.

Accurate antenna location information can enable a wireless communications system to provide locating systems and location based services that rely on antenna location information. For example location based services that aide parents in locating children via handset location can be provided. Further accurate antenna location information can also benefit network modeling tools that rely on antenna location information to accurately model signal coverage. As antenna locations change on a tower or rooftop antenna location information can be determined and employed to adjust network modeling tools for improved consistent accuracy.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more of the embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of some embodiments of the embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of the embodiments described herein. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the embodiments nor delineate any scope particular embodiments of the embodiments or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later. It will also be appreciated that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this summary.

In one embodiment a method can include collecting by a system including at least one processor measurement information from a plurality of mobile devices dispersed over a geographical region wherein the measurement information includes location and timing information for the plurality of mobile devices computing by the system a timing difference between co located antennas of a base station associated with the plurality of mobile devices and determining by the system a location of a first one of the co located antennas and a location of a second one of the co located antennas based at least on a plurality of test locations of the second one of the co located antennas and errors associated with the plurality of test locations.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium can include computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include receiving measurement information from a plurality of mobile devices wherein the measurement information comprises assisted global positioning system information and determining at least one estimated base station antenna location based at least on the measurement information.

In one embodiment a system can include a memory that stores computer executable instructions and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory that facilitates execution of computer executable instructions to at least determine information from a plurality of mobile devices and select ones of the plurality of mobile devices to query for assisted global positioning system information based at least on a set of criteria wherein the set of criteria comprise a first criterion based on whether the plurality of mobile devices have a historical active call duration within a predetermined range of time and a second criterion based on whether the plurality of mobile devices are configured with assisted global positioning system capability.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative embodiments of the embodiments. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments can be employed. Other features of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It is evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details and without applying to any particular networked environment or standard .

As used in this application the terms component module system interface platform service framework connector controller or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs. Rather use of the word example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms such as user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station access terminal terminal handset mobile device and or terms representing similar terminology can refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably herein and with reference to the related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station BS Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB and the like are utilized interchangeably in the application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that transmits and or receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from one or more subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout unless context warrants particular distinctions among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based at least on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Embodiments described herein can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology including but not limited to Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee and other 802.XX wireless technologies and or legacy telecommunication technologies. Further the term femto and femtocell are used interchangeably and the terms macro and macrocell are used interchangeably.

Various embodiments described herein relate to efficient use of assisted global positioning system AGPS information retrieval yield and determination of antenna locations using AGPS information. One or more of the embodiments can identify particular mobile terminals and or subscribers associated with such mobile terminals to target for retrieval of AGPS information. Further the AGPS information can be employed to estimate antenna locations within a wireless communication network.

One or more of the embodiments can improve upon previous approaches of manually recording antenna locations by employing aggregated measurements from AGPS information retrieved from mobile terminals within a coverage area of a particular wireless network. In particular measurement information can be retrieved from the IuB interfaces of a set of mobile terminals and aggregated over time. Statistical approaches can be employed to identify the geographic locations of one or more antennas contributing to the set of mobile terminals.

One or more of the embodiments can provide automatic methods to facilitate validation or invalidation of antenna location information input into databases parameters. Such embodiments can lead to specific investigations of the entries and or corrections of those values instrumentation or methods.

One or more embodiments can improve database accuracy which can improve locating systems internal and or external that rely on antenna location information. One or more embodiments can also benefit network modeling tools that rely on accurate antenna placement to accurately model signal coverage. One or more embodiments can improve different types of Location Based Services LBS e.g. services that aide parents in locating children via handset location .

The co located antennas can transmit and or receive information to and or from the antenna location determination system and or the mobile devices .

The mobile devices can be configured with assisted global positioning system AGPS capability and can transmit and or receive AGPS information to or from the antenna location determination system and or the co located antennas . In various embodiments the AGPS information can include but is not limited to location and timing information for the mobile devices . The location and or timing information can be employed to determine antenna locations for co located antennas serving the mobile devices .

The antenna location determination system can determine an estimated location for the co located antennas . In various embodiments the antenna location determination system can receive information from and transmit information to the mobile devices . For example in some embodiments the antenna location determination system can receive AGPS information from one or more of the mobile devices .

The antenna location determination system will now be described in more detail with reference to the remaining figures. Turning first to illustrates an example antenna location determination system that can be employed to facilitate determination of antenna location. The antenna location determination system can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of the antenna location determination system described with reference to and vice versa .

Turning first to the antenna location determination system can include a communication component an aggregation component a computation component a memory a processor and or data storage . In one or more embodiments the communication component aggregation component computation component memory processor and or data storage can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the antenna location determination system .

The communication component can transmit information to and or receive information from one or more mobile devices and or the co located antennas. The information can be measurement information e.g. AGPS information information regarding an estimated antenna location data voice video and or a combination of one or more of the above types of information.

In some embodiments the communication component can select particular mobile devices from which to solicit information e.g. AGPS information . The mobile devices selected by the communication component can be associated with the same co located antennas in various embodiments.

In various embodiments the communication component can communicate with selected pairs of the mobile devices to obtain information for antenna location. By way of example but not limitation with reference to mobile devices can be selected as a first pair of mobile devices from which AGPS information is to be received and mobile devices can be selected as a second pair of mobile devices from which AGPS information is to be received. The information from each pair can be aggregated and employed in the determination of an estimated antenna location.

In various embodiments the AGPS information can be received by the communication component in response to the communication component transmitting one or more AGPS queries to one or more mobile devices.

In some embodiments the communication component can determine the one or more mobile devices to query for AGPS information. The selection of mobile devices to solicit for AGPS information can be made based on whether the mobile devices meet a particular criterion.

In some embodiments the mobile devices selected can be those meeting a fundamental set of criteria. In some embodiments the fundamental criteria can be association with a particular subscriber having AGPS capability currently active and or having a historical telephone call duration within a predetermined range of time.

Specifically the one or more mobile devices that have an active call time duration within a particular range of time can be selected. For example one or more mobile devices having a history of having an active call time duration between approximately 10 and 40 seconds can be selected for solicitation of AGPS information.

In some embodiments mobile devices having a history of active calls with a duration beyond 10 seconds tend to continue longer than a typical short duration call while active calls having a duration of at least 40 seconds are likely to expire prior to receiving a response from the AGPS request which can take approximately 20 to 30 seconds from time of request.

In some embodiments the one or more mobile devices selected by the communication component can be those meeting the fundamental set of criteria and also reporting a current signal strength of at least a predetermined value. For example in some embodiments the one or more mobile devices selected can be those reporting a current signal strength between 90 dBm and 45 dBm.

In some embodiments the one or more mobile devices selected by the communication component can be those meeting the fundamental set of criteria and also reporting at least a predetermined number of TM values in the radio resource control RRC measurement report. In some embodiments the mobile devices selected can be those reporting the highest TM value in the RRC measurement report.

In some embodiments the one or more mobile devices selected by the communication component can be those meeting the fundamental set of criteria and those currently in a selected area of a network. For example an area of a network can be selected based at least on a historical yield of successful responses to the AGPS request that meets or exceeds a particular value. As such the one or more mobile devices queried can be those located in the selected area of the network.

In some embodiments the one or more mobile devices selected by the communication component can be those meeting the fundamental set of criteria and having an AGPS return success rate of a predetermined value.

In some embodiments the one or more mobile devices selected by the communication component can be those meeting the fundamental set of criteria and currently in need of calibration.

In some embodiments only mobile devices associated with a selected subscriber e.g. AT T subscriber having AGPS capability on an active call and having a historical call duration within a predetermined time range are selected by the communication component . The mobile devices that meet such criteria can be prioritized by the communication component based at least on one or more other criteria. For example the mobile devices can be prioritized for selection based on the area of the network in which the mobile devices are located a number of TMs for the mobile devices the AGPS return success rate and or the current signal strengths of the mobile devices.

Turning back to the antenna location determination system of the data storage can be configured to store information transmitted to received by and or processed by the antenna location determination system . In various embodiments the data storage can store information identifying mobile devices selected for query by the communication component TCELL information AGPS information information test antenna locations and or estimated antenna location. In various embodiments TCELL information can include chip offset information associated with BS radios. The BS can be associated with the mobile devices.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the antenna location determination system . Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the antenna location determination system . In some embodiment the processor can perform the one or more functions based on computer executable instructions stored in the memory .

The aggregation component can aggregate the measurement information or portions thereof received from the mobile devices. In various embodiments the aggregation component can aggregate the information over a period of hours days weeks months and or years. As such in some embodiments the measurement information employed for the estimation of the antenna locations can be aggregated measurement information.

The computation component can compute one or more estimated antenna locations. In some embodiments the estimated antenna locations can be the locations of co located antennas described with reference to . In some embodiments the estimated antenna locations are computed based on measured AGPS information and stored TCELL values for the mobile devices transmitting the AGPS information to the antenna location determination system .

The computation component of the antenna location determination system will now be described in more detail with reference to the remaining figures. Turning first to illustrates another example system that can be employed to facilitate determination of antenna location. illustrates an example data storage that facilitates determination of antenna location. The computation component can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of the computation component described with reference to and vice versa .

The computation component can include an observed time difference OTD component common radio offset component path delay component real time difference RTD component outlier determination component test and estimated antenna location TEAL component memory processor and or data storage . In various embodiments one or more of the OTD component common radio offset component path delay component RTD component outlier determination component TEAL component memory processor and or data storage can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one or another to perform one or more of the functions of computation component .

The OTD component can compute the observed time difference between BS radios e.g. BS radios i and j . The BS radios can be associated with mobile devices from which AGPS information is received. In various embodiments the OTD can be derived from the AGPS information received from the mobile devices. For example the OTD component can accumulate OTD values from RRC measurement reports received from the mobile devices transmitting AGPS information. RRC measurement report information can be stored in data storage . The OTD values can be stored as OTD information in the data storage .

The common radio offset component can compute a chip offset between a pair of BS radios e.g. BS radios i and j . In various embodiments a first BS radio e.g. BS radio i for a specific sector can have an offset of 0 while a second BS radio e.g. BS radio j for the sector can have an offset of 1. In various embodiments the offset can be the TCELL value for the BS radio for the sector. In this instance for example the TCELL values can be 0 and 1 respectively. The chip offset can equal the difference between the offsets or can be equal to 1. Each chip offset can correspond to 256 chips. As such a chip offset of 1 can correspond to 256 chips. However in various embodiments the offset can correspond to a different number of chips e.g. an offset of 1 corresponding to 260 chips . In such instances the difference of 4 chips can imply antenna location that has not been properly determined and or accounted for. The antenna location determination system can employ the offset information to increase the likelihood of estimating the actual antenna location. The chip offset can be or be included as the common radio offset information stored in the data storage .

In various embodiments if the BS radios are associated with cell sectors having known and significant radio frequency RF cable delay differences between the BS radios and the cell antenna input ports an offset table can be predetermined for the cell sector. In other embodiments the cable delays between the BS radios and the cell sector antenna inputs can be assumed to be equal for all BS radios in a cell sector.

The path delay component can compute the path delay between signals received from a pair of mobile devices from which the AGPS information is received. The path delay can be or be included within the path delay information stored in the data storage .

The RTD component can compute the transmission time offset between two BSs associated with the co located antennas. The transmission time offset can be included in the real time difference information stored in data storage .

The TEAL component can compute test antenna locations and determine estimated antenna locations. In some embodiments the estimated antenna locations can be determined based on the computed test antenna locations chip offset values and or the OTD values.

With reference to in some embodiments the TEAL component can receive and or process information associated with a first set of mobile devices selected by the communication component to provide AGPS information. For example the TEAL component can receive the OTD values received from the mobile devices. The OTD values can be processed by the OTD component and output to the TEAL component . The TEAL component can also process the chip offset information e.g. TCELL values .

In some embodiments the TEAL component for a pair of mobile devices can employ Equation 1 in computing the estimated antenna location. For example Equation 1 can be OTD CELL valueCELL value 1 where OTDcan be the OTD between BS radio i and BS radio j TCELL valuecan be the TCELL value or chip offset associated with BS radio j TCELL value can be the TCELL value or chip offset associated with BS radio i Dcan be the distance from the mobile device i to antenna i Dcan be the distance from the mobile device j to antenna j and Dcan be the path delay once the RTD is removed from the OTD.

The TEAL component can determine a first set of test antenna locations associated with the first set of mobile devices. In some embodiments the test antenna locations can be stored in the antenna location information in data storage . In some embodiments for each AGPS received from a mobile device within the first set of mobile devices the TEAL component assumes a test antenna location. The assumed test location can be assumed based on the AGPS information received from a mobile device.

The TEAL component can compute a first set of distances between the mobile device and the test antenna location. For example for an assumed test antenna location the TEAL component can compute a distance from the assumed test location to the mobile device providing the AGPS from which the assumed test location was derived.

The TEAL component can compute a second set of distances from a second test antenna location to the location of mobile devices within a second set of mobile devices.

The TEAL component can determine the test antenna location in the second set of test antenna locations that has the lowest error. In some embodiments the test antenna location can have an error that is lower than an error associated with another test antenna location in the second set of test antenna locations. The test antenna location in the second set of test antenna locations that has the lowest error or in some embodiments has a lower error can be the estimated antenna location.

In some embodiments the TEAL component can determine the estimated BS antenna location and or the relative distances between BS antenna locations periodically. For example the determination can be made weekly in some embodiments.

While the description discloses a first set of mobile devices in some embodiments the first set of mobile devices can include only a single mobile device while in other embodiments the first set of mobile devices can include any number of mobile devices selected by the communication component for submission of AGPS information to the antenna location determination system . Also in various embodiments the number of mobile devices in the first set of mobile devices can change as different mobile devices can be aggregated and or removed based on whether the mobile devices meet the criteria for selection whether antenna location estimates need to be updated or the like.

The outlier determination component can determine and or filter out outlier values computed in the process of determining the estimated antenna locations. In some embodiments the outlier values can be those influenced by repeater delay. For example since a repeater in the network receives a radio signal from a mobile device and re broadcasts that signal increased signal time delay can result as the signal is captured processed and re transmitted. This signal time delay can cause a signal received at the antenna location determination system to appear to be a signal transmitted from a distance greater than the actual distance from which the signal was transmitted.

To determine signals having delay resultant from the presence of signals the outlier determination component can employ time delay mapping across the coverage area of the co located antennas. Those signals that are received with delay that is greater than an expected value can be identified as outliers and the signals and or the possible antenna location calculated based on the signal can be filtered. For example in various embodiments the outlier determination component can employ interquartile filtering to identify outlier values and can filter out such values. Interquartile filtering can employ an interquartile range which is a measure of statistical dispersion across a group of data points e.g. possible antenna locations . The interquartile range can be the difference between the upper and lower quartiles of data points.

In some embodiments the outlier determination component can remove one or more test antenna locations that are outliers prior to computation of the first set of distances by the TEAL component . In some embodiments the outlier determination component can remove one or more of the second set of distances that are outliers prior to computation of the second set of distances by the TEAL component .

In some embodiments the outlier determination component can also identify when signals are received with significant time delays from the time that the AGPS request is made. In various embodiments these signals can also be filtered out and or the mobile device from which the signals were received can be identified so that subsequent AGPS requests are not transmitted to the mobile device.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the antenna location determination system . Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the antenna location determination system .

The data storage can be configured to store information transmitted to received by and or processed by the computation component . In various embodiments the data storage can store information identifying mobile devices selected for query by the communication component OTD values RTD values common radio offset information test antenna locations estimated antenna locations path delay information and the like. In some embodiments the data storage can include the information described with reference to data storage of .

Turning first to at method can include collecting by a system including at least one processor measurement information from a plurality of mobile devices dispersed over a geographical region. In some embodiments the measurement information can include location and timing information for the plurality of mobile devices. The system can be the antenna location determination system in some embodiments.

At method can include computing by the system a timing difference between co located antennas of a BS associated with the plurality of mobile devices.

At method can include determining by the system a location of a first one of the co located antennas and a location of a second one of the co located antennas. In some embodiments the determination can be based at least on a plurality of test locations of the second one of the co located antennas and errors associated with the plurality of test locations.

In some embodiments determining the location of the first one of the co located antennas and the location of the second one of the co located antennas can include evaluating a plurality of areas circumscribing the plurality of test locations. Then a plurality of first distances between a plurality of mobile devices and respective plurality of test locations can be assigned.

A plurality of second distances between the plurality of mobile devices and estimated locations of the second one of the co located antennas can be determined. The estimated locations of the second one of the co located antennas can be based on the plurality of first distances.

A plurality of errors between the plurality of second distances and the plurality of test locations can be determined. The errors can be root mean square errors in some embodiments.

One of the plurality of second distances corresponding to the least error can be determined. The location of the second one of the co located antennas can also be determined to be the one of the plurality of second distances corresponding to the least one of the plurality of errors. Further the location of the first one of the co located antennas can be determined to be the one of the plurality of test locations employed to compute the one of the plurality of second distances corresponding to the least one of the plurality of errors.

Turning now to at method can include receiving measurement information from a plurality of mobile devices associated with co located antennas. In various embodiments the measurement information can be aggregated from the mobile devices over a period of hours days weeks months and or years.

In some embodiments the measurement information can include AGPS information. In some embodiments the AGPS information can be received from mobile devices selected according to various criteria. By way of example but not limitation in some embodiments an AGPS query can be sent to mobile devices that are associated with a particular subscriber and that have AGPS capability. In some embodiments the AGPS query can be sent to mobile devices that are also currently involved in an active call and that have a historical call duration time within a particular time range e.g. between approximately 10 and 40 seconds .

At method can include determining at least one estimated BS antenna location. The estimated BS antenna location can be based on the measurement information. In one embodiment the determination of the estimated BS antenna location can be as described with reference to .

Turning now to at method can include selecting at least two pairs of the plurality of the mobile devices associated with received AGPS information. For example from a number of different mobile devices mobile devices can be paired with one another. In one embodiment two mobile devices are associated as a first pair and two other mobile devices are associated as a second pair. In other embodiments one or more of the mobile devices in the pairs can be the same. For example a first mobile device can be associated with a second mobile device to create a first pair and the first mobile device can be associated with a third mobile device to create a second pair.

At method can include determining respective chip offsets between BS radios associated with pairs of the at least two pairs of the plurality of mobile devices. In some embodiments the chip offsets between the BS radios can be the difference between the TCELL value associated with a first BS radio e.g. BS radio i and the TCELL value associated with a second BS radio e.g. BS radio j .

At method can include determining respective OTDs between BS radios associated with at least two pairs of the plurality of mobile devices. The respective OTDs can be derived from the AGPS information from the at least two pairs of the plurality of the mobile devices.

At method can include computing the estimated BS antenna location based at least on the respective chip offsets and the respective OTDs. For example in some embodiments the estimated BS antenna location D can be determined based on Equation 2 below CELLCELL 2 in which OTDcan be the OTD between BS radio i and BS radio j TCELL valuecan be the TCELL value or chip offset associated with BS radio j TCELL valuecan be the TCELL value or chip offset associated with BS radio i Dcan be the distance from the mobile device i to antenna i which can be a test antenna location Dcan be the distance from the mobile device j to antenna j which can be the estimated antenna location and Dcan be the path delay once the RTD is removed from the OTD.

In various embodiments computing the estimated antenna location can be performed as described with reference to .

At method can include determining a first set of test antenna locations associated with a first set of mobile devices of the at least two pairs of the plurality of the mobile devices. The first set of test antenna locations can be derived from respective AGPS information received from the first set of mobile devices.

At method can include computing a first set of distances from the first set of mobile devices to the first set of test antenna locations associated with respective ones of the first set of the mobile devices.

At method can include computing a second set of distances from a second set of mobile devices of the at least two pairs of the plurality of mobile devices to respective ones of the second set of test antenna locations for the second set of mobile devices.

At method can include computing respective errors for the respective second set of test antenna locations. In various embodiments the errors can be root mean square errors.

At method can include determining one of the second set of test antenna locations having a lower error than another one of the respective second set of test antenna locations wherein the one of the second set of test antenna locations having the lower error is the at least one estimated antenna location. In some embodiments the one of the second set of test antenna locations having the lowest error of the errors for the second set of test antenna locations is the at least one estimated antenna location.

Turning to at method can include determining a first set of test antenna locations associated with a first set of mobile devices. The first set of test antenna locations can be derived from respective AGPS information received from the first set of the mobile devices.

At method can include removing at least one of the first set of test antenna locations. The test antenna location can be removed based on a determination that the test antenna location that is determined in is influenced by a repeater delay.

At method can include removing at least one of a second set of test antenna locations. The second set of test antenna locations can be derived based on the first test antenna locations and the second set of mobile devices generating AGPS information. The test antenna location can be removed based on a determination that the test antenna location that is determined is influenced by a repeater delay.

At method can include computing respective errors for the second set of test antenna locations. In some embodiments the errors can be root mean square errors.

At method can include determining a one of the second set of test antenna locations having the lowest error as the estimated antenna location.

In some embodiments antenna location is estimated in latitude and longitude. Once antenna location is estimated a subset of the AGPS location information can be employed to estimate the antenna heights. In some embodiments for example pairs of antenna heights can be iteratively tested around database provided values to hone in on the best fit to the dataset.

In some embodiments the mobile device can be assumed to be limited to be no closer than 10 times the antenna height above ground level. In some embodiments the great circle or haversine formula can be employed to calculate distance.

In various embodiments a selected number of RANAP AGPS values and a selected set of most recently received RRC MR information can be stored. Old values can be flushed out in a first in first out fashion in some embodiments. Accordingly antenna location changes can be determined based on re computations of antenna locations performed when new RANAP AGPS values and or RRC measurement report information is received.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to facilitate antenna location determination. For example in some embodiments the computer can be or be included within the antenna location determination system .

In order to provide additional context for various embodiments of the embodiments described herein and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various embodiments of the embodiment described herein can be implemented. While the embodiments have been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments can be also implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated embodiments of the embodiments herein can be also practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various embodiments of the aspects described herein includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1094 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the embodiments described herein.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a hard disk drive HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods described herein.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . The systems and methods described herein can be implemented utilizing various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that can be coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a universal serial bus USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer can be connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless AP disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or can be connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device can be connected to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer can be operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This can include Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi and BLUETOOTH wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi can allow connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which can use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The embodiments described herein can employ artificial intelligence AI to facilitate automating one or more features described herein. The embodiments e.g. in connection with automatically identifying acquired cell sites that provide a maximum value benefit after addition to an existing communication network can employ various AI based schemes for carrying out various embodiments thereof. Moreover the classifier can be employed to determine a ranking or priority of the each cell site of the acquired network. A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 . . . xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated one or more of the embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing UE behavior operator preferences historical information receiving extrinsic information . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria which of the acquired cell sites will benefit a maximum number of subscribers and or which of the acquired cell sites will add minimum value to the existing communication network coverage etc.

As employed herein the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

As used herein terms such as data storage data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

Memory disclosed herein can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data storages databases of the embodiments are intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes mere examples of various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing these examples but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present embodiments are possible. Accordingly the embodiments disclosed and or claimed herein are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

