---

title: Engineering and optimization of improved systems, methods and enzyme compositions for sequence manipulation
abstract: The invention provides for engineering and optimization of systems, methods, and compositions for manipulation of sequences and/or activities of target sequences. Provided are compositions and methods related to components of a CRISPR complex particularly comprising a Cas ortholog enzyme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08889418&OS=08889418&RS=08889418
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 08889418
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140602
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 104 977 filed Dec. 12 2013 and which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61 836 101 entitled ENGINEERING AND OPTIMIZATION OF IMPROVED SYSTEMS METHODS AND ENZYME COMPOSITIONS FOR SEQUENCE MANIPULATION filed on Jun. 17 2013. This application also claims priority to U.S. provisional patent applications 61 758 468 61 769 046 61 802 174 61 806 375 61 814 263 61 819 803 and 61 828 130 each entitled ENGINEERING AND OPTIMIZATION OF SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR SEQUENCE MANIPULATION filed on Jan. 30 2013 Feb. 25 2013 Mar. 15 2013 Mar. 28 2013 Apr. 20 2013 May 6 2013 and May 28 2013 respectively. This application also claims priority to U.S. provisional patent applications 61 736 527 and 61 748 427 both entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR SEQUENCE MANIPULATION filed on Dec. 12 2012 and Jan. 2 2013 respectively. Priority is also claimed to U.S. provisional patent applications 61 791 409 and 61 835 931 filed on Mar. 15 2013 and Jun. 17 2013 respectively.

This invention was made with government support under the NIH Pioneer Award 1DP1MH100706 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Reference is also made to U.S. provisional patent applications 61 836 127 61 835 936 61 836 080 61 836 123 and 61 835 973 each filed Jun. 17 2013.

The foregoing applications and all documents cited therein or during their prosecution appln cited documents and all documents cited or referenced in the appln cited documents and all documents cited or referenced herein herein cited documents and all documents cited or referenced in herein cited documents together with any manufacturer s instructions descriptions product specifications and product sheets for any products mentioned herein or in any document incorporated by reference herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference and may be employed in the practice of the invention. More specifically all referenced documents are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to the engineering and optimization of systems methods and compositions used for the control of gene expression involving sequence targeting such as genome perturbation or gene editing that relate to Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats CRISPR and components thereof.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Feb. 24 2014 is named 44790.00.2042 SL.txt and is 476 273 bytes in size.

Recent advances in genome sequencing techniques and analysis methods have significantly accelerated the ability to catalog and map genetic factors associated with a diverse range of biological functions and diseases. Precise genome targeting technologies are needed to enable systematic reverse engineering of causal genetic variations by allowing selective perturbation of individual genetic elements as well as to advance synthetic biology biotechnological and medical applications. Although genome editing techniques such as designer zinc fingers transcription activator like effectors TALEs or homing meganucleases are available for producing targeted genome perturbations there remains a need for new genome engineering technologies that are affordable easy to set up scalable and amenable to targeting multiple positions within the eukaryotic genome.

The CRISPR Cas or the CRISPR Cas system both terms are used interchangeably throughout this application does not require the generation of customized proteins to target specific sequences but rather a single Cas enzyme can be programmed by a short RNA molecule to recognize a specific DNA target in other words the Cas enzyme can be recruited to a specific DNA target using said short RNA molecule. Adding the CRISPR Cas system to the repertoire of genome sequencing techniques and analysis methods may significantly simplify the methodology and accelerate the ability to catalog and map genetic factors associated with a diverse range of biological functions and diseases. To utilize the CRISPR Cas system effectively for genome editing without deleterious effects it is critical to understand aspects of engineering and optimization of these genome engineering tools which are aspects of the claimed invention.

Accordingly there exists a pressing need for alternative and robust systems and techniques for sequence targeting with a wide array of applications. Aspects of this invention address this need and provide related advantages. An exemplary CRISPR complex comprises a CRISPR enzyme complexed with a guide sequence hybridized to a target sequence within the target polynucleotide wherein the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas ortholog e.g. a Cas9 ortholog of a genus which includes but is not limited to and . The guide sequence is linked to a tracr mate sequence which in turn hybridizes to a tracr sequence.

In one aspect the invention provides methods for using one or more elements of a CRISPR system. The CRISPR complex of the invention provides an effective means for modifying a target polynucleotide. The CRISPR complex of the invention has a wide variety of utilities including modifying e.g. deleting inserting translocating inactivating activating repressing altering methylation transferring specific moieties a target polynucleotide in a multiplicity of cell types. As such the CRISPR complex of the invention has a broad spectrum of applications in e.g. gene or genome editing gene regulation gene therapy drug discovery drug screening disease diagnosis and prognosis. In preferred aspects of the invention the CRISPR complex comprises a Cas enzyme preferably a Cas9 ortholog of a genus which includes but is not limited to and

Aspects of the invention relate to CRISPR enzymes having optimized function. With regard to the CRISPR enzyme being a Cas enzyme preferred embodiments of the invention relate to Cas9 orthologs having improved target specificity in a CRISPR Cas9 system. This may be accomplished by approaches that include but are not limited to designing and preparing guide RNAs having optimal activity selecting Cas9 enzymes of a specific length truncating the Cas9 enzyme making it smaller in length than the corresponding wild type Cas9 enzyme by truncating the nucleic acid molecules coding therefor and generating chimeric Cas9 enzymes wherein different parts of the enzyme are swapped or exchanged between different orthologs to arrive at chimeric enzymes having tailored specificity. Aspects of the invention also relate to methods of improving the target specificity of a Cas9 ortholog enzyme or of designing a CRISPR Cas9 system comprising designing or preparing guide RNAs having optimal activity and or selecting or preparing a Cas9 ortholog enzyme having a smaller size or length than the corresponding wild type Cas9 whereby packaging a nucleic acid coding therefor into a delivery vector is advanced as there is less coding sequence therefor in the delivery vector than for the corresponding wild type Cas9 and or generating chimeric Cas9 enzymes.

Also provided are uses of the present sequences vectors enzymes or systems in medicine. Also provided are the same for use in gene or genome editing. Also provided is use of the same in the manufacture of a medicament for gene or genome editing for instance treatment by gene or genome editing. Also provided are the present sequences vectors enzymes or systems for use in therapy.

In an additional aspect of the invention a CRISPR enzyme e.g. a Cas9 enzyme may comprise one or more mutations and may be used as a generic DNA binding protein with or without fusion to or being operably linked to a functional domain. The mutations may be artificially introduced mutations and may include but are not limited to one or more mutations in a catalytic domain. Examples of catalytic domains with reference to a Cas9 enzyme may include but are not limited to RuvC I RuvC II RuvC III and HNH domains. Preferred examples of suitable mutations are the catalytic residue s in the N term RuvC I domain of Cas9 or the catalytic residue s in the internal HNH domain. In some embodiments the Cas9 is or is derived from the Cas9 SpCas9 . In such embodiments preferred mutations are at any or all of positions 10 762 840 854 863 and or 986 of SpCas9 or corresponding positions in other Cas9 orthologs with reference to the position numbering of SpCas9 which may be ascertained for instance by standard sequence comparison tools e.g. ClustalW or MegAlign by Lasergene 10 suite . In particular any or all of the following mutations are preferred in SpCas9 D10A E762A H840A N854A N863A and or D986A as well as conservative substitution for any of the replacement amino acids is also envisaged. The same mutations or conservative substitutions of these mutations at corresponding positions with reference to the position numbering of SpCas9 in other Cas9 orthologs are also preferred. Particularly preferred are D10 and H840 in SpCas9. However in other Cas9s residues corresponding to SpCas9 D10 and H840 are also preferred. These are advantageous as when singly mutated they provide nickase activity and when both mutations are present the Cas9 is converted into a catalytically null mutant which is useful for generic DNA binding. Further mutations have been identified and characterized. Other aspects of the invention relate to the mutated Cas 9 enzyme being fused to or operably linked to domains which include but are not limited to a transcriptional activator transcriptional repressor a recombinase a transposase a histone remodeler a DNA methyltransferase a cryptochrome a light inducible controllable domain or a chemically inducible controllable domain.

A further aspect of the invention provides for chimeric Cas9 proteins and methods of generating chimeric Cas9 proteins. Chimeric Cas9 proteins are proteins that comprise fragments that originate from different Cas9 orthologs. For instance the N terminal of a first Cas9 ortholog may be fused with the C terminal of a second Cas9 ortholog to generate a resultant Cas9 chimeric protein. These chimeric Cas9 proteins may have a higher specificity or a higher efficiency than the original specificity or efficiency of either of the individual Cas9 enzymes from which the chimeric protein was generated. These chimeric proteins may also comprise one or more mutations or may be linked to one or more functional domains. Therefore aspects of the invention relate to a chimeric Cas enzyme wherein the enzyme comprises one or more fragments from a first Cas ortholog and one or more fragments from a second Cas ortholog. In a embodiment of the invention the one or more fragments of the first or second Cas ortholog are from the C or N terminal of the first or second Cas ortholog. In a further embodiment the first or second Cas ortholog is selected from a genus belonging to the group consisting of and

In a further embodiment the invention provides for methods to generate mutant components of the CRISPR complex comprising a Cas enzyme e.g Cas9 ortholog. The mutant components may include but are not limited to mutant tracrRNA and tracr mate sequences or mutant chimeric guide sequences that allow for enhancing performance of these RNAs in cells. Use of the present composition or the enzyme in the preparation of a medicament for modification of a target sequence is also provided.

The invention in yet a further aspect provides compositions and methods related to a non naturally occurring or engineered composition comprising 

A I. a CRISPR Cas system chimeric RNA chiRNA polynucleotide sequence wherein the polynucleotide sequence comprises 

II. a polynucleotide sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme comprising at least one or more nuclear localization sequences 

wherein when transcribed the tracr mate sequence hybridizes to the tracr sequence and the guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to the target sequence and

wherein the CRISPR complex comprises the CRISPR enzyme complexed with 1 the guide sequence that is hybridized to the target sequence and 2 the tracr mate sequence that is hybridized to the tracr sequence and the polynucleotide sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme is DNA or RNA or B I. polynucleotides comprising a a guide sequence capable of hybridizing to a target sequence in a prokaryotic cell and b at least one or more tracr mate sequences II. a polynucleotide sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme and III. a polynucleotide sequence comprising a tracr sequence wherein when transcribed the tracr mate sequence hybridizes to the tracr sequence and the guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to the target sequence and wherein the CRISPR complex comprises the CRISPR enzyme complexed with 1 the guide sequence that is hybridized to the target sequence and 2 the tracr mate sequence that is hybridized to the tracr sequence and the polynucleotide sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme is DNA or RNA and wherein the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas9 ortholog of a genus belonging to the group consisting of and

The invention in yet a further aspect provides A A non naturally occurring or engineered composition comprising a vector system comprising one or more vectors comprising I. a first regulatory element operably linked to a CRISPR Cas system chimeric RNA chiRNA polynucleotide sequence wherein the polynucleotide sequence comprises a a guide sequence capable of hybridizing to a target sequence in a eukaryotic cell b a tracr mate sequence and c a tracr sequence and II. a second regulatory element operably linked to an enzyme coding sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme comprising at least one or more nuclear localization sequences wherein a b and c are arranged in a 5 to 3 orientation wherein components I and II are located on the same or different vectors of the system wherein when transcribed the tracr mate sequence hybridizes to the tracr sequence and the guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to the target sequence and wherein the CRISPR complex comprises the CRISPR enzyme complexed with 1 the guide sequence that is hybridized to the target sequence and 2 the tracr mate sequence that is hybridized to the tracr sequence wherein the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas9 ortholog of a genus belonging to the group consisting of and or B a non naturally occurring or engineered composition comprising a vector system comprising one or more vectors comprising I. a first regulatory element operably linked to a a guide sequence capable of hybridizing to a target sequence in a prokaryotic cell and b at least one or more tracr mate sequences II. a second regulatory element operably linked to an enzyme coding sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme and III. a third regulatory element operably linked to a tracr sequence wherein components I II and III are located on the same or different vectors of the system wherein when transcribed the tracr mate sequence hybridizes to the tracr sequence and the guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to the target sequence and wherein the CRISPR complex comprises the CRISPR enzyme complexed with 1 the guide sequence that is hybridized to the target sequence and 2 the tracr mate sequence that is hybridized to the tracr sequence wherein the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas9 ortholog of a genus belonging to the group consisting of and and wherein at least one of the following criteria applies.

The criteria are as follows and it will be appreciated that any number of these may apply preferably 1 or more preferably 2 or more and preferably 3 or more 4 or more or 5 or more or all may apply 

the CRISPR enzyme having a specific size is selected and has a length of at least 500 amino acids at least 800 899 amino acids at least 900 999 amino acids at least 1000 1099 amino acids at least 1100 1199 amino acids at least 1200 1299 amino acids at least 1300 1399 amino acids at least 1400 1499 amino acids at least 1500 1599 amino acids at least 1600 1699 amino acids or at least 2000 amino acids 

and or the CRISPR enzyme is a nuclease directing cleavage of both strands at the location of the target sequence or the CRISPR enzyme is a nickase directing cleavage of one strand at the location of the target sequence 

In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is truncated in comparison to a wild type CRISPR enzyme or the CRISPR enzyme is comprised of at least 500 amino acids at least 800 899 amino acids at least 900 999 amino acids at least 1000 1099 amino acids at least 1100 1199 amino acids at least 1200 1299 amino acids at least 1300 1399 amino acids at least 1400 1499 amino acids at least 1500 1599 amino acids at least 1600 1699 amino acids or at least 2000 amino acids. In preferred embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas enzyme e.g. a Cas9 ortholog.

In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a nuclease directing cleavage of both strands at the location of the target sequence or the CRISPR enzyme is a nickase directing cleavage of one strand at the location of the target sequence. In further embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a catalytically null mutant that is a generic DNA binding protein. In preferred embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas enzyme e.g. a Cas9 ortholog.

In some embodiments the guide sequence comprises at least fifteen nucleotides. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is codon optimized or codon optimized for expression in a eukaryotic cell. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme comprises one or more mutations. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme comprises a chimeric CRISPR enzyme. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme has one or more other attributes herein discussed. In preferred embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas enzyme e.g. a Cas9 ortholog.

In certain embodiments the CRISPR enzyme comprises one or more mutations. The one or more mutations may be in a particular domain of the enzyme. In a preferred embodiment the one or more mutations may be in a catalytic domain. In a further preferred embodiment the catalytic domain is a RuvC I RuvC II RuvC III or HNH domain. In a more preferred embodiment the one or more mutations is in a RuvC1 or HNH domain of the CRISPR enzyme. In a further preferred embodiment the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas enzyme e.g. a Cas9 ortholog and the mutation may be at one or positions that include but are not limited to positions that correspond to D10A E762A H840A N854A N863A or D986A with reference to the position numbering of SpCas9 and or is a mutation as otherwise discussed herein. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme has one or more mutations in a particular domain of the enzyme wherein when transcribed the tracr mate sequence hybridizes to the tracr sequence and the guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to the target sequence and wherein the enzyme further comprises a functional domain. The functional domain may include but is not limited to transcriptional activator transcriptional repressor a recombinase a transposase a histone remodeler a DNA methyltransferase a cryptochrome a light inducible controllable domain or a chemically inducible controllable domain.

In some embodiments the functional domain is the transcriptional activator domain VP64. In some embodiments the functional domain is the transcriptional repressor domain KRAB. In some embodiments the transcriptional repressor domain is SID or concatemers of SID i.e. SID4X . In some embodiments an epigenetic modifying enzyme is provided e.g a histone modifying protein or an epigenetic chromatin modifying protein. In some embodiments an activator domain is provided which may be the P65 activator domain.

A further aspect of the invention comprehends methods of modifying two or more genomic loci of interest. In a preferred embodiment of the invention two or more genomic loci are differentially modulated by utilizing one or more CRISPR enzymes e.g. two or more Cas9 orthologs each ortholog being operably linked to one or more functional domain. In one aspect the invention provides for a method of modifying two or more genomic loci in a eukaryotic cell. Therefore aspects of the invention provide for a method of modulating the expression of two or more genomic loci of interest in an organism comprising delivering a non naturally occurring or engineered composition comprising a vector system comprising one or more vectors comprising

I. a first regulatory element operably linked to a first CRISPR Cas system chimeric RNA chiRNA polynucleotide sequence wherein the first polynucleotide sequence comprises

 i a first guide sequence capable of hybridizing to a first target sequence at a first genomic locus in a cell of the organism 

II. a second regulatory element operably linked to a second CRISPR Cas system chimeric RNA chiRNA polynucleotide sequence wherein the second polynucleotide sequence comprises

 i a second guide sequence capable of hybridizing to a second target sequence at a second genomic locus in the cell of the organism 

III. a third regulatory element operably linked to an enzyme coding sequence encoding a first CRISPR enzyme comprising at least one or more nuclear localization sequences and operably linked to a first functional domain 

IV. a fourth regulatory element operably linked to an enzyme coding sequence encoding a second CRISPR enzyme comprising at least one or more nuclear localization sequences and operably linked to a second functional domain wherein i ii and iii in I and II are arranged in a 5 to 3 orientation wherein components I II III and IV are located on the same or different vectors of the system wherein when transcribed each tracr mate sequences hybridizes to its corresponding tracr sequence and the first and second guide sequences direct sequence specific binding of the first and second CRISPR complex to the first and second target sequence wherein the CRISPR complex comprises the CRISPR enzyme complexed with 1 the guide sequence that is hybridized to the target sequence and 2 the tracr mate sequence that is hybridized to the tracr sequence and wherein expression of the CRISPR enzyme provides manipulation of the target sequence wherein the first and second CRISPR enzyme each comprise two or more mutations wherein the first and second CRISPR enzyme is a Cas9 ortholog of a genus belonging to the group consisting of and and wherein the first genomic locus is modulated by the activity of the first functional domain and the second genomic locus is modulated by the activity of the second functional domain. In a further embodiment the first functional domain is selected from the group consisting of a transcriptional activator transcriptional repressor a recombinase a transposase a histone remodeler a DNA methyltransferase a cryptochrome and a light inducible controllable domain or a chemically inducible controllable domain. In a further embodiment the second functional domain is selected from the group consisting of a transcriptional activator transcriptional repressor a recombinase a transposase a histone remodeler a DNA methyltransferase a cryptochrome and a light inducible controllable domain or a chemically inducible controllable domain. In preferred embodiments the first or second CRISPR enzyme is a Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9 a subsubspecies Cas9 a Paris Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9 a Cas9.

In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a type I II or III CRISPR enzyme preferably a type II CRISPR enzyme. This type II CRISPR enzyme may be any Cas enzyme. A Cas enzyme may be identified as Cas9 as this can refer to the general class of enzymes that share homology to the biggest nuclease with multiple nuclease domains from the type II CRISPR system. Most preferably the Cas9 enzyme is from or is derived from SpCas9 or subsubspecies SaCas9. By derived it is meant that the derived enzyme is largely based in the sense of having a high degree of sequence homology with a wildtype enzyme but that it has been mutated modified in some way as described herein.

It will be appreciated that the terms Cas and CRISPR enzyme are generally used herein interchangeably unless otherwise apparent. As mentioned above many of the residue numberings used herein refer to the Cas9 enzyme from the type II CRISPR locus in . However it will be appreciated that this invention includes many more Cas9s from other species of microbes such as those belonging to the genus or such as SpCas9 SaCas9 St1 Cas9 St3Cas9 and so forth wherein St is

An example of a codon optimized sequence in this instance optimized for humans i.e. being optimized for expression in humans is provided herein see the SaCas9 human codon optimized sequence. Whilst this is preferred it will be appreciated that other examples are possible and codon optimization for a host species is known.

Further aspects of the invention relate to improved cleavage specificity optimized tracr sequence optimized chimeric guide RNA co fold structure of tracrRNA and tracr mate sequence stabilizing secondary structures of tracr RNA tracrRNA with shortened region of base pairing tracrRNA with fused RNA elements simplified cloning and delivery reduced toxicity and or inducible systems. Another aspect of the invention relates to the stabilization of chimeric RNA and or guide sequence and or a portion thereof of CRISPR complexes wherein the CRISPR enzyme is a CRISPR ortholog wherein the chimeric RNA and or guide sequence and or a portion thereof is stabilized by synthetic or chemically modified nucleotides e.g. LNA BNA thiol modification 2 3 OH crosslink modification is modified to be degradation hydrolysis resistant and to which elements of structural stability have been added.

The invention further comprehends in certain embodiments a method of modifying an organism or a non human organism by manipulation of a target sequence in a genomic locus of interest comprising delivering a non naturally occurring or engineered composition comprising a vector system comprising one or more vectors operably encoding a composition herein discussed for expression thereof. Preferably the vector is a viral vector such as a lenti or baculo or preferably adeno viral adeno associated viral vectors but other means of delivery are known such as yeast systems microvesicles gene guns means of attaching vectors to gold nanoparticles and are provided.

The CRISPR enzyme for instance a Cas9 and or any of the present RNAs for instance a guide RNA can be delivered using adeno associated virus AAV lentivirus adenovirus or other viral vector types or combinations thereof. Cas9 and one or more guide RNAs can be packaged into one or more viral vectors. In some embodiments the viral vector is delivered to the tissue of interest by for example an intramuscular injection while other times the viral delivery is via intravenous transdermal intranasal oral mucosal or other delivery methods. Such delivery may be either via a single dose or multiple doses. One skilled in the art understands that the actual dosage to be delivered herein may vary greatly depending upon a variety of factors such as the vector chosen the target cell organism or tissue the general condition of the subject to be treated the degree of transformation modification sought the administration route the administration mode the type of transformation modification sought etc.

Such a dosage may further contain for example a carrier water saline ethanol glycerol lactose sucrose calcium phosphate gelatin dextran agar pectin peanut oil sesame oil etc. a diluent a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier e.g. phosphate buffered saline a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient an adjuvant to enhance antigenicity an immunostimulatory compound or molecule and or other compounds known in the art. The adjuvant herein may contain a suspension of minerals alum aluminum hydroxide aluminum phosphate on which antigen is adsorbed or water in oil emulsion in which antigen solution is emulsified in oil MF 59 Freund s incomplete adjuvant sometimes with the inclusion of killed mycobacteria Freund s complete adjuvant to further enhance antigenicity inhibits degradation of antigen and or causes influx of macrophages . Adjuvants also include immunostimulatory molecules such as cytokines costimulatory molecules and for example immunostimulatory DNA or RNA molecules such as CpG oligonucleotides. Such a dosage formulation is readily ascertainable by one skilled in the art. The dosage may further contain one or more pharmaceutically acceptable salts such as for example a mineral acid salt such as a hydrochloride a hydrobromide a phosphate a sulfate etc. and the salts of organic acids such as acetates propionates malonates benzoates etc. Additionally auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering substances gels or gelling materials flavorings colorants microspheres polymers suspension agents etc. may also be present. In addition one or more other conventional pharmaceutical ingredients such as preservatives humectants suspending agents surfactants antioxidants anticaking agents fillers chelating agents coating agents chemical stabilizers etc. may also be present especially if the dosage form is a reconstitutable form. Suitable exemplary ingredients include microcrystalline cellulose carboxymethylcellulose sodium polysorbate 80 phenylethyl alcohol chlorobutanol potassium sorbate sorbic acid sulfur dioxide propyl gallate the parabens ethyl vanillin glycerin phenol parachlorophenol gelatin albumin and a combination thereof. A thorough discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients is available in REMINGTON S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES Mack Pub. Co. N.J. 1991 which is incorporated by reference herein.

In an embodiment herein the delivery is via an adenovirus which may be at a single booster dose containing at least 1 10particles also referred to as particle units pu of adenoviral vector. In an embodiment herein the dose preferably is at least about 1 10particles for example about 1 10 1 10particles more preferably at least about 1 10particles more preferably at least about 1 10particles e.g. about 1 10 1 10particles or about 1 10 1 10particles and most preferably at least about 1 10particles e.g. about 1 10 1 10particles or about 1 10 1 10particles or even at least about 1 10particles e.g. about 1 10 1 10particles of the adenoviral vector. Alternatively the dose comprises no more than about 1 10particles preferably no more than about 1 10particles even more preferably no more than about 1 10particles even more preferably no more than about 1 10particles and most preferably no more than about 1 10particles e.g. no more than about 1 10articles . Thus the dose may contain a single dose of adenoviral vector with for example about 1 10particle units pu about 2 10pu about 4 10pu about 1 10pu about 2 10pu about 4 10pu about 1 10pu about 2 10pu about 4 10pu about 1 10pu about 2 10pu about 4 10pu about 1 10pu about 2 10pu about 4 10pu about 1 10pu about 2 10pu about 4 10pu about 1 10pu about 2 10pu or about 4 10pu of adenoviral vector. See for example the adenoviral vectors in U.S. Pat. No. 8 454 972 B2 to Nabel et. al. granted on Jun. 4 2013 incorporated by reference herein and the dosages at col 29 lines 36 58 thereof. In an embodiment herein the adenovirus is delivered via multiple doses.

In an embodiment herein the delivery is via an AAV. A therapeutically effective dosage for in vivo delivery of the AAV to a human is believed to be in the range of from about 20 to about 50 ml of saline solution containing from about 1 10to about 1 10functional AAV ml solution. The dosage may be adjusted to balance the therapeutic benefit against any side effects. In an embodiment herein the AAV dose is generally in the range of concentrations of from about 1 10to 1 10genomes AAV from about 1 10to 1 10genomes AAV from about 1 10to about 1 10genomes or about 1 10to about 1 10genomes AAV. A human dosage may be about 1 10genomes AAV. Such concentrations may be delivered in from about 0.001 ml to about 100 ml about 0.05 to about 50 ml or about 10 to about 25 ml of a carrier solution. Other effective dosages can be readily established by one of ordinary skill in the art through routine trials establishing dose response curves. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 404 658 B2 to Hajjar et al. granted on Mar. 26 2013 at col. 27 lines 45 60.

In an embodiment herein the delivery is via a plasmid. In such plasmid compositions the dosage should be a sufficient amount of plasmid to elicit a response. For instance suitable quantities of plasmid DNA in plasmid compositions can be from about 0.1 to about 2 mg or from about 1 g to about 10 g.

The doses herein are based on an average 70 kg individual. The frequency of administration is within the ambit of the medical or veterinary practitioner e.g. physician veterinarian or scientist skilled in the art.

The viral vectors can be injected into the tissue of interest. For cell type specific genome modification the expression of Cas9 can be driven by a cell type specific promoter. For example liver specific expression might use the Albumin promoter and neuron specific expression might use the Synapsin I promoter.

RNA delivery The CRISPR enzyme for instance a Cas9 and or any of the present RNAs for instance a guide RNA can also be delivered in the form of RNA. Cas9 mRNA can be generated using in vitro transcription. For example Cas9 mRNA can be synthesized using a PCR cassette containing the following elements T7 promoter kozak sequence GCCACC Cas9 3 UTR from beta globin polyA tail a string of 120 or more adenines . The cassette can be used for transcription by T7 polymerase. Guide RNAs can also be transcribed using in vitro transcription from a cassette containing T7 promoter GG guide RNA sequence.

To enhance expression and reduce toxicity the CRISPR enzyme and or guide RNA can be modified using pseudo U or 5 Methyl C.

CRISPR enzyme mRNA and guide RNA may be delivered simultaneously using nanoparticles or lipid envelopes.

For example Su X Fricke J Kavanagh D G Irvine D J In vitro and in vivo mRNA delivery using lipid enveloped pH responsive polymer nanoparticles Mol Pharm. 2011 Jun. 6 8 3 774 87. doi 10.1021 mp100390w. Epub 2011 Apr. 1 describes biodegradable core shell structured nanoparticles with a poly amino ester PBAE core enveloped by a phospholipid bilayer shell. These were developed for in vivo mRNA delivery. The pH responsive PBAE component was chosen to promote endosome disruption while the lipid surface layer was selected to minimize toxicity of the polycation core. Such are therefore preferred for delivering RNA of the present invention.

Furthermore Michael S D Kormann et al. Expression of therapeutic proteins after delivery of chemically modified mRNA in mice Nature Biotechnology Volume 29 Pages 154 157 2011 Published online 9 Jan. 2011 describes the use of lipid envelopes to deliver RNA. Use of lipid envelopes is also preferred in the present invention.

CRISPR enzyme mRNA and guideRNA might also be delivered separately. CRISPR enzyme mRNA can be delivered prior to the guide RNA to give time for CRISPR enzyme to be expressed. CRISPR enzyme mRNA might be administered 1 12 hours preferably around 2 6 hours prior to the administration of guideRNA.

Alternatively CRISPR enzyme mRNA and guide RNA can be administered together. Advantageously a second booster dose of guide RNA can be administered 1 12 hours preferably around 2 6 hours after the initial administration of CRISPR enzyme mRNA guideRNA.

Additional administrations of CRISPR enzyme mRNA and or guide RNA might be useful to achieve the most efficient levels of genome modification.

For minimization of toxicity and off target effects it will be important to control the concentration of CRISPR enzyme mRNA and guide RNA delivered. Optimal concentrations of CRISPR enzyme mRNA and guide RNA can be determined by testing different concentrations in a cellular or animal model and using deep sequencing to analyze the extent of modification at potential off target genomic loci. For example for the guide sequence targeting 5 GAGTCCGAGCAGAAGAAGAA 3 SEQ ID NO 1 in the EMX1 gene of the human genome deep sequencing can be used to assess the level of modification at the following two off target loci 1 5 GAGTCCTAGCAGGAGAAGAA 3 SEQ ID NO 2 and 2 5 GAGTCTAAGCAGAAGAAGAA 3 SEQ ID NO 3 . The concentration that gives the highest level of on target modification while minimizing the level of off target modification should be chosen for in vivo delivery.

Alternatively to minimize the level of toxicity and off target effects CRISPR enzyme nickase mRNA for example Cas9 with the D10A mutation can be delivered with a pair of guide RNAs targeting a site of interest. The two guide RNAs need to be spaced as follows. Guide sequences in red single underline and blue double underline respectively these examples are based on the PAM requirement for Cas9 .

Further interrogation of the system has given Applicants evidence of the 5 overhang see e.g. Ran et al. Cell. 2013 Sep. 12 154 6 1380 9 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 871 301 filed Aug. 28 2013 . Applicants have further identified parameters that relate to efficient cleavage by the Cas9 nickase mutant when combined with two guide RNAs and these parameters include but are not limited to the length of the 5 overhang. In embodiments of the invention the 5 overhang is at most 200 base pairs preferably at most 100 base pairs or more preferably at most 50 base pairs. In embodiments of the invention the 5 overhang is at least 26 base pairs preferably at least 30 base pairs or more preferably 34 50 base pairs or 1 34 base pairs. In other preferred methods of the invention the first guide sequence directing cleavage of one strand of the DNA duplex near the first target sequence and the second guide sequence directing cleavage of other strand near the second target sequence results in a blunt cut or a 3 overhang. In embodiments of the invention the 3 overhang is at most 150 100 or 25 base pairs or at least 15 10 or 1 base pairs. In preferred embodiments the 3 overhang is 1 100 base pairs.

Aspects of the invention relate to the expression of the gene product being decreased or a template polynucleotide being further introduced into the DNA molecule encoding the gene product or an intervening sequence being excised precisely by allowing the two 5 overhangs to reanneal and ligate or the activity or function of the gene product being altered or the expression of the gene product being increased. In an embodiment of the invention the gene product is a protein.

Only sgRNA pairs creating 5 overhangs with less than 8 bp overlap between the guide sequences offset greater than 8 bp were able to mediate detectable indel formation. Importantly each guide used in these assays is able to efficiently induce indels when paired with wildtype Cas9 indicating that the relative positions of the guide pairs are the most important parameters in predicting double nicking activity.

Since Cas9n and Cas9H840A nick opposite strands of DNA substitution of Cas9n with Cas9H840A with a given sgRNA pair should result in the inversion of the overhang type. For example a pair of sgRNAs that will generate a 5 overhang with Cas9n should in principle generate the corresponding 3 overhang instead. Therefore sgRNA pairs that lead to the generation of a 3 overhang with Cas9n might be used with Cas9H840A to generate a 5 overhang. Unexpectedly Applicants tested Cas9H840A with a set of sgRNA pairs designed to generate both 5 and 3 overhangs offset range from 278 to 58 bp but were unable to observe indel formation. Further work may be needed to identify the necessary design rules for sgRNA pairing to allow double nicking by Cas9H840A.

Additional delivery options for the brain include encapsulation of CRISPR enzyme and guide RNA in the form of either DNA or RNA into liposomes and conjugating to molecular Trojan horses for trans blood brain barrier BBB delivery. Molecular Trojan horses have been shown to be effective for delivery of B gal expression vectors into the brain of non human primates. The same approach can be used to delivery vectors containing CRISPR enzyme and guide RNA. For instance Xia C F and Boado R J Pardridge W M Antibody mediated targeting of siRNA via the human insulin receptor using avidin biotin technology. Mol Pharm. 2009 May June 6 3 747 51. doi 10.1021 mp800194 describes how delivery of short interfering RNA siRNA to cells in culture and in vivo is possible with combined use of a receptor specific monoclonal antibody mAb and avidin biotin technology. The authors also report that because the bond between the targeting mAb and the siRNA is stable with avidin biotin technology and RNAi effects at distant sites such as brain are observed in vivo following an intravenous administration of the targeted siRNA.

Zhang Y. Schlachetzki F. Pardridge W M. Global non viral gene transfer to the primate brain following intravenous administration. Mol Ther. 2003 January 7 1 11 8. describe how expression plasmids encoding reporters such as luciferase were encapsulated in the interior of an artificial virus comprised of an 85 nm pegylated immunoliposome which was targeted to the rhesus monkey brain in vivo with a monoclonal antibody MAb to the human insulin receptor HIR . The HIRMAb enables the liposome carrying the exogenous gene to undergo transcytosis across the blood brain barrier and endocytosis across the neuronal plasma membrane following intravenous injection. The level of luciferase gene expression in the brain was 50 fold higher in the rhesus monkey as compared to the rat. Widespread neuronal expression of the beta galactosidase gene in primate brain was demonstrated by both histochemistry and confocal microscopy. The authors indicate that this approach makes feasible reversible adult transgenics in 24 hours. Accordingly the use of immunoliposome is preferred. These may be used in conjunction with antibodies to target specific tissues or cell surface proteins.

Other means of delivery or RNA are also preferred such as via nanoparticles Cho S. Goldberg M. Son S. Xu Q. Yang. F. Mei Y. Bogatyrev S. Langer R. and Anderson D. Lipid like nanoparticles for small interfering RNA delivery to endothelial cells Advanced Functional Materials 19 3112 3118 2010 or exosomes Schroeder A. Levins C. Cortez C. Langer R. and Anderson D. Lipid based nanotherapeutics for siRNA delivery Journal of Internal Medicine 267 9 21 2010. PMID 20059641 . Indeed exozomes have been shown to be particularly useful in delivery siRNA a system with some parallels to the CRISPR system. For instance El Andaloussi S et al. Exosome mediated delivery of siRNA in vitro and in vivo. Nat Protoc. 2012 December 7 12 2112 26. doi 10.1038 nprot.2012.131. Epub 2012 Nov. 15. describe how exosomes are promising tools for drug delivery across different biological barriers and can be harnessed for delivery of siRNA in vitro and in vivo. Their approach is to generate targeted exosomes through transfection of an expression vector comprising an exosomal protein fused with a peptide ligand. The exosomes are then purified and characterized from transfected cell supernatant then siRNA is loaded into the exosomes.

One aspect of manipulation of a target sequence also refers to the epigenetic manipulation of a target sequence. This may be of the chromatin state of a target sequence such as by modification of the methylation state of the target sequence i.e. addition or removal of methylation or methylation patterns or CpG islands histone modification increasing or reducing accessibility to the target sequence or by promoting or reducing 3D folding.

A vector may mean not only a viral or yeast system for instance where the nucleic acids of interest may be operably linked to and under the control of in terms of expression such as to ultimately provide a processed RNA a promoter but also direct delivery of nucleic acids into a host cell.

The invention also comprehends in certain embodiments a method of treating or inhibiting a condition caused by a defect in a target sequence in a genomic locus of interest in a subject or a non human subject in need thereof comprising modifying the subject or a non human subject by manipulation of the target sequence and wherein the condition is susceptible to treatment or inhibition by manipulation of the target sequence comprising providing treatment comprising delivering a non naturally occurring or engineered composition comprising a vector system comprising one or more vectors comprising operably encoding a composition herein discussed for expression thereof wherein the target sequence is manipulated by the composition when expressed.

In certain embodiments of the herein methods the methods can include inducing expression which can be inducing expression of the CRISPR enzyme and or inducing expression of the guide tracr or tracr mate sequences. In certain embodiments of the herein methods the organism or subject is a eukaryote or a non human eukaryote. In certain embodiments of the herein methods the organism or subject is a plant. In certain embodiments of the herein methods the organism or subject is a mammal or a non human mammal. In certain embodiments of the herein methods the organism or subject is algae.

While in herein methods the vector may be a viral vector and this is advantageously an AAV other viral vectors as herein discussed can be employed. For example baculoviruses may be used for expression in insect cells. These insect cells may in turn be useful for producing large quantities of further vectors such as AAV vectors adapted for delivery of the present invention.

Also envisaged is a method of delivering the present CRISPR enzyme comprising delivering to a cell mRNA encoding the CRISPR enzyme. It will be appreciated that the CRISPR enzyme is truncated is of a specific size as described herein is a nuclease or nickase or generic DNA binding protein is codon optimized comprises one or more mutations and or comprises a chimeric CRISPR enzyme or the other options as herein discussed.

Also envisaged is a method of preparing an vector for delivery of the compositions or the present CRISPR enzymes of the invention and for use in the present methods.

AAV viral vectors are preferred. Thus in a further aspect there is provided a method of preparing an AAV viral vector comprising transfecting plasmid s containing or consisting essentially of nucleic acid molecule s coding for the AAV into AAV infected cells and supplying AAV rep and or cap obligatory for replication and packaging of the AAV. In this regard it will be appreciated that the CRISPR enzyme is truncated comprised of less than one thousand amino acids or less than four thousand amino acids is a nuclease or nickase is codon optimized comprises one or more mutations and or comprises a chimeric CRISPR enzyme as herein discussed. In some embodiments the AAV rep and or cap obligatory for replication and packaging of the AAV are supplied by transfecting the cells with helper plasmid s or helper virus es . In some embodiments the helper virus is a poxvirus adenovirus herpesvirus or baculovirus. In some embodiments the poxvirus is a vaccinia virus. In some embodiments the cells are mammalian cells. And in some embodiments the cells are insect cells and the helper virus is baculovirus.

The invention further comprehends in certain embodiments a modified CRISPR enzyme. Differences from the wild type CRISPR enzyme can comprise the modified CRISPR enzyme is truncated in comparison to a wild type CRISPR enzyme or the CRISPR enzyme is of a specific size e.g. at least 500 amino acids at least 800 899 amino acids at least 900 999 amino acids at least 1000 1099 amino acids at least 1100 1199 amino acids at least 1200 1299 amino acids at least 1300 1399 amino acids at least 1400 1499 amino acids at least 1500 1599 amino acids at least 1600 1699 amino acids or at least 2000 amino acids and or the CRISPR enzyme is a nuclease directing cleavage of both strands at the location of the target sequence or the CRISPR enzyme is a nickase directing cleavage of one strand at the location of the target sequence or the CRISPR enzyme is a catalytic null mutant that functions as a DNA binding protein and or the CRISPR enzyme is codon optimized or codon optimized for expression in a eukaryotic cell and or the CRISPR enzyme comprises one or more mutations and or the CRISPR enzyme comprises a chimeric CRISPR enzyme and or the CRISPR enzyme has one or more other attributes herein discussed. Accordingly in certain embodiments the CRISPR enzyme comprises one or more mutations in catalytic residues such as spCa9 D10A E762A H840A N854A N863A or D986A or those corresponding to them in other Cas enzymes as described herein with reference to the position numbering of SpCas9 and or has one or more mutations is in a RuvC I RuvC II RuvC III HNH or other domain described herein of the CRISPR enzyme and or the CRISPR enzyme has one or more mutations in a catalytic domain wherein when transcribed a tracr mate sequence hybridizes to a tracr sequence and a guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to a target sequence and wherein the enzyme further comprises a functional domain. The functional domain may include but is not limited to transcriptional activator transcriptional repressor a recombinase a transposase a histone remodeler a DNA methyltransferase a cryptochrome a light inducible controllable domain or a chemically inducible controllable domain. The CRISPR enzyme in certain embodiments can have the functional domain be a transcriptional activator domain e.g. VP64. In some embodiments a transcription repressor domains is KRAB. In some embodiments a transcription repressor domain is SID or concatemers of SID i.e. SID4X . In some embodiments an epigenetic modifying enzyme is provided.

Aspects of the invention also comprehend identifying novel orthologs of CRISPR enzymes. Methods of identifying novel orthologs of CRISPR enzymes may involve identifying tracr sequences in genomes of interest. Identification of tracr sequences may relate to the following steps Search for the direct repeats or tracr mate sequences in a database to identify a CRISPR region comprising a CRISPR enzyme e.g. . Search for homologous sequences in the CRISPR region flanking the CRISPR enzyme in both the sense and antisense directions. Look for transcriptional terminators and secondary structures. Identify any sequence that is not a direct repeat or a tracr mate sequence but has more than 50 identity to the direct repeat ot tracr mate sequence as a potential tracr sequence. Take the potential tracr sequence and analyze for transcriptional terminator sequences associated therewith.

The invention comprehends in certain embodiments use of a composition as described herein or a CRISPR enzyme in medicine. The invention further comprehends in certain embodiments a composition or CRISPR enzyme of the invention used in a method of the invention. The invention also comprehends in certain embodiments use of a composition or a CRISPR enzyme of the invention in preferably ex vivo gene or genome editing or preferably an ex vivo gene or genome editing method. The invention accordingly also comprehends in certain embodiments use of a composition according or a CRISPR enzyme of the invention in the manufacture of a medicament for ex vivo gene or genome editing or for use in a method as herein discussed.

In addition the invention in certain embodiments comprehends a composition or a CRISPR enzyme of the invention wherein the target sequence is flanked or followed at its 3 end by a PAM suitable for the CRISPR enzyme typically a Cas and in particular a Cas9. This PAM sequence is specific for each Cas9 but may be readily determined by methods described herein.

For example a suitable PAM is 5 NRG or 5 NNGRR for SpCas9 or SaCas9 enzymes or derived enzymes respectively. It will be appreciated that reference made herein to preferably includes subspecies

Accordingly it is an object of the invention to not encompass within the invention any previously known product process of making the product or method of using the product such that Applicants reserve the right and hereby disclose a disclaimer of any previously known product process or method. It is further noted that the invention does not intend to encompass within the scope of the invention any product process or making of the product or method of using the product which does not meet the written description and enablement requirements of the USPTO 35 U.S.C. 112 first paragraph or the EPO Article 83 of the EPC such that Applicants reserve the right and hereby disclose a disclaimer of any previously described product process of making the product or method of using the product.

It is noted that in this disclosure and particularly in the claims and or paragraphs terms such as comprises comprised comprising and the like can have the meaning attributed to it in U.S. Patent law e.g. they can mean includes included including and the like and that terms such as consisting essentially of and consists essentially of have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent law e.g. they allow for elements not explicitly recited but exclude elements that are found in the prior art or that affect a basic or novel characteristic of the invention.

These and other embodiments are disclosed or are obvious from and encompassed by the following Detailed Description.

The invention relates to the engineering and optimization of systems methods and compositions used for the control of gene expression involving sequence targeting such as genome perturbation or gene editing that relate to the CRISPR Cas system and components thereof. In advantageous embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is a Cas enzyme e.g. a Cas9 ortholog.

The invention uses nucleic acids to bind target DNA sequences. This is advantageous as nucleic acids are much easier and cheaper to produce than for example peptides and the specificity can be varied according to the length of the stretch where homology is sought. Complex 3 D positioning of multiple fingers for example is not required.

The terms polynucleotide nucleotide nucleotide sequence nucleic acid and oligonucleotide are used interchangeably. They refer to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides or analogs thereof. Polynucleotides may have any three dimensional structure and may perform any function known or unknown. The following are non limiting examples of polynucleotides coding or non coding regions of a gene or gene fragment loci locus defined from linkage analysis exons introns messenger RNA mRNA transfer RNA ribosomal RNA short interfering RNA siRNA short hairpin RNA shRNA micro RNA miRNA ribozymes cDNA recombinant polynucleotides branched polynucleotides plasmids vectors isolated DNA of any sequence isolated RNA of any sequence nucleic acid probes and primers. The term also encompasses nucleic acid like structures with synthetic backbones see e.g. Eckstein 1991 Baserga et al. 1992 Milligan 1993 WO 97 03211 WO 96 39154 Mata 1997 Strauss Soukup 1997 and Samstag 1996. A polynucleotide may comprise one or more modified nucleotides such as methylated nucleotides and nucleotide analogs. If present modifications to the nucleotide structure may be imparted before or after assembly of the polymer. The sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non nucleotide components. A polynucleotide may be further modified after polymerization such as by conjugation with a labeling component.

In aspects of the invention the terms chimeric RNA chimeric guide RNA guide RNA single guide RNA and synthetic guide RNA are used interchangeably and refer to the polynucleotide sequence comprising the guide sequence the tracr sequence and the tracr mate sequence. The term guide sequence refers to the about 20 bp sequence within the guide RNA that specifies the target site and may be used interchangeably with the terms guide or spacer . The term tracr mate sequence may also be used interchangeably with the term direct repeat s .

As used herein the term wild type is a term of the art understood by skilled persons and means the typical form of an organism strain gene or characteristic as it occurs in nature as distinguished from mutant or variant forms.

As used herein the term variant should be taken to mean the exhibition of qualities that have a pattern that deviates from what occurs in nature.

The terms non naturally occurring or engineered are used interchangeably and indicate the involvement of the hand of man. The terms when referring to nucleic acid molecules or polypeptides mean that the nucleic acid molecule or the polypeptide is at least substantially free from at least one other component with which they are naturally associated in nature and as found in nature.

 Complementarity refers to the ability of a nucleic acid to form hydrogen bond s with another nucleic acid sequence by either traditional Watson Crick base pairing or other non traditional types. A percent complementarity indicates the percentage of residues in a nucleic acid molecule which can form hydrogen bonds e.g. Watson Crick base pairing with a second nucleic acid sequence e.g. 5 6 7 8 9 10 out of 10 being 50 60 70 80 90 and 100 complementary . Perfectly complementary means that all the contiguous residues of a nucleic acid sequence will hydrogen bond with the same number of contiguous residues in a second nucleic acid sequence. Substantially complementary as used herein refers to a degree of complementarity that is at least 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 97 98 99 or 100 over a region of 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 30 35 40 45 50 or more nucleotides or refers to two nucleic acids that hybridize under stringent conditions.

As used herein stringent conditions for hybridization refer to conditions under which a nucleic acid having complementarity to a target sequence predominantly hybridizes with the target sequence and substantially does not hybridize to non target sequences. Stringent conditions are generally sequence dependent and vary depending on a number of factors. In general the longer the sequence the higher the temperature at which the sequence specifically hybridizes to its target sequence. Non limiting examples of stringent conditions are described in detail in Tijssen 1993 . Laboratory Techniques In Biochemistry And Molecular Biology Hybridization With Nucleic Acid Probes Part I Second Chapter Overview of principles of hybridization and the strategy of nucleic acid probe assay Elsevier N.Y. Where reference is made to a polynucleotide sequence then complementary or partially complementary sequences are also envisaged. These are preferably capable of hybridising to the reference sequence under highly stringent conditions. Generally in order to maximize the hybridization rate relatively low stringency hybridization conditions are selected about 20 to 25 C. lower than the thermal melting point Tm . The Tm is the temperature at which 50 of specific target sequence hybridizes to a perfectly complementary probe in solution at a defined ionic strength and pH. Generally in order to require at least about 85 nucleotide complementarity of hybridized sequences highly stringent washing conditions are selected to be about 5 to 15 C. lower than the Tm. In order to require at least about 70 nucleotide complementarity of hybridized sequences moderately stringent washing conditions are selected to be about 15 to 30 C. lower than the Tm. Highly permissive very low stringency washing conditions may be as low as 50 C. below the Tm allowing a high level of mis matching between hybridized sequences. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other physical and chemical parameters in the hybridization and wash stages can also be altered to affect the outcome of a detectable hybridization signal from a specific level of homology between target and probe sequences. Preferred highly stringent conditions comprise incubation in 50 formamide 5 SSC and 1 SDS at 42 C. or incubation in 5 SSC and 1 SDS at 65 C. with wash in 0.2 SSC and 0.1 SDS at 65 C.

 Hybridization refers to a reaction in which one or more polynucleotides react to form a complex that is stabilized via hydrogen bonding between the bases of the nucleotide residues. The hydrogen bonding may occur by Watson Crick base pairing Hoogstein binding or in any other sequence specific manner. The complex may comprise two strands forming a duplex structure three or more strands forming a multi stranded complex a single self hybridizing strand or any combination of these. A hybridization reaction may constitute a step in a more extensive process such as the initiation of PCR or the cleavage of a polynucleotide by an enzyme. A sequence capable of hybridizing with a given sequence is referred to as the complement of the given sequence.

As used herein the term genomic locus or locus plural loci is the specific location of a gene or DNA sequence on a chromosome. A gene refers to stretches of DNA or RNA that encode a polypeptide or an RNA chain that has functional role to play in an organism and hence is the molecular unit of heredity in living organisms. For the purpose of this invention it may be considered that genes include regions which regulate the production of the gene product whether or not such regulatory sequences are adjacent to coding and or transcribed sequences. Accordingly a gene includes but is not necessarily limited to promoter sequences terminators translational regulatory sequences such as ribosome binding sites and internal ribosome entry sites enhancers silencers insulators boundary elements replication origins matrix attachment sites and locus control regions.

As used herein expression of a genomic locus or gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. The products of gene expression are often proteins but in non protein coding genes such as rRNA genes or tRNA genes the product is functional RNA. The process of gene expression is used by all known life eukaryotes including multicellular organisms prokaryotes bacteria and archaea and viruses to generate functional products to survive. As used herein expression of a gene or nucleic acid encompasses not only cellular gene expression but also the transcription and translation of nucleic acid s in cloning systems and in any other context. As used herein expression also refers to the process by which a polynucleotide is transcribed from a DNA template such as into and mRNA or other RNA transcript and or the process by which a transcribed mRNA is subsequently translated into peptides polypeptides or proteins. Transcripts and encoded polypeptides may be collectively referred to as gene product. If the polynucleotide is derived from genomic DNA expression may include splicing of the mRNA in a eukaryotic cell.

The terms polypeptide peptide and protein are used interchangeably herein to refer to polymers of amino acids of any length. The polymer may be linear or branched it may comprise modified amino acids and it may be interrupted by non amino acids. The terms also encompass an amino acid polymer that has been modified for example disulfide bond formation glycosylation lipidation acetylation phosphorylation or any other manipulation such as conjugation with a labeling component. As used herein the term amino acid includes natural and or unnatural or synthetic amino acids including glycine and both the D or L optical isomers and amino acid analogs and peptidomimetics.

As used herein the term domain or protein domain refers to a part of a protein sequence that may exist and function independently of the rest of the protein chain.

As described in aspects of the invention sequence identity is related to sequence homology. Homology comparisons may be conducted by eye or more usually with the aid of readily available sequence comparison programs. These commercially available computer programs may calculate percent homology between two or more sequences and may also calculate the sequence identity shared by two or more amino acid or nucleic acid sequences. Sequence homologies may be generated by any of a number of computer programs known in the art for example BLAST or FASTA etc. A suitable computer program for carrying out such an alignment is the GCG Wisconsin Bestfit package University of Wisconsin. U.S.A Devereux et al. 1984 Nucleic Acids Research 12 387 . Examples of other software than may perform sequence comparisons include but are not limited to the BLAST package see Ausubel et al. 1999 ibid Chapter 18 FASTA Atschul et al. 1990 J. Mol. Biol. 403 410 and the GENEWORKS suite of comparison tools. Both BLAST and FASTA are available for offline and online searching see Ausubel et al. 1999 ibid pages 7 58 to 7 60 . However it is preferred to use the GCG Bestfit program.

 homology may be calculated over contiguous sequences i.e. one sequence is aligned with the other sequence and each amino acid or nucleotide in one sequence is directly compared with the corresponding amino acid or nucleotide in the other sequence one residue at a time. This is called an ungapped alignment. Typically such ungapped alignments are performed only over a relatively short number of residues.

Although this is a very simple and consistent method it fails to take into consideration that for example in an otherwise identical pair of sequences one insertion or deletion may cause the following amino acid residues to be put out of alignment thus potentially resulting in a large reduction in homology when a global alignment is performed. Consequently most sequence comparison methods are designed to produce optimal alignments that take into consideration possible insertions and deletions without unduly penalizing the overall homology or identity score. This is achieved by inserting gaps in the sequence alignment to try to maximize local homology or identity.

However these more complex methods assign gap penalties to each gap that occurs in the alignment so that for the same number of identical amino acids a sequence alignment with as few gaps as possible reflecting higher relatedness between the two compared sequences may achieve a higher score than one with many gaps. Affinity gap costs are typically used that charge a relatively high cost for the existence of a gap and a smaller penalty for each subsequent residue in the gap. This is the most commonly used gap scoring system. High gap penalties may of course produce optimized alignments with fewer gaps. Most alignment programs allow the gap penalties to be modified. However it is preferred to use the default values when using such software for sequence comparisons. For example when using the GCG Wisconsin Bestfit package the default gap penalty for amino acid sequences is 12 for a gap and 4 for each extension.

Calculation of maximum homology therefore first requires the production of an optimal alignment taking into consideration gap penalties. A suitable computer program for carrying out such an alignment is the GCG Wisconsin Bestfit package Devereux et al. 1984 Nuc. Acids Research 12 p387 . Examples of other software that may perform sequence comparisons include but are not limited to the BLAST package see Ausubel et al. 1999 Short Protocols in Molecular Biology 4th Ed. Chapter 18 FASTA Altschul et al. 1990 J. Mol. Biol. 403 410 and the GENEWORKS suite of comparison tools. Both BLAST and FASTA are available for offline and online searching see Ausubel et al. 1999 Short Protocols in Molecular Biology pages 7 58 to 7 60 . However for some applications it is preferred to use the GCG Bestfit program. A new tool called BLAST 2 Sequences is also available for comparing protein and nucleotide sequences see FEMS Microbiol Lett. 1999 174 2 247 50 FEMS Microbiol Lett. 1999 177 1 187 8 and the website of the National Center for Biotechnology information at the website of the National Institutes for Health .

Although the final homology may be measured in terms of identity the alignment process itself is typically not based on an all or nothing pair comparison. Instead a scaled similarity score matrix is generally used that assigns scores to each pair wise comparison based on chemical similarity or evolutionary distance. An example of such a matrix commonly used is the BLOSUM62 matrix the default matrix for the BLAST suite of programs. GCG Wisconsin programs generally use either the public default values or a custom symbol comparison table if supplied see user manual for further details . For some applications it is preferred to use the public default values for the GCG package or in the case of other software the default matrix such as BLOSUM62.

Alternatively percentage homologies may be calculated using the multiple alignment feature in DNASIS Hitachi Software based on an algorithm analogous to CLUSTAL Higgins D G Sharp P M 1988 Gene 73 1 237 244 . Once the software has produced an optimal alignment it is possible to calculate homology preferably sequence identity. The software typically does this as part of the sequence comparison and generates a numerical result.

The sequences may also have deletions insertions or substitutions of amino acid residues which produce a silent change and result in a functionally equivalent substance. Deliberate amino acid substitutions may be made on the basis of similarity in amino acid properties such as polarity charge solubility hydrophobicity hydrophilicity and or the amphipathic nature of the residues and it is therefore useful to group amino acids together in functional groups. Amino acids may be grouped together based on the properties of their side chains alone. However it is more useful to include mutation data as well. The sets of amino acids thus derived are likely to be conserved for structural reasons. These sets may be described in the form of a Venn diagram Livingstone C. D. and Barton G. J. 1993 Protein sequence alignments a strategy for the hierarchical analysis of residue conservation Comput. Appl. Biosci. 9 745 756 Taylor W. R. 1986 The classification of amino acid conservation J. Theor. Biol. 119 205 218 . Conservative substitutions may be made for example according to the table below which describes a generally accepted Venn diagram grouping of amino acids.

Embodiments of the invention include sequences both polynucleotide or polypeptide which may comprise homologous substitution substitution and replacement are both used herein to mean the interchange of an existing amino acid residue or nucleotide with an alternative residue or nucleotide that may occur i.e. like for like substitution in the case of amino acids such as basic for basic acidic for acidic polar for polar etc. Non homologous substitution may also occur i.e. from one class of residue to another or alternatively involving the inclusion of unnatural amino acids such as ornithine hereinafter referred to as Z diaminobutyric acid ornithine hereinafter referred to as B norleucine ornithine hereinafter referred to as O pyridylalanine thienylalanine naphthylalanine and phenylglycine.

Variant amino acid sequences may include suitable spacer groups that may be inserted between any two amino acid residues of the sequence including alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl or propyl groups in addition to amino acid spacers such as glycine or alanine residues. A further form of variation which involves the presence of one or more amino acid residues in peptoid form may be well understood by those skilled in the art. For the avoidance of doubt the peptoid form is used to refer to variant amino acid residues wherein the carbon substituent group is on the residue s nitrogen atom rather than the carbon. Processes for preparing peptides in the peptoid form are known in the art for example Simon R J et al. PNAS 1992 89 20 9367 9371 and Horwell D C Trends Biotechnol. 1995 13 4 132 134.

The practice of the present invention employs unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of immunology biochemistry chemistry molecular biology microbiology cell biology genomics and recombinant DNA which are within the skill of the art. See Sambrook Fritsch and Maniatis MOLECULAR CLONING A LABORATORY MANUAL 2nd edition 1989 CURRENT PROTOCOLS IN MOLECULAR BIOLOGY F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. 1987 the series METHODS IN ENZYMOLOGY Academic Press Inc. PCR 2 A PRACTICAL APPROACH M. J. MacPherson B. D. Hames and G. R. Taylor eds. 1995 Harlow and Lane eds. 1988 ANTIBODIES A LABORATORY MANUAL and ANIMAL CELL CULTURE R. I. Freshney ed. 1987 .

In one aspect the invention provides for vectors that are used in the engineering and optimization of CRISPR Cas systems.

As used herein a vector is a tool that allows or facilitates the transfer of an entity from one environment to another. It is a replicon such as a plasmid phage or cosmid into which another DNA segment may be inserted so as to bring about the replication of the inserted segment. Generally a vector is capable of replication when associated with the proper control elements. In general the term vector refers to a nucleic acid molecule capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. Vectors include but are not limited to nucleic acid molecules that are single stranded double stranded or partially double stranded nucleic acid molecules that comprise one or more free ends no free ends e.g. circular nucleic acid molecules that comprise DNA RNA or both and other varieties of polynucleotides known in the art. One type of vector is a plasmid which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which additional DNA segments can be inserted such as by standard molecular cloning techniques. Another type of vector is a viral vector wherein virally derived DNA or RNA sequences are present in the vector for packaging into a virus e.g. retroviruses replication defective retroviruses adenoviruses replication defective adenoviruses and adeno associated viruses . Viral vectors also include polynucleotides carried by a virus for transfection into a host cell. Certain vectors are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced e.g. bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian vectors . Other vectors e.g. non episomal mammalian vectors are integrated into the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell and thereby are replicated along with the host genome. Moreover certain vectors are capable of directing the expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to herein as expression vectors. Common expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the form of plasmids. Further discussion of vectors is provided herein.

Recombinant expression vectors can comprise a nucleic acid of the invention in a form suitable for expression of the nucleic acid in a host cell which means that the recombinant expression vectors include one or more regulatory elements which may be selected on the basis of the host cells to be used for expression that is operatively linked to the nucleic acid sequence to be expressed. Within a recombinant expression vector operably linked is intended to mean that the nucleotide sequence of interest is linked to the regulatory element s in a manner that allows for expression of the nucleotide sequence e.g. in an in vitro transcription translation system or in a host cell when the vector is introduced into the host cell . With regards to recombination and cloning methods mention is made of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 815 730 published Sep. 2 2004 as US 2004 0171156 A1 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Aspects and embodiments of the invention relate to bicistronic vectors for chimeric RNA and Cas9 or a Cas9 ortholog. In some embodiments the Cas9 is driven by the CBh promoter. In some embodiments the chimeric RNA is driven by a U6 promoter. Preferably the CBh and U6 are used together in the sense that the Cas9 is driven by the CBh promoter and the chimeric RNA is driven by a U6 promoter. In some embodiments the chimeric guide RNA consists of a 20 bp guide sequence Ns joined to the tracr sequence running from the first U of the lower strand to the end of the transcript which is truncated at various positions as indicated. The guide and tracr sequences are preferably separated by the tracr mate sequence. A preferred example of a tracr mate sequence is GUUUUAGAGCUA SEQ ID NO 58 . This is preferably followed by a loop sequence. The loop is preferably GAAA but it is not limited to this sequence or indeed to being only 4 bp in length. Indeed preferred loop forming sequences for use in hairpin structures are four nucleotides in length and most preferably have the sequence GAAA. However longer or shorter loop sequences may be used as may alternative sequences. The sequences preferably include a nucleotide triplet for example AAA and an additional nucleotide for example C or G . Examples of loop forming sequences include CAAA and AAAG. Throughout this application chimeric RNA may also be called single guide or synthetic guide RNA sgRNA .

For instance as described in specific detail in Example 2 chimeric guide RNAs may be designed as shown in . The CRISPR loci in some of these families is depicted in . The corresponding guide RNA sequences are shown in . We analyzed the genomic DNA sequence within 2 kb of the Cas9 proteins and identified direct repeats ranging from 35 bp to 50 bp with intervening spacers ranging from 29 bp to 35 bp. Based on the direct repeat sequence we searched for tracrRNA candidate sequences with the following criteria outside the crRNA array but containing high degree of homology to direct repeats as required for direct repeat tracrRNA base pairing custom computational analysis outside the coding regions of the protein components containing Rho independent transcriptional termination signals 60 bp 120 bp downstream from region of homology from with direct repeats and co folding with direct repeat to form a duplex followed by two or more hairpin structures in the distal end of tracrRNA sequence. Based on these prediction criteria we selected an initial set of 18 Cas9 proteins and their uniquely associated direct repeats and tracrRNAs distributed across all five Cas9 families. Applicants further generated a set of 18 chimeric RNA structures that preserved the sequence and secondary structures of the native direct repeat tracrRNA duplex while shortening the region of base pairing and fusing the two RNA elements through an artificial loop A J .

The term regulatory element is intended to include promoters enhancers internal ribosomal entry sites IRES and other expression control elements e.g. transcription termination signals such as polyadenylation signals and poly U sequences . Such regulatory elements are described for example in Goeddel GENE EXPRESSION TECHNOLOGY METHODS IN ENZYMOLOGY 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . Regulatory elements include those that direct constitutive expression of a nucleotide sequence in many types of host cell and those that direct expression of the nucleotide sequence only in certain host cells e.g. tissue specific regulatory sequences . A tissue specific promoter may direct expression primarily in a desired tissue of interest such as muscle neuron bone skin blood specific organs e.g. liver pancreas or particular cell types e.g. lymphocytes . Regulatory elements may also direct expression in a temporal dependent manner such as in a cell cycle dependent or developmental stage dependent manner which may or may not also be tissue or cell type specific. In some embodiments a vector comprises one or more pol III promoter e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or more pol III promoters one or more pol II promoters e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or more pol II promoters one or more pol I promoters e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 or more pol I promoters or combinations thereof. Examples of pol III promoters include but are not limited to U6 and H1 promoters. Examples of pol II promoters include but are not limited to the retroviral Rous sarcoma virus RSV LTR promoter optionally with the RSV enhancer the cytomegalovirus CMV promoter optionally with the CMV enhancer see e.g. Boshart et al Cell 41 521 530 1985 the SV40 promoter the dihydrofolate reductase promoter the actin promoter the phosphoglycerol kinase PGK promoter and the EF1 promoter. Also encompassed by the term regulatory element are enhancer elements such as WPRE CMV enhancers the R U5 segment in LTR of HTLV I Mol. Cell. Biol. Vol. 8 1 p. 466 472 1988 SV40 enhancer and the intron sequence between exons 2 and 3 of rabbit globin Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. Vol. 78 3 p. 1527 31 1981 . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the expression vector can depend on such factors as the choice of the host cell to be transformed the level of expression desired etc. A vector can be introduced into host cells to thereby produce transcripts proteins or peptides including fusion proteins or peptides encoded by nucleic acids as described herein e.g. clustered regularly interspersed short palindromic repeats CRISPR transcripts proteins enzymes mutant forms thereof fusion proteins thereof etc. . With regards to regulatory sequences mention is made of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 491 026 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. With regards to promoters mention is made of PCT publication WO 2011 028929 and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 511 940 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Vectors can be designed for expression of CRISPR transcripts e.g. nucleic acid transcripts proteins or enzymes in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. For example CRISPR transcripts can be expressed in bacterial cells such as insect cells using baculovirus expression vectors yeast cells or mammalian cells. Suitable host cells are discussed further in Goeddel GENE EXPRESSION TECHNOLOGY METHODS IN ENZYMOLOGY 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . Alternatively the recombinant expression vector can be transcribed and translated in vitro for example using T7 promoter regulatory sequences and T7 polymerase.

Vectors may be introduced and propagated in a prokaryote or prokaryotic cell. In some embodiments a prokaryote is used to amplify copies of a vector to be introduced into a eukaryotic cell or as an intermediate vector in the production of a vector to be introduced into a eukaryotic cell e.g. amplifying a plasmid as part of a viral vector packaging system . In some embodiments a prokaryote is used to amplify copies of a vector and express one or more nucleic acids such as to provide a source of one or more proteins for delivery to a host cell or host organism. Expression of proteins in prokaryotes is most often carried out in with vectors containing constitutive or inducible promoters directing the expression of either fusion or non fusion proteins. Fusion vectors add a number of amino acids to a protein encoded therein such as to the amino terminus of the recombinant protein. Such fusion vectors may serve one or more purposes such as i to increase expression of recombinant protein ii to increase the solubility of the recombinant protein and iii to aid in the purification of the recombinant protein by acting as a ligand in affinity purification. Often in fusion expression vectors a proteolytic cleavage site is introduced at the junction of the fusion moiety and the recombinant protein to enable separation of the recombinant protein from the fusion moiety subsequent to purification of the fusion protein. Such enzymes and their cognate recognition sequences include Factor Xa thrombin and enterokinase. Example fusion expression vectors include pGEX Pharmacia Biotech Inc Smith and Johnson 1988. Gene 67 31 40 pMAL New England Biolabs Beverly Mass. and pRIT5 Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. that fuse glutathione S transferase GST maltose E binding protein or protein A respectively to the target recombinant protein.

Examples of suitable inducible non fusion expression vectors include pTrc Amrann et al. 1988 Gene 69 301 315 and pET 11d Studier et al. GENE EXPRESSION TECHNOLOGY METHODS IN ENZYMOLOGY 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 60 89 .

In some embodiments a vector is a yeast expression vector. Examples of vectors for expression in yeast include pYepSec1 Baldari et al. 1987. EMBO J. 6 229 234 pMFa Kuijan and Herskowitz 1982. Cell 30 933 943 pJRY88 Schultz et al. 1987. Gene 54 113 123 pYES2 Invitrogen Corporation San Diego Calif. and picZ InVitrogen Corp San Diego Calif. .

In some embodiments a vector drives protein expression in insect cells using baculovirus expression vectors. Baculovirus vectors available for expression of proteins in cultured insect cells e.g. SF9 cells include the pAc series Smith et al. 1983. Mol. Cell. Biol. 3 2156 2165 and the pVL series Lucklow and Summers 1989. Virology 170 31 39 .

In some embodiments a vector is capable of driving expression of one or more sequences in mammalian cells using a mammalian expression vector. Examples of mammalian expression vectors include pCDM8 Seed 1987. Nature 329 840 and pMT2PC Kaufman et al. 1987. EMBO J. 6 187 195 . When used in mammalian cells the expression vector s control functions are typically provided by one or more regulatory elements. For example commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma adenovirus 2 cytomegalovirus simian virus 40 and others disclosed herein and known in the art. For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells see e.g. Chapters 16 and 17 of Sambrook et al. MOLECULAR CLONING A LABORATORY MANUAL. 2nd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989.

In some embodiments the recombinant mammalian expression vector is capable of directing expression of the nucleic acid preferentially in a particular cell type e.g. tissue specific regulatory elements are used to express the nucleic acid . Tissue specific regulatory elements are known in the art. Non limiting examples of suitable tissue specific promoters include the albumin promoter liver specific Pinkert et al. 1987. Genes Dev. 1 268 277 lymphoid specific promoters Calame and Eaton 1988. Adv. Immunol. 43 235 275 in particular promoters of T cell receptors Winoto and Baltimore 1989. EMBO J. 8 729 733 and immunoglobulins Baneiji et al. 1983. Cell 33 729 740 Queen and Baltimore 1983. Cell 33 741 748 neuron specific promoters e.g. the neurofilament promoter Byrne and Ruddle 1989. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 5473 5477 pancreas specific promoters Edlund et al. 1985. Science 230 912 916 and mammary gland specific promoters e.g. milk whey promoter U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 316 and European Application Publication No. 264 166 . Developmentally regulated promoters are also encompassed e.g. the murine hox promoters Kessel and Gruss 1990. Science 249 374 379 and the fetoprotein promoter Campes and Tilghman 1989. Genes Dev. 3 537 546 . With regards to these prokaryotic and eukaryotic vectors mention is made of U.S. Pat. No. 6 750 059 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Other embodiments of the invention may relate to the use of viral vectors with regards to which mention is made of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 092 085 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Tissue specific regulatory elements are known in the art and in this regard mention is made of U.S. Pat. No. 7 776 321 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In some embodiments a regulatory element is operably linked to one or more elements of a CRISPR system so as to drive expression of the one or more elements of the CRISPR system. In general CRISPRs Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats also known as SPIDRs SPacer Interspersed Direct Repeats constitute a family of DNA loci that are usually specific to a particular bacterial species. The CRISPR locus comprises a distinct class of interspersed short sequence repeats SSRs that were recognized in Ishino et al. J. Bacteriol. 169 5429 5433 1987 and Nakata et al. J. Bacteriol. 171 3553 3556 1989 and associated genes. Similar interspersed SSRs have been identified in and See Groenen et al. Mol. Microbiol. 10 1057 1065 1993 Hoe et al. Emerg. Infect. Dis. 5 254 263 1999 Masepohl et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1307 26 30 1996 and Mojica et al. Mol. Microbiol. 17 85 93 1995 . The CRISPR loci typically differ from other SSRs by the structure of the repeats which have been termed short regularly spaced repeats SRSRs Janssen et al. OMICS J. Integ. Biol. 6 23 33 2002 and Mojica et al. Mol. Microbiol. 36 244 246 2000 . In general the repeats are short elements that occur in clusters that are regularly spaced by unique intervening sequences with a substantially constant length Mojica et al. 2000 supra . Although the repeat sequences are highly conserved between strains the number of interspersed repeats and the sequences of the spacer regions typically differ from strain to strain van Embden et al. J. Bacteriol. 182 2393 2401 2000 . CRISPR loci have been identified in more than 40 prokaryotes See e.g. Jansen et al. Mol. Microbiol. 43 1565 1575 2002 and Mojica et al. 2005 including but not limited to and

In general CRISPR system refers collectively to transcripts and other elements involved in the expression of or directing the activity of CRISPR associated Cas genes including sequences encoding a Cas gene a tracr trans activating CRISPR sequence e.g. tracrRNA or an active partial tracrRNA a tracr mate sequence encompassing a direct repeat and a tracrRNA processed partial direct repeat in the context of an endogenous CRISPR system a guide sequence also referred to as a spacer in the context of an endogenous CRISPR system or other sequences and transcripts from a CRISPR locus. In some embodiments one or more elements of a CRISPR system is derived from a type I type II or type III CRISPR system. In some embodiments one or more elements of a CRISPR system is derived from a particular organism comprising an endogenous CRISPR system such as . In general a CRISPR system is characterized by elements that promote the formation of a CRISPR complex at the site of a target sequence also referred to as a protospacer in the context of an endogenous CRISPR system . In the context of formation of a CRISPR complex target sequence refers to a sequence to which a guide sequence is designed to have complementarity where hybridization between a target sequence and a guide sequence promotes the formation of a CRISPR complex. A target sequence may comprise any polynucleotide such as DNA or RNA polynucleotides. In some embodiments a target sequence is located in the nucleus or cytoplasm of a cell.

In preferred embodiments of the invention the CRISPR system is a type II CRISPR system and the Cas enzyme is Cas9 which catalyzes DNA cleavage. Enzymatic action by Cas9 derived from or any closely related Cas9 generates double stranded breaks at target site sequences which hybridize to 20 nucleotides of the guide sequence and that have a protospacer adjacent motif PAM sequence NGG NRG for example as discussed elsewhere a suitable PAM is 5 NRG or 5 NNGRR for SpCas9 or SaCas9 enzymes or derived enzymes respectively following the 20 nucleotides of the target sequence. CRISPR activity through Cas9 for site specific DNA recognition and cleavage is defined by the guide sequence the tracr sequence that hybridizes in part to the guide sequence and the PAM sequence. More aspects of the CRISPR system are described in Karginov and Hannon The CRISPR system small RNA guided defense in bacteria and archae Mole Cell 2010 Jan. 15 37 1 7.

The type II CRISPR locus from SF370 contains a cluster of four genes Cas9 Cas1 Cas2 and Csn1 as well as two non coding RNA elements tracrRNA and a characteristic array of repetitive sequences direct repeats interspaced by short stretches of non repetitive sequences spacers about 30 bp each . In this system targeted DNA double strand break DSB is generated in four sequential steps . First two non coding RNAs the pre crRNA array and tracrRNA are transcribed from the CRISPR locus. Second tracrRNA hybridizes to the direct repeats of pre crRNA which is then processed into mature crRNAs containing individual spacer sequences. Third the mature crRNA tracrRNA complex directs Cas9 to the DNA target consisting of the protospacer and the corresponding PAM via heteroduplex formation between the spacer region of the crRNA and the protospacer DNA. Finally Cas9 mediates cleavage of target DNA upstream of PAM to create a DSB within the protospacer . demonstrates the nuclear localization of the codon optimized Cas9. To promote precise transcriptional initiation the RNA polymerase III based U6 promoter was selected to drive the expression of tracrRNA . Similarly a U6 promoter based construct was developed to express a pre crRNA array consisting of a single spacer flanked by two direct repeats DRs also encompassed by the term tracr mate sequences . The initial spacer was designed to target a 33 base pair bp target site 30 bp protospacer plus a 3 bp CRISPR motif PAM sequence satisfying the NGG recognition motif of Cas9 in the human EMX1 locus a key gene in the development of the cerebral cortex.

In some embodiments direct repeats or tracr mate sequences are either downloaded from the CRISPRs database or identified in silico by searching for repetitive motifs that are 1. found in a 2 kb window of genomic sequence flanking the type II CRISPR locus 2. span from 20 to 50 bp and 3. interspaced by 20 to 50 bp. In some embodiments 2 of these criteria may be used for instance 1 and 2 2 and 3 or 1 and 3. In some embodiments all 3 criteria may be used.

In some embodiments candidate tracrRNA are subsequently predicted by 1. sequence homology to direct repeats motif search in Geneious with up to 18 bp mismatches 2. presence of a predicted Rho independent transcriptional terminator in direction of transcription and 3. stable hairpin secondary structure between tracrRNA and direct repeat. In some embodiments 2 of these criteria may be used for instance 1 and 2 2 and 3 or 1 and 3. In some embodiments all 3 criteria may be used. In some embodiments chimeric synthetic guide RNAs sgRNAs designs incorporate at least 8 bp of duplex structure between the direct repeat and tracrRNA.

Several aspects of the CRISPR system can be further improved to increase the efficiency and versatility of CRISPR targeting. Optimal Cas9 activity may depend on the availability of free Mg2 at levels higher than that present in the mammalian nucleus see e.g. Jinek et al. 2012 Science 337 816 and the preference for an NGG NRG motif immediately downstream of the protospacer restricts the ability to target on average every 12 bp in the human genome.

Typically in the context of an endogenous CRISPR system formation of a CRISPR complex comprising a guide sequence hybridized to a target sequence and complexed with one or more Cas proteins results in cleavage of one or both strands in or near e.g. within 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 50 or more base pairs from the target sequence. Without wishing to be bound by theory the tracr sequence which may comprise or consist of all or a portion of a wild type tracr sequence e.g. about or more than about 20 26 32 45 48 54 63 67 85 or more nucleotides of a wild type tracr sequence may also form part of a CRISPR complex such as by hybridization along at least a portion of the tracr sequence to all or a portion of a tracr mate sequence that is operably linked to the guide sequence. In some embodiments one or more vectors driving expression of one or more elements of a CRISPR system are introduced into a host cell such that expression of the elements of the CRISPR system direct formation of a CRISPR complex at one or more target sites. For example a Cas enzyme a guide sequence linked to a tracr mate sequence and a tracr sequence could each be operably linked to separate regulatory elements on separate vectors. Alternatively two or more of the elements expressed from the same or different regulatory elements may be combined in a single vector with one or more additional vectors providing any components of the CRISPR system not included in the first vector. CRISPR system elements that are combined in a single vector may be arranged in any suitable orientation such as one element located 5 with respect to upstream of or 3 with respect to downstream of a second element. The coding sequence of one element may be located on the same or opposite strand of the coding sequence of a second element and oriented in the same or opposite direction. In some embodiments a single promoter drives expression of a transcript encoding a CRISPR enzyme and one or more of the guide sequence tracr mate sequence optionally operably linked to the guide sequence and a tracr sequence embedded within one or more intron sequences e.g. each in a different intron two or more in at least one intron or all in a single intron . In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme guide sequence tracr mate sequence and tracr sequence are operably linked to and expressed from the same promoter.

In some embodiments a vector comprises one or more insertion sites such as a restriction endonuclease recognition sequence also referred to as a cloning site . In some embodiments one or more insertion sites e.g. about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more insertion sites are located upstream and or downstream of one or more sequence elements of one or more vectors. In some embodiments a vector comprises an insertion site upstream of a tracr mate sequence and optionally downstream of a regulatory element operably linked to the tracr mate sequence such that following insertion of a guide sequence into the insertion site and upon expression the guide sequence directs sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to a target sequence in a eukaryotic cell. In some embodiments a vector comprises two or more insertion sites each insertion site being located between two tracr mate sequences so as to allow insertion of a guide sequence at each site. In such an arrangement the two or more guide sequences may comprise two or more copies of a single guide sequence two or more different guide sequences or combinations of these. When multiple different guide sequences are used a single expression construct may be used to target CRISPR activity to multiple different corresponding target sequences within a cell. For example a single vector may comprise about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 or more guide sequences. In some embodiments about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more such guide sequence containing vectors may be provided and optionally delivered to a cell.

In some embodiments a vector comprises a regulatory element operably linked to an enzyme coding sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme such as a Cas protein. Non limiting examples of Cas proteins include Cas1 Cas1B Cas2 Cas3 Cas4 Cas5 Cas6 Cas7 Cas8 Cas9 also known as Csn1 and Csx12 Cas10 Csy1 Csy2 Csy3 Cse1 Cse2 Csc1 Csc2 Csa5 Csn2 Csm2 Csm3 Csm4 Csm5 Csm6 Cmr1 Cmr3 Cmr4 Cmr5 Cmr6 Csb1 Csb2 Csb3 Csx17 Csx14 Csx100 Csx16 CsaX Csx3 Csx1 Csx15 Csf1 Csf2 Csf3 Csf4 homologues thereof or modified versions thereof. In some embodiments the unmodified CRISPR enzyme has DNA cleavage activity such as Cas9. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme directs cleavage of one or both strands at the location of a target sequence such as within the target sequence and or within the complement of the target sequence. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme directs cleavage of one or both strands within about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 50 100 200 500 or more base pairs from the first or last nucleotide of a target sequence. In some embodiments a vector encodes a CRISPR enzyme that is mutated with respect to a corresponding wild type enzyme such that the mutated CRISPR enzyme lacks the ability to cleave one or both strands of a target polynucleotide containing a target sequence. For example an aspartate to alanine substitution D10A in the RuvC I catalytic domain of Cas9 from converts Cas9 from a nuclease that cleaves both strands to a nickase cleaves a single strand . Other examples of mutations that render Cas9a nickase include without limitation. H840A N854A and N863A in SpCas9. As discussed herein corresponding positions may be conserved in other Cas9s i.e. in Cas9 orthologs from or derived from other bacterial species with reference to the position numbering of SpCas9. shows a multiple sequence alignment of 12 Cas9 orthologs and indicates the conserved catalytic Asp residue in the RuvC I domain and the conserved catalytic His residue in the HNH domain. Mutation of one or the other residue into Ala may convert the Cas9 ortholog into a nickase. Mutation of both residues may convert the Cas9 ortholog into a catalytically null mutant useful for generic DNA binding. As a further example two or more catalytic domains of Cas9 RuvC I RuvC II and RuvC III or the HNH domain may be mutated to produce a mutated Cas9 ortholog substantially lacking all DNA cleavage activity. In some embodiments a D10A mutation is combined with one or more of H840A N854A or N863A mutations to produce a Cas9 enzyme substantially lacking all DNA cleavage activity. In some embodiments a CRISPR enzyme is considered to substantially lack all DNA cleavage activity when the DNA cleavage activity of the mutated enzyme is less than about 25 10 5 1 0.1 0.01 or lower with respect to its non mutated form.

An aspartate to alanine substitution D10A in the RuvC I catalytic domain of SpCas9 was engineered to convert the nuclease into a nickase see e.g. Sapranauskas et al. 2011 Nucleic Acis Research 39 9275 Gasiunas et al. 2012 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 109 E2579 such that nicked genomic DNA undergoes the high fidelity homology directed repair HDR . Applicants used SURVEYOR assay to confirm that SpCas9n does not generate indels at the EMX1 protospacer target. It was seen that co expression of EMX1 targeting chimeric crRNA having the tracrRNA component as well with SpCas9 produced indels in the target site whereas co expression with SpCas9n did not n 3 . Moreover sequencing of 327 amplicons did not detect any indels induced by SpCas9n. The same locus was selected to test CRISPR mediated HR by co transfecting HEK 293FT cells with the chimeric RNA targeting EMX1 hSpCas9 or hSpCas9n as well as a HR template to introduce a pair of restriction sites HindIII and NheI near the protospacer. SpCas9 and SpCas9n indeed catalyzed integration of the HR template into the EMX1 locus. PCR amplification of the target region followed by restriction digest with HindIII revealed cleavage products corresponding to expected fragment sizes with SpCas9 and SpCas9n mediating similar levels of HR efficiencies. Applicants further verified HR using Sanger sequencing of genomic amplicons and demonstrated the utility of CRISPR for facilitating targeted gene insertion in the mammalian genome. Given the 14 bp 12 bp from the spacer and 2 bp from the PAM target specificity of the wild type SpCas9 the availability of a nickase can significantly reduce the likelihood of off target modifications since single strand breaks are not substrates for the error prone NHEJ pathway. provides a scheme indicating positions of mutations in SpCas9 and Cas9 orthologs typically share the general organization of 3 4 RuvC domains and a HNH domain. The 5 most RuvC domain cleaves the non complementary strand and the HNH domain cleaves the complementary strand.

The catalytic residue in the 5 RuvC domain is identified through homology comparison of the Cas9 of interest with other Cas9 orthologs from type II CRISPR locus CRISPR locus 1 CRISPR locus 3 and type II CRISPR locus and the conserved Asp residue is mutated to alanine to convert Cas9 into a complementary strand nicking enzyme. Similarly the conserved His and Asn residues in the HNH domains are mutated to Alanine to convert Cas9 into a non complementary strand nicking enzyme.

In some embodiments an enzyme coding sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme is codon optimized for expression in particular cells such as eukaryotic cells. The eukaryotic cells may be those of or derived from a particular organism such as a mammal including but not limited to human mouse rat rabbit dog or non human mammal including non human primate. In some embodiments processes for modifying the germ line genetic identity of human beings and or processes for modifying the genetic identity of animals which are likely to cause them suffering without any substantial medical benefit to man or animal and also animals resulting from such processes may be excluded.

In general codon optimization refers to a process of modifying a nucleic acid sequence for enhanced expression in the host cells of interest by replacing at least one codon e.g. about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 20 25 50 or more codons of the native sequence with codons that are more frequently or most frequently used in the genes of that host cell while maintaining the native amino acid sequence. Various species exhibit particular bias for certain codons of a particular amino acid. Codon bias differences in codon usage between organisms often correlates with the efficiency of translation of messenger RNA mRNA which is in turn believed to be dependent on among other things the properties of the codons being translated and the availability of particular transfer RNA tRNA molecules. The predominance of selected tRNAs in a cell is generally a reflection of the codons used most frequently in peptide synthesis. Accordingly genes can be tailored for optimal gene expression in a given organism based on codon optimization. Codon usage tables are readily available for example at the Codon Usage Database available at www.kazusa.orjp codon visited Jul. 9 2002 and these tables can be adapted in a number of ways. See Nakamura Y. et al. Codon usage tabulated from the international DNA sequence databases status for the year 2000 Nucl. Acids Res. 28 292 2000 . Computer algorithms for codon optimizing a particular sequence for expression in a particular host cell are also available such as Gene Forge Aptagen Jacobus Pa. are also available. In some embodiments one or more codons e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 20 25 50 or more or all codons in a sequence encoding a CRISPR enzyme correspond to the most frequently used codon for a particular amino acid.

In some embodiments a vector encodes a CRISPR enzyme comprising one or more nuclear localization sequences NLSs such as about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more NLSs. In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme comprises about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more NLSs at or near the amino terminus about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more NLSs at or near the carboxy terminus or a combination of these e.g. one or more NLS at the amino terminus and one or more NLS at the carboxy terminus . When more than one NLS is present each may be selected independently of the others such that a single NLS may be present in more than one copy and or in combination with one or more other NLSs present in one or more copies. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the CRISPR enzyme comprises at most 6 NLSs. In some embodiments an NLS is considered near the N or C terminus when the nearest amino acid of the NLS is within about 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 or more amino acids along the polypeptide chain from the N or C terminus. Non limiting examples of NLSs include an NLS sequence derived from the NLS of the SV40 virus large T antigen having the amino acid sequence PKKKRKV SEQ ID NO 59 the NLS from nucleoplasmin e.g. the nucleoplasmin bipartite NLS with the sequence KRPAATKKAGQAKKKK SEQ ID NO 60 the c myc NLS having the amino acid sequence PAAKRVKLD SEQ ID NO 61 or RQRRNELKRSP SEQ ID NO 62 the hRNPA1 M9 NLS having the sequence NQSSNFGPMKGGNFGGRSSGPYGGGGQYFAKPRNQGGY SEQ ID NO 63 the sequence RMRIZFKNKGKDTAELRRRRVEVSVELRKAKKDEQILKRRNV SEQ ID NO 64 of the IBB domain from importin alpha the sequences VSRKRPRP SEQ ID NO 65 and PPKKARED SEQ ID NO 66 of the myoma T protein the sequence PQPKKKPL SEQ ID NO 67 of human p53 the sequence SALIKKKKKMAP SEQ ID NO 68 of mouse c abl IV the sequences DRLRR SEQ ID NO 69 and PKQKKRK SEQ ID NO 70 of the influenza virus NS1 the sequence RKLKKKIKKL SEQ ID NO 71 of the Hepatitis virus delta antigen the sequence REKKKFLKRR SEQ ID NO 72 of the mouse Mx1 protein the sequence KRKGDEVDGVDEVAKKKSKK SEQ ID NO 73 of the human poly ADP ribose polymerase and the sequence RKCLQAGMNLEARKTKK SEQ ID NO 74 of the steroid hormone receptors human glucocorticoid.

In general the one or more NLSs are of sufficient strength to drive accumulation of the CRISPR enzyme in a detectable amount in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. In general strength of nuclear localization activity may derive from the number of NLSs in the CRISPR enzyme the particular NLS s used or a combination of these factors. Detection of accumulation in the nucleus may be performed by any suitable technique. For example a detectable marker may be fused to the CRISPR enzyme such that location within a cell may be visualized such as in combination with a means for detecting the location of the nucleus e.g. a stain specific for the nucleus such as DAPI . Cell nuclei may also be isolated from cells the contents of which may then be analyzed by any suitable process for detecting protein such as immunohistochemistry Western blot or enzyme activity assay. Accumulation in the nucleus may also be determined indirectly such as by an assay for the effect of CRISPR complex formation e.g. assay for DNA cleavage or mutation at the target sequence or assay for altered gene expression activity affected by CRISPR complex formation and or CRISPR enzyme activity as compared to a control no exposed to the CRISPR enzyme or complex or exposed to a CRISPR enzyme lacking the one or more NLSs.

In general a guide sequence is any polynucleotide sequence having sufficient complementarity with a target polynucleotide sequence to hybridize with the target sequence and direct sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to the target sequence. In some embodiments the degree of complementarity between a guide sequence and its corresponding target sequence when optimally aligned using a suitable alignment algorithm is about or more than about 50 60 75 80 85 90 95 97.5 99 or more. Optimal alignment may be determined with the use of any suitable algorithm for aligning sequences non limiting example of which include the Smith Waterman algorithm the Needleman Wunsch algorithm algorithms based on the Burrows Wheeler Transform e.g. the Burrows Wheeler Aligner ClustalW Clustal X BLAT Novoalign Novocraft Technologies available at www.novocraft.com ELAND Illumina San Diego Calif. SOAP available at soap.genomics.org.cn and Maq available at maq.sourceforge.net . In some embodiments a guide sequence is about or more than about 5 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 75 or more nucleotides in length. In some embodiments a guide sequence is less than about 75 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 12 or fewer nucleotides in length. The ability of a guide sequence to direct sequence specific binding of a CRISPR complex to a target sequence may be assessed by any suitable assay. For example the components of a CRISPR system sufficient to form a CRISPR complex including the guide sequence to be tested may be provided to a host cell having the corresponding target sequence such as by transfection with vectors encoding the components of the CRISPR sequence followed by an assessment of preferential cleavage within the target sequence such as by Surveyor assay as described herein. Similarly cleavage of a target polynucleotide sequence may be evaluated in a test tube by providing the target sequence components of a CRISPR complex including the guide sequence to be tested and a control guide sequence different from the test guide sequence and comparing binding or rate of cleavage at the target sequence between the test and control guide sequence reactions. Other assays are possible and will occur to those skilled in the art.

Multiplexed Nickase Aspects of optimization and the teachings of Cas9 detailed in this application may also be used to generate Cas9 nickases. Cas9 nickases may be advantageously used in combination with pairs of guide RNAs to generate DNA double strand breaks with defined overhangs. When two pairs of guide RNAs are used it is possible to excise an intervening DNA fragment. If an exogenous piece of DNA is cleaved by the two pairs of guide RNAs to generate compatible overhangs with the genomic DNA then the exogenous DNA fragment may be ligated into the genomic DNA to replace the excised fragment. For example this may be used to remove trinucleotide repeat expansion in the huntingtin HTT gene to treat Huntington s Disease.

Cas9 and its chimeric guide RNA or combination of tracrRNA and crRNA can be delivered either as DNA or RNA. Delivery of Cas9 and guide RNA both as RNA normal or containing base or backbone modifications molecules can be used to reduce the amount of time that Cas9 protein persist in the cell. This may reduce the level of off target cleavage activity in the target cell. Since delivery of Cas9 as mRNA takes time to be translated into protein it might be advantageous to deliver the guide RNA several hours following the delivery of Cas9 mRNA to maximize the level of guide RNA available for interaction with Cas9 protein.

In situations where guide RNA amount is limiting it may be desirable to introduce Cas9 as mRNA and guide RNA in the form of a DNA expression cassette with a promoter driving the expression of the guide RNA. This way the amount of guide RNA available will be amplified via transcription.

A variety of delivery systems can be introduced to introduce Cas9 DNA or RNA and guide RNA DNA or RNA into the host cell. These include the use of liposomes viral vectors electroporation nanoparticles nanowires Shalek et al. Nano Letters 2012 exosomes. Molecular trojan horses liposomes Pardridge et al. Cold Spring Harb Protoc 2010 doi 10.1101 pdb.prot5407 may be used to deliver Cas9 and guide RNA across the blood brain barrier.

Discussion of guide RNAs for orthologs In some embodiments a guide sequence is selected to reduce the degree secondary structure within the guide RNA. In some embodiments about or less than about 75 50 40 30 25 20 15 10 5 1 or fewer of the nucleotides of the guide RNA participate in self complementary base pairing when optimally folded. Optimal folding may be determined by any suitable polynucleotide folding algorithm. Some programs are based on calculating the minimal Gibbs free energy. An example of one such algorithm is mFold as described by Zuker and Stiegler Nucleic Acids Res. 9 1981 133 148 . Another example folding algorithm is the online webserver RNAfold developed at Institute for Theoretical Chemistry at the University of Vienna using the centroid structure prediction algorithm see e.g. A. R. Gruber et al. 2008. Cell 106 1 23 24 and PA Carr and GM Church 2009 Nature Biotechnology 27 12 1151 62 . A method of optimizing the guide RNA of a Cas9 ortholog comprises breaking up polyU tracts in the guide RNA. PolyU tracts that may be broken up may comprise a series of 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 Us.

In general a tracr mate sequence includes any sequence that has sufficient complementarity with a tracr sequence to promote one or more of 1 excision of a guide sequence flanked by tracr mate sequences in a cell containing the corresponding tracr sequence and 2 formation of a CRISPR complex at a target sequence wherein the CRISPR complex comprises the tracr mate sequence hybridized to the tracr sequence. In general degree of complementarity is with reference to the optimal alignment of the tracr mate sequence and tracr sequence along the length of the shorter of the two sequences. Optimal alignment may be determined by any suitable alignment algorithm and may further account for secondary structures such as self complementarity within either the tracr sequence or tracr mate sequence. In some embodiments the degree of complementarity between the tracr sequence and tracr mate sequence along the length of the shorter of the two when optimally aligned is about or more than about 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 97.5 99 or higher. In some embodiments the tracr sequence is about or more than about 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 40 50 or more nucleotides in length. In some embodiments the tracr sequence and tracr mate sequence are contained within a single transcript such that hybridization between the two produces a transcript having a secondary structure such as a hairpin. In an embodiment of the invention the transcript or transcribed polynucleotide sequence has at least two or more hairpins. In preferred embodiments the transcript has two three four or five hairpins. In a further embodiment of the invention the transcript has at most five hairpins. In a hairpin structure the portion of the sequence 5 of the final N and upstream of the loop corresponds to the tracr mate sequence and the portion of the sequence 3 of the loop corresponds to the tracr sequence. Further non limiting examples of single polynucleotides comprising a guide sequence a tracr mate sequence and a tracr sequence are as follows listed 5 to 3 where N represents a base of a guide sequence the first block of lower case letters represent the tracr mate sequence and the second block of lower case letters represent the tracr sequence and the final poly T sequence represents the transcription terminator 1 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNgtttttgtactctcaagatttaGAAAtaaatcttgcagaagctacaaagataaggctt catgccgaaatcaacaccctgtcattttatggcagggtgttttcgttatttaaTTTTTT SEQ ID NO 75 2 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNgtttttgtactctcaGAAAtgcagaagctacaaagataaggcttcatgccgaaatca acaccctgtcattttatggcagggtgttttcgttatttaaTTTTTT SEQ ID NO 76 3 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNgtttttgtactctcaGAAAtgcagaagctacaaagataaggcttcatgccgaaatca acaccctgtcattttatggcagggtgtTTTTTT SEQ ID NO 77 4 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNgttttagagctaGAAAtagcaagttaaaataaggctagtccgttatcaacttgaaaa agtggcaccgagtcggtgcTTTTTT SEQ ID NO 78 5 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNgttttagagctaGAAATAGcaagttaaaataaggctagtccgttatcaacttgaa aaagtgTTTTTTT SEQ ID NO 79 and 6 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNgttttagagctagAAATAGcaagttaaaataaggctagtccgttatcaTTTTT TTT SEQ ID NO 80 . In some embodiments sequences 1 to 3 are used in combination with Cas9 from CRISPR1. In some embodiments sequences 4 to 6 are used in combination with Cas9 from . In some embodiments the tracr sequence is a separate transcript from a transcript comprising the tracr mate sequence.

Discussion of tracr mates for orthologs In some embodiments a recombination template is also provided. A recombination template may be a component of another vector as described herein contained in a separate vector or provided as a separate polynucleotide. In some embodiments a recombination template is designed to serve as a template in homologous recombination such as within or near a target sequence nicked or cleaved by a CRISPR enzyme as a part of a CRISPR complex. A template polynucleotide may be of any suitable length such as about or more than about 10 15 20 25 50 75 100 150 200 500 1000 or more nucleotides in length. In some embodiments the template polynucleotide is complementary to a portion of a polynucleotide comprising the target sequence. When optimally aligned a template polynucleotide might overlap with one or more nucleotides of a target sequences e.g. about or more than about 1 5 10 15 20 or more nucleotides . In some embodiments when a template sequence and a polynucleotide comprising a target sequence are optimally aligned the nearest nucleotide of the template polynucleotide is within about 1 5 10 15 20 25 50 75 100 200 300 400 500 1000 5000 10000 or more nucleotides from the target sequence.

In some embodiments the CRISPR enzyme is part of a fusion protein comprising one or more heterologous protein domains e.g. about or more than about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more domains in addition to the CRISPR enzyme . A CRISPR enzyme fusion protein may comprise any additional protein sequence and optionally a linker sequence between any two domains. Examples of protein domains that may be fused to a CRISPR enzyme include without limitation epitope tags reporter gene sequences and protein domains having one or more of the following activities methylase activity demethylase activity transcription activation activity transcription repression activity transcription release factor activity histone modification activity RNA cleavage activity and nucleic acid binding activity. Non limiting examples of epitope tags include histidine His tags V5 tags FLAG tags influenza hemagglutinin HA tags Myc tags VSV G tags and thioredoxin Trx tags. Examples of reporter genes include but are not limited to glutathione S transferase GST horseradish peroxidase HRP chloramphenicol acetyltransferase CAT beta galactosidase beta glucuronidase luciferase green fluorescent protein GFP HcRed DsRed cyan fluorescent protein CFP yellow fluorescent protein YFP and autofluorescent proteins including blue fluorescent protein BFP . A CRISPR enzyme may be fused to a gene sequence encoding a protein or a fragment of a protein that bind DNA molecules or bind other cellular molecules including but not limited to maltose binding protein MBP S tag Lex A DNA binding domain DBD fusions GAL4 DNA binding domain fusions and herpes simplex virus HSV BP16 protein fusions. Additional domains that may form part of a fusion protein comprising a CRISPR enzyme are described in US20110059502 incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments a tagged CRISPR enzyme is used to identify the location of a target sequence.

In some embodiments a CRISPR enzyme may form a component of an inducible system. The inducible nature of the system would allow for spatiotemporal control of gene editing or gene expression using a form of energy. The form of energy may include but is not limited to electromagnetic radiation sound energy chemical energy and thermal energy. Examples of inducible system include tetracycline inducible promoters Tet On or Tet Off small molecule two hybrid transcription activations systems FKBP ABA etc or light inducible systems Phytochrome LOV domains or cryptochorome . In one embodiment the CRISPR enzyme may be a part of a Light Inducible Transcriptional Effector LITE to direct changes in transcriptional activity in a sequence specific manner. The components of a light may include a CRISPR enzyme a light responsive cytochrome heterodimer e.g. from and a transcriptional activation repression domain. Further examples of inducible DNA binding proteins and methods for their use are provided in U.S. 61 736 465 and U.S. 61 721 283 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some aspects the invention provides methods comprising delivering one or more polynucleotides such as or one or more vectors as described herein one or more transcripts thereof and or one or proteins transcribed therefrom to a host cell. In some aspects the invention further provides cells produced by such methods and animals comprising or produced from such cells. In some embodiments a CRISPR enzyme in combination with and optionally complexed with a guide sequence is delivered to a cell. Conventional viral and non viral based gene transfer methods can be used to introduce nucleic acids in mammalian cells or target tissues. Such methods can be used to administer nucleic acids encoding components of a CRISPR system to cells in culture or in a host organism. Non viral vector delivery systems include DNA plasmids RNA e.g. a transcript of a vector described herein naked nucleic acid and nucleic acid complexed with a delivery vehicle such as a liposome. Viral vector delivery systems include DNA and RNA viruses which have either episomal or integrated genomes after delivery to the cell. For a review of gene therapy procedures see Anderson Science 256 808 813 1992 Nabel Feigner TIBTECH 11 211 217 1993 Mitani Caskey TIBTECH 11 162 166 1993 Dillon. TIBTECH 11 167 175 1993 Miller Nature 357 455 460 1992 Van Brunt Biotechnology 6 10 1149 1154 1988 Vigne Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience 8 35 36 1995 Kremer Perricaudet British Medical Bulletin 51 1 31 44 1995 Haddada et al. in Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology Doerfler and B hm eds 1995 and Yu et al. Gene Therapy 1 13 26 1994 .

Methods of non viral delivery of nucleic acids include lipofection microinjection biolistics virosomes liposomes immunoliposomes polycation or lipid nucleic acid conjugates naked DNA artificial virions and agent enhanced uptake of DNA. Lipofection is described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 049 386 4 946 787 and 4 897 355 and lipofection reagents are sold commercially e.g. Transfectam and Lipofectin . Cationic and neutral lipids that are suitable for efficient receptor recognition lipofection of polynucleotides include those of Felgner WO 91 17424 WO 91 16024. Delivery can be to cells e.g. in vitro or ex vivo administration or target tissues e.g. in vivo administration .

The preparation of lipid nucleic acid complexes including targeted liposomes such as immunolipid complexes is well known to one of skill in the art see e.g. Crystal Science 270 404 410 1995 Blaese et al. Cancer Gene Ther. 2 291 297 1995 Behr et al. Bioconjugate Chem. 5 382 389 1994 Remy et al. Bioconjugate Chem. 5 647 654 1994 Gao et al. Gene Therapy 2 710 722 1995 Ahmad et al. Cancer Res. 52 4817 4820 1992 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 186 183 4 217 344 4 235 871 4 261 975 4 485 054 4 501 728 4 774 085 4 837 028 and 4 946 787 .

The use of RNA or DNA viral based systems for the delivery of nucleic acids take advantage of highly evolved processes for targeting a virus to specific cells in the body and trafficking the viral payload to the nucleus. Viral vectors can be administered directly to patients in vivo or they can be used to treat cells in vitro and the modified cells may optionally be administered to patients ex vivo . Conventional viral based systems could include retroviral lentivirus adenoviral adeno associated and herpes simplex virus vectors for gene transfer. Integration in the host genome is possible with the retrovirus lentivirus and adeno associated virus gene transfer methods often resulting in long term expression of the inserted transgene. Additionally high transduction efficiencies have been observed in many different cell types and target tissues.

The tropism of a retrovirus can be altered by incorporating foreign envelope proteins expanding the potential target population of target cells. Lentiviral vectors are retroviral vectors that are able to transduce or infect non dividing cells and typically produce high viral titers. Selection of a retroviral gene transfer system would therefore depend on the target tissue. Retroviral vectors are comprised of cis acting long terminal repeats with packaging capacity for up to 6 10 kb of foreign sequence. The minimum cis acting LTRs are sufficient for replication and packaging of the vectors which are then used to integrate the therapeutic gene into the target cell to provide permanent transgene expression. Widely used retroviral vectors include those based upon murine leukemia virus MuLV gibbon ape leukemia virus GaLV Simian Immuno deficiency virus SIV human immuno deficiency virus HIV and combinations thereof see e.g. Buchscher et al. J. Virol. 66 2731 2739 1992 Johann et al. J. Virol. 66 1635 1640 1992 Sommnerfelt et al. Virol. 176 58 59 1990 Wilson et al. J. Virol. 63 2374 2378 1989 Miller et al. J. Virol. 65 2220 2224 1991 PCT US94 05700 .

In applications where transient expression is preferred adenoviral based systems may be used. Adenoviral based vectors are capable of very high transduction efficiency in many cell types and do not require cell division. With such vectors high titer and levels of expression have been obtained. This vector can be produced in large quantities in a relatively simple system.

Adeno associated virus AAV vectors may also be used to transduce cells with target nucleic acids e.g. in the in vitro production of nucleic acids and peptides and for in vivo and ex vivo gene therapy procedures see e.g. West et al. Virology 160 38 47 1987 U.S. Pat. No. 4 797 368 WO 93 24641 Kotin Human Gene Therapy 5 793 801 1994 Muzyczka J. Clin. Invest. 94 1351 1994 . Construction of recombinant AAV vectors are described in a number of publications including U.S. Pat. No. 5 173 414 Tratschin et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 5 3251 3260 1985 Tratschin et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 4 2072 2081 1984 Hermonat Muzyczka PNAS 81 6466 6470 1984 and Samulski et al. J. Virol. 63 03822 3828 1989 .

Packaging cells are typically used to form virus particles that are capable of infecting a host cell. Such cells include 293 cells which package adenovirus and 2 cells or PA317 cells which package retrovirus. Viral vectors used in gene therapy are usually generated by producer a cell line that packages a nucleic acid vector into a viral particle. The vectors typically contain the minimal viral sequences required for packaging and subsequent integration into a host other viral sequences being replaced by an expression cassette for the polynucleotide s to be expressed. The missing viral functions are typically supplied in trans by the packaging cell line. For example AAV vectors used in gene therapy typically only possess ITR sequences from the AAV genome which are required for packaging and integration into the host genome. Viral DNA is packaged in a cell line which contains a helper plasmid encoding the other AAV genes namely rep and cap but lacking ITR sequences. The cell line may also infected with adenovirus as a helper. The helper virus promotes replication of the AAV vector and expression of AAV genes from the helper plasmid. The helper plasmid is not packaged in significant amounts due to a lack of ITR sequences. Contamination with adenovirus can be reduced by e.g. heat treatment to which adenovirus is more sensitive than AAV. Additional methods for the delivery of nucleic acids to cells are known to those skilled in the art. See for example US20030087817 incorporated herein by reference.

Accordingly AAV is considered an ideal candidate for use as a transducing vector. Such AAV transducing vectors can comprise sufficient cis acting functions to replicate in the presence of adenovirus or herpesvirus or poxvirus e.g. vaccinia virus helper functions provided in trans. Recombinant AAV rAAV can be used to carry exogenous genes into cells of a variety of lineages. In these vectors the AAV cap and or rep genes are deleted from the viral genome and replaced with a DNA segment of choice. Current AAV vectors may accommodate up to 4300 bases of inserted DNA.

There are a number of ways to produce rAAV and the invention provides rAAV and methods for preparing rAAV. For example plasmid s containing or consisting essentially of the desired viral construct are transfected into AAV infected cells. In addition a second or additional helper plasmid is cotransfected into these cells to provide the AAV rep and or cap genes which are obligatory for replication and packaging of the recombinant viral construct. Under these conditions the rep and or cap proteins of AAV act in trans to stimulate replication and packaging of the rAAV construct. Two to Three days after transfection rAAV is harvested. Traditionally rAAV is harvested from the cells along with adenovirus. The contaminating adenovirus is then inactivated by heat treatment. In the instant invention rAAV is advantageously harvested not from the cells themselves but from cell supernatant. Accordingly in an initial aspect the invention provides for preparing rAAV and in addition to the foregoing rAAV can be prepared by a method that comprises or consists essentially of infecting susceptible cells with a rAAV containing exogenous DNA including DNA for expression and helper virus e.g. adenovirus herpesvirus poxvirus such as vaccinia virus wherein the rAAV lacks functioning cap and or rep and the helper virus e.g. adenovirus herpesvirus poxvirus such as vaccinia virus provides the cap and or rev function that the rAAV lacks or infecting susceptible cells with a rAAV containing exogenous DNA including DNA for expression wherein the recombinant lacks functioning cap and or rep and transfecting said cells with a plasmid supplying cap and or rep function that the rAAV lacks or infecting susceptible cells with a rAAV containing exogenous DNA including DNA for expression wherein the recombinant lacks functioning cap and or rep wherein said cells supply cap and or rep function that the recombinant lacks or transfecting the susceptible cells with an AAV lacking functioning cap and or rep and plasmids for inserting exogenous DNA into the recombinant so that the exogenous DNA is expressed by the recombinant and for supplying rep and or cap functions whereby transfection results in an rAAV containing the exogenous DNA including DNA for expression that lacks functioning cap and or rep.

The rAAV can be from an AAV as herein described and advantageously can be an rAAV1 rAAV2 AAV5 or rAAV having hybrid or capsid which may comprise AAV1 AAV2 AAV5 or any combination thereof. One can select the AAV of the rAAV with regard to the cells to be targeted by the rAAV e.g. one can select AAV serotypes 1 2 5 or a hybrid or capsid AAV1 AAV2 AAV5 or any combination thereof for targeting brain or neuronal cells and one can select AAV4 for targeting cardiac tissue AAV8 for targeting of liver tissue.

In addition to 293 cells other cells that can be used in the practice of the invention and the relative infectivity of certain AAV serotypes in vitro as to these cells see Grimm D. et al J. Virol. 82 5887 5911 2008 are as follows 

The invention provides rAAV that contains or consists essentially of an exogenous nucleic acid molecule encoding a CRISPR Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats system e.g. a plurality of cassettes comprising or consisting a first cassette comprising or consisting essentially of a promoter a nucleic acid molecule encoding a CRISPR associated Cas protein putative nuclease or helicase proteins e.g. Cas9 and a terminator and a two or more advantageously up to the packaging size limit of the vector e.g. in total including the first cassette five cassettes comprising or consisting essentially of a promoter nucleic acid molecule encoding guide RNA gRNA and a terminator e.g. each cassette schematically represented as Promoter gRNA1 terminator. Promoter gRNA2 terminator . . . Promoter gRNA N terminator where N is a number that can be inserted that is at an upper limit of the packaging size limit of the vector or two or more individual rAAVs each containing one or more than one cassette of a CRISPR system e.g. a first rAAV containing the first cassette comprising or consisting essentially of a promoter a nucleic acid molecule encoding Cas e.g. Cas9 and a terminator and a second rAAV containing a plurality four cassettes comprising or consisting essentially of a promoter nucleic acid molecule encoding guide RNA gRNA and a terminator e.g. each cassette schematically represented as Promoter gRNA1 terminator Promoter gRNA2 terminator . . . Promoter gRNA N terminator where N is a number that can be inserted that is at an upper limit of the packaging size limit of the vector . As rAAV is a DNA virus the nucleic acid molecules in the herein discussion concerning AAV or rAAV are advantageously DNA. The promoter is in some embodiments advantageously human Synapsin I promoter hSyn .

Two ways to package Cas9 coding nucleic acid molecules e.g. DNA into viral vectors to mediate genome modification in vivo are preferred 

Vector 2 containing one more expression cassettes for driving the expression of one or more guideRNAs

To mediate homology directed repair. In addition to the single and double virus vector approaches described above an additional vector is used to deliver a homology direct repair template.

Promoter used to drive Cas9 coding nucleic acid molecule expression can include AAV ITR can serve as a promoter this is advantageous for eliminating the need for an additional promoter element which can take up space in the vector . The additional space freed up can be used to drive the expression of additional elements gRNA etc . Also ITR activity is relatively weaker so can be used to reduce toxicity due to over expression of Cas9.

For brain expression can use promoters SynapsinI for all neurons CaMKIIalpha for excitatory neurons GAD67 or GAD65 or VGAT for GABAergic neurons etc.

As to AAV the AAV can be AAV1 AAV2 AAV5 or any combination thereof. One can select the AAV of the AAV with regard to the cells to be targeted e.g. one can select AAV serotypes 1 2 5 or a hybrid or capsid AAV1 AAV2 AAV5 or any combination thereof for targeting brain or neuronal cells and one can select AAV4 for targeting cardiac tissue. AAV8 is useful for delivery to the liver. The above promoters and vectors are preferred individually.

Additional methods for the delivery of nucleic acids to cells are known to those skilled in the art. See for example. US20030087817 incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments a host cell is transiently or non transiently transfected with one or more vectors described herein. In some embodiments a cell is transfected as it naturally occurs in a subject. In some embodiments a cell that is transfected is taken from a subject. In some embodiments the cell is derived from cells taken from a subject such as a cell line. A wide variety of cell lines for tissue culture are known in the art. Examples of cell lines include but are not limited to C8161 CCRF CEM MOLT mIMCD 3 NHDF HeLa S3 Huh1 Huh4 Huh7 HUVEC HASMC HEKn HEKa MiaPaCell Panc1 PC 3 TF1 CTLL 2 C1R Rat6 CV1 RPTE A10 T24 J82 A375 ARH 77 Calu1 SW480 SW620 SKOV3 SK UT CaCo2 P388D1 SEM K2 WEHI 231 HB56 TIB55 Jurkat J45.01 LRMB Bcl 1 BC 3 IC21 DLD2 Raw264.7 NRK NRK 52E MRC5 MEF Hep G2 HeLa B HeLa T4 COS COS 1 COS 6 COS M6A BS C 1 monkey kidney epithelial BALB 3T3 mouse embryo fibroblast 3T3 Swiss 3T3 L1 132 d5 human fetal fibroblasts 10.1 mouse fibroblasts 293 T 3T3 721 9L A2780 A2780ADR A2780cis A172 A20 A253 A431 A 549 ALC B16 B35 BCP 1 cells BEAS 2B bEnd.3 BHK 21 BR 293 BxPC3 C3H 10T1 2 C6 36 Cal 27 CHO CHO 7 CHO IR CHO K1 CHO K2 CHO T CHO Dhfr COR L23 COR L23 CPR COR L23 5010 COR L23 R23 COS 7 COV 434 CML T1 CMT CT26 D17 DH82 DU145 DuCaP EL4A EM2 EM3 EMT6 AR1 EMT6 AR10.0 FM3 H1299 H69 HB54 HB55 HCA2 HEK 293 HeLa Hepa1c1c7 HL 60 HMEC HT 29 Jurkat JY cells K562 cells Ku812 KCL22 KG1 KYO1 LNCap Ma Mel 1 48 MC 38 MCF 7 MCF 10A MDA MB 231 MDA MB 468 MDA MB 435 MDCK II MDCK II MOR 0.2R MONO MAC 6 MTD 1A MyEnd NCI H69 CPR NCI H69 LX10 NCI H69 LX20 NCI H69 LX4 NIH 3T3 NALM 1 NW 145 OPCN OPCT cell lines Peer PNT 1A PNT 2 RenCa RIN 5F RMA RMAS Saos 2 cells Sf 9 SkBr3 T2 T 47D T84 THP1 cell line U373 U87 U937 VCaP Vero cells WM39 WT 49 X63 YAC 1 YAR and transgenic varieties thereof. Cell lines are available from a variety of sources known to those with skill in the art see e.g. the American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. . In some embodiments a cell transfected with one or more vectors described herein is used to establish a new cell line comprising one or more vector derived sequences. In some embodiments a cell transiently transfected with the components of a CRISPR system as described herein such as by transient transfection of one or more vectors or transfection with RNA and modified through the activity of a CRISPR complex is used to establish a new cell line comprising cells containing the modification but lacking any other exogenous sequence. In some embodiments cells transiently or non transiently transfected with one or more vectors described herein or cell lines derived from such cells are used in assessing one or more test compounds.

In some embodiments one or more vectors described herein are used to produce a non human transgenic animal or transgenic plant. In some embodiments the transgenic animal is a mammal such as a mouse rat or rabbit. Methods for producing transgenic plants and animals are known in the art and generally begin with a method of cell transfection such as described herein.

With recent advances in crop genomics the ability to use CRISPR Cas systems to perform efficient and cost effective gene editing and manipulation will allow the rapid selection and comparison of single and multiplexed genetic manipulations to transform such genomes for improved production and enhanced traits. In this regard reference is made to US patents and publications U.S. Pat. No. 6 603 061 Mediated Plant Transformation Method U.S. Pat. No. 7 868 149 Plant Genome Sequences and Uses Thereof and US 2009 0100536 Transgenic Plants with Enhanced Agronomic Traits all the contents and disclosure of each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the practice of the invention the contents and disclosure of Morrell et al Crop genomics advances and applications Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Dec. 29 13 2 85 96 are also herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. In an advantageous embodiment of the invention the CRSIPR Cas9 system is used to engineer microalgae Example 7 . Accordingly reference herein to animal cells may also apply mutatis mutandis to plant cells unless otherwise apparent.

In one aspect the invention provides for methods of modifying a target polynucleotide in a eukaryotic cell which may be in vivo ex vivo or in vitro. In some embodiments the method comprises sampling a cell or population of cells from a human or non human animal or plant including micro algae and modifying the cell or cells. Culturing may occur at any stage ex vivo. The cell or cells may even be re introduced into the non human animal or plant including micro algae . For re introduced cells it is particularly preferred that the cells are stem cells.

In some embodiments the method comprises allowing a CRISPR complex to bind to the target polynucleotide to effect cleavage of said target polynucleotide thereby modifying the target polynucleotide wherein the CRISPR complex comprises a CRISPR enzyme complexed with a guide sequence hybridized to a target sequence within said target polynucleotide wherein said guide sequence is linked to a tracr mate sequence which in turn hybridizes to a tracr sequence.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of modifying expression of a polynucleotide in a eukaryotic cell. In some embodiments the method comprises allowing a CRISPR complex to bind to the polynucleotide such that said binding results in increased or decreased expression of said polynucleotide wherein the CRISPR complex comprises a CRISPR enzyme complexed with a guide sequence hybridized to a target sequence within said polynucleotide wherein said guide sequence is linked to a tracr mate sequence which in turn hybridizes to a tracr sequence. Similar considerations apply as above for methods of modifying a target polynucleotide. In fact these sampling culturing and re introduction options apply across the aspects of the present invention.

In one aspect the invention provides kits containing any one or more of the elements disclosed in the above methods and compositions. Elements may provide individually or in combinations and may provided in any suitable container such as a vial a bottle or a tube. In some embodiments the kit includes instructions in one or more languages for example in more than one language.

In some embodiments a kit comprises one or more reagents for use in a process utilizing one or more of the elements described herein. Reagents may be provided in any suitable container. For example a kit may provide one or more reaction or storage buffers. Reagents may be provided in a form that is usable in a particular assay or in a form that requires addition of one or more other components before use e.g. in concentrate or lyophilized form . A buffer can be any buffer including but not limited to a sodium carbonate buffer a sodium bicarbonate buffer a borate buffer a Tris buffer a MOPS buffer a HEPES buffer and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the buffer is alkaline. In some embodiments the buffer has a pH from about 7 to about 10. In some embodiments the kit comprises one or more oligonucleotides corresponding to a guide sequence for insertion into a vector so as to operably link the guide sequence and a regulatory element. In some embodiments the kit comprises a homologous recombination template polynucleotide.

In one aspect the invention provides methods for using one or more elements of a CRISPR system. The CRISPR complex of the invention provides an effective means for modifying a target polynucleotide. The CRISPR complex of the invention has a wide variety of utility including modifying e.g. deleting inserting translocating inactivating activating a target polynucleotide in a multiplicity of cell types. As such the CRISPR complex of the invention has a broad spectrum of applications in e.g. gene therapy drug screening disease diagnosis and prognosis. An exemplary CRISPR complex comprises a CRISPR enzyme complexed with a guide sequence hybridized to a target sequence within the target polynucleotide. The guide sequence is linked to a tracr mate sequence which in turn hybridizes to a tracr sequence.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of cleaving a target polynucleotide. The method comprises modifying a target polynucleotide using a CRISPR complex that binds to the target polynucleotide and effect cleavage of said target polynucleotide. Typically the CRISPR complex of the invention when introduced into a cell creates a break e.g. a single or a double strand break in the genome sequence. For example the method can be used to cleave a disease gene in a cell.

The break created by the CRISPR complex can be repaired by a repair processes such as the error prone non homologous end joining NHEJ pathway or the high fidelity homology directed repair HDR . During these repair processes an exogenous polynucleotide template can be introduced into the genome sequence. In some methods the HDR process is used to modify a genome sequence. For example an exogenous polynucleotide template comprising a sequence to be integrated flanked by an upstream sequence and a downstream sequence is introduced into a cell. The upstream and downstream sequences share sequence similarity with either side of the site of integration in the chromosome.

Where desired a donor polynucleotide can be DNA e.g. a DNA plasmid a bacterial artificial chromosome BAC a yeast artificial chromosome YAC a viral vector a linear piece of DNA a PCR fragment a naked nucleic acid or a nucleic acid complexed with a delivery vehicle such as a liposome or poloxamer.

The exogenous polynucleotide template comprises a sequence to be integrated e.g a mutated gene . The sequence for integration may be a sequence endogenous or exogenous to the cell. Examples of a sequence to be integrated include polynucleotides encoding a protein or a non coding RNA e.g. a microRNA . Thus the sequence for integration may be operably linked to an appropriate control sequence or sequences. Alternatively the sequence to be integrated may provide a regulatory function.

The upstream and downstream sequences in the exogenous polynucleotide template are selected to promote recombination between the chromosomal sequence of interest and the donor polynucleotide. The upstream sequence is a nucleic acid sequence that shares sequence similarity with the genome sequence upstream of the targeted site for integration. Similarly the downstream sequence is a nucleic acid sequence that shares sequence similarity with the chromosomal sequence downstream of the targeted site of integration. The upstream and downstream sequences in the exogenous polynucleotide template can have 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 sequence identity with the targeted genome sequence. Preferably the upstream and downstream sequences in the exogenous polynucleotide template have about 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 sequence identity with the targeted genome sequence. In some methods the upstream and downstream sequences in the exogenous polynucleotide template have about 99 or 100 sequence identity with the targeted genome sequence.

An upstream or downstream sequence may comprise from about 20 bp to about 2500 bp for example about 50 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300 2400 or 2500 bp. In some methods the exemplary upstream or downstream sequence has about 200 bp to about 2000 bp about 600 bp to about 1000 bp or more particularly about 700 bp to about 1000 bp.

In some methods the exogenous polynucleotide template may further comprise a marker. Such a marker may make it easy to screen for targeted integrations. Examples of suitable markers include restriction sites fluorescent proteins or selectable markers. The exogenous polynucleotide template of the invention can be constructed using recombinant techniques see for example Sambrook et al. 2001 and Ausubel et al. 1996 .

In an exemplary method for modifying a target polynucleotide by integrating an exogenous polynucleotide template a double stranded break is introduced into the genome sequence by the CRISPR complex the break is repaired via homologous recombination an exogenous polynucleotide template such that the template is integrated into the genome. The presence of a double stranded break facilitates integration of the template.

In other embodiments this invention provides a method of modifying expression of a polynucleotide in a eukaryotic cell. The method comprises increasing or decreasing expression of a target polynucleotide by using a CRISPR complex that binds to the polynucleotide.

In some methods a target polynucleotide can be inactivated to effect the modification of the expression in a cell. For example upon the binding of a CRISPR complex to a target sequence in a cell the target polynucleotide is inactivated such that the sequence is not transcribed the coded protein is not produced or the sequence does not function as the wild type sequence does. For example a protein or microRNA coding sequence may be inactivated such that the protein is not produced.

In some methods a control sequence can be inactivated such that it no longer functions as a control sequence. As used herein. control sequence refers to any nucleic acid sequence that effects the transcription translation or accessibility of a nucleic acid sequence. Examples of a control sequence include a promoter a transcription terminator and an enhancer are control sequences.

The inactivated target sequence may include a deletion mutation i.e. deletion of one or more nucleotides an insertion mutation i.e. insertion of one or more nucleotides or a nonsense mutation i.e. substitution of a single nucleotide for another nucleotide such that a stop codon is introduced . In some methods the inactivation of a target sequence results in knockout of the target sequence.

An altered expression of one or more genome sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway can be determined by assaying for a difference in the mRNA levels of the corresponding genes between the test model cell and a control cell when they are contacted with a candidate agent. Alternatively the differential expression of the sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway is determined by detecting a difference in the level of the encoded polypeptide or gene product.

To assay for an agent induced alteration in the level of mRNA transcripts or corresponding polynucleotides nucleic acid contained in a sample is first extracted according to standard methods in the art. For instance mRNA can be isolated using various lytic enzymes or chemical solutions according to the procedures set forth in Sambrook et al. 1989 or extracted by nucleic acid binding resins following the accompanying instructions provided by the manufacturers. The mRNA contained in the extracted nucleic acid sample is then detected by amplification procedures or conventional hybridization assays e.g. Northern blot analysis according to methods widely known in the art or based on the methods exemplified herein.

For purpose of this invention amplification means any method employing a primer and a polymerase capable of replicating a target sequence with reasonable fidelity. Amplification may be carried out by natural or recombinant DNA polymerases such as TaqGold T7 DNA polymerase Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase and reverse transcriptase. A preferred amplification method is PCR. In particular the isolated RNA can be subjected to a reverse transcription assay that is coupled with a quantitative polymerase chain reaction RT PCR in order to quantify the expression level of a sequence associated with a signaling biochemical pathway.

Detection of the gene expression level can be conducted in real time in an amplification assay. In one aspect the amplified products can be directly visualized with fluorescent DNA binding agents including but not limited to DNA intercalators and DNA groove binders. Because the amount of the intercalators incorporated into the double stranded DNA molecules is typically proportional to the amount of the amplified DNA products one can conveniently determine the amount of the amplified products by quantifying the fluorescence of the intercalated dye using conventional optical systems in the art. DNA binding dye suitable for this application include SYBR green SYBR blue DAPI propidium iodine Hoeste SYBR gold ethidium bromide acridines proflavine acridine orange acriflavine fluorcoumanin ellipticine daunomycin chloroquine distamycin D chromomycin homidium mithramycin ruthenium polypyridyls anthramycin and the like.

In another aspect other fluorescent labels such as sequence specific probes can be employed in the amplification reaction to facilitate the detection and quantification of the amplified products. Probe based quantitative amplification relies on the sequence specific detection of a desired amplified product. It utilizes fluorescent target specific probes e.g. TaqMan probes resulting in increased specificity and sensitivity. Methods for performing probe based quantitative amplification are well established in the art and are taught in U.S. Pat. No. 5 210 015.

In yet another aspect conventional hybridization assays using hybridization probes that share sequence homology with sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway can be performed. Typically probes are allowed to form stable complexes with the sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway contained within the biological sample derived from the test subject in a hybridization reaction. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that where antisense is used as the probe nucleic acid the target polynucleotides provided in the sample are chosen to be complementary to sequences of the antisense nucleic acids. Conversely where the nucleotide probe is a sense nucleic acid the target polynucleotide is selected to be complementary to sequences of the sense nucleic acid.

Hybridization can be performed under conditions of various stringency for instance as described herein. Suitable hybridization conditions for the practice of the present invention are such that the recognition interaction between the probe and sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway is both sufficiently specific and sufficiently stable. Conditions that increase the stringency of a hybridization reaction are widely known and published in the art. See for example Sambrook et al. 1989 Nonradioactive in Situ Hybridization Application Manual Boehringer Mannheim second edition . The hybridization assay can be formed using probes immobilized on any solid support including but are not limited to nitrocellulose glass silicon and a variety of gene arrays. A preferred hybridization assay is conducted on high density gene chips as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 445 934.

For a convenient detection of the probe target complexes formed during the hybridization assay the nucleotide probes are conjugated to a detectable label. Detectable labels suitable for use in the present invention include any composition detectable by photochemical biochemical spectroscopic immunochemical electrical optical or chemical means. A wide variety of appropriate detectable labels are known in the art which include fluorescent or chemiluminescent labels radioactive isotope labels enzymatic or other ligands. In preferred embodiments one will likely desire to employ a fluorescent label or an enzyme tag such as digoxigenin galactosidase urease alkaline phosphatase or peroxidase avidin biotin complex.

The detection methods used to detect or quantify the hybridization intensity will typically depend upon the label selected above. For example radiolabels may be detected using photographic film or a phosphoimager. Fluorescent markers may be detected and quantified using a photodetector to detect emitted light. Enzymatic labels are typically detected by providing the enzyme with a substrate and measuring the reaction product produced by the action of the enzyme on the substrate and finally colorimetric labels are detected by simply visualizing the colored label.

An agent induced change in expression of sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway can also be determined by examining the corresponding gene products. Determining the protein level typically involves a contacting the protein contained in a biological sample with an agent that specifically bind to a protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway and b identifying any agent protein complex so formed. In one aspect of this embodiment the agent that specifically binds a protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway is an antibody preferably a monoclonal antibody.

The reaction is performed by contacting the agent with a sample of the proteins associated with a signaling biochemical pathway derived from the test samples under conditions that will allow a complex to form between the agent and the proteins associated with a signaling biochemical pathway. The formation of the complex can be detected directly or indirectly according to standard procedures in the art. In the direct detection method the agents are supplied with a detectable label and unreacted agents may be removed from the complex the amount of remaining label thereby indicating the amount of complex formed. For such method it is preferable to select labels that remain attached to the agents even during stringent washing conditions. It is preferable that the label does not interfere with the binding reaction. In the alternative an indirect detection procedure may use an agent that contains a label introduced either chemically or enzymatically. A desirable label generally does not interfere with binding or the stability of the resulting agent polypeptide complex. However the label is typically designed to be accessible to an antibody for an effective binding and hence generating a detectable signal.

A wide variety of labels suitable for detecting protein levels are known in the art. Non limiting examples include radioisotopes enzymes colloidal metals fluorescent compounds bioluminescent compounds and chemiluminescent compounds.

The amount of agent polypeptide complexes formed during the binding reaction can be quantified by standard quantitative assays. As illustrated above the formation of agent polypeptide complex can be measured directly by the amount of label remained at the site of binding. In an alternative the protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway is tested for its ability to compete with a labeled analog for binding sites on the specific agent. In this competitive assay the amount of label captured is inversely proportional to the amount of protein sequences associated with a signaling biochemical pathway present in a test sample.

A number of techniques for protein analysis based on the general principles outlined above are available in the art. They include but are not limited to radioimmunoassays ELISA enzyme linked immunoradiometric assays sandwich immunoassays immunoradiometric assays in situ immunoassays using e.g. colloidal gold enzyme or radioisotope labels western blot analysis immunoprecipitation assays immunofluorescent assays and SDS PAGE.

Antibodies that specifically recognize or bind to proteins associated with a signaling biochemical pathway are preferable for conducting the aforementioned protein analyses. Where desired antibodies that recognize a specific type of post translational modifications e.g. signaling biochemical pathway inducible modifications can be used. Post translational modifications include but are not limited to glycosylation lipidation acetylation and phosphorylation. These antibodies may be purchased from commercial vendors. For example anti phosphotyrosine antibodies that specifically recognize tyrosine phosphorylated proteins are available from a number of vendors including Invitrogen and Perkin Elmer. Anti phosphotyrosine antibodies are particularly useful in detecting proteins that are differentially phosphorylated on their tyrosine residues in response to an ER stress. Such proteins include but are not limited to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha eIF 2 . Alternatively these antibodies can be generated using conventional polyclonal or monoclonal antibody technologies by immunizing a host animal or an antibody producing cell with a target protein that exhibits the desired post translational modification.

In practicing the subject method it may be desirable to discern the expression pattern of an protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway in different bodily tissue in different cell types and or in different subcellular structures. These studies can be performed with the use of tissue specific cell specific or subcellular structure specific antibodies capable of binding to protein markers that are preferentially expressed in certain tissues cell types or subcellular structures.

An altered expression of a gene associated with a signaling biochemical pathway can also be determined by examining a change in activity of the gene product relative to a control cell. The assay for an agent induced change in the activity of a protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway will dependent on the biological activity and or the signal transduction pathway that is under investigation. For example where the protein is a kinase a change in its ability to phosphorylate the downstream substrate s can be determined by a variety of assays known in the art. Representative assays include but are not limited to immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation with antibodies such as anti phosphotyrosine antibodies that recognize phosphorylated proteins. In addition kinase activity can be detected by high throughput chemiluminescent assays such as AlphaScreen available from Perkin Elmer and eTag assay Chan Hui et al. 2003 Clinical Immunology 111 162 174 .

Where the protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway is part of a signaling cascade leading to a fluctuation of intracellular pH condition pH sensitive molecules such as fluorescent pH dyes can be used as the reporter molecules. In another example where the protein associated with a signaling biochemical pathway is an ion channel fluctuations in membrane potential and or intracellular ion concentration can be monitored. A number of commercial kits and high throughput devices are particularly suited for a rapid and robust screening for modulators of ion channels. Representative instruments include FLIPR Molecular Devices Inc. and VIPR Aurora Biosciences . These instruments are capable of detecting reactions in over 1000 sample wells of a microplate simultaneously and providing real time measurement and functional data within a second or even a minisecond.

In practicing any of the methods disclosed herein a suitable vector can be introduced to a cell or an embryo via one or more methods known in the art including without limitation microinjection electroporation sonoporation biolistics calcium phosphate mediated transfection cationic transfection liposome transfection dendrimer transfection heat shock transfection nucleofection transfection magnetofection lipofection impalefection optical transfection proprietary agent enhanced uptake of nucleic acids and delivery via liposomes immunoliposomes virosomes or artificial virions. In some methods the vector is introduced into an embryo by microinjection. The vector or vectors may be microinjected into the nucleus or the cytoplasm of the embryo. In some methods the vector or vectors may be introduced into a cell by nucleofection.

The target polynucleotide of a CRISPR complex can be any polynucleotide endogenous or exogenous to the eukaryotic cell. For example the target polynucleotide can be a polynucleotide residing in the nucleus of the eukaryotic cell. The target polynucleotide can be a sequence coding a gene product e.g. a protein or a non coding sequence e.g. a regulatory polynucleotide or a junk DNA .

Examples of target polynucleotides include a sequence associated with a signaling biochemical pathway e.g. a signaling biochemical pathway associated gene or polynucleotide. Examples of target polynucleotides include a disease associated gene or polynucleotide. A disease associated gene or polynucleotide refers to any gene or polynucleotide which is yielding transcription or translation products at an abnormal level or in an abnormal form in cells derived from a disease affected tissues compared with tissues or cells of a non disease control. It may be a gene that becomes expressed at an abnormally high level it may be a gene that becomes expressed at an abnormally low level where the altered expression correlates with the occurrence and or progression of the disease. A disease associated gene also refers to a gene possessing mutation s or genetic variation that is directly responsible or is in linkage disequilibrium with a gene s that is responsible for the etiology of a disease. The transcribed or translated products may be known or unknown and may be at a normal or abnormal level.

The target polynucleotide of a CRISPR complex can be any polynucleotide endogenous or exogenous to the eukaryotic cell. For example the target polynucleotide can be a polynucleotide residing in the nucleus of the eukaryotic cell. The target polynucleotide can be a sequence coding a gene product e.g. a protein or a non coding sequence e.g. a regulatory polynucleotide or a junk DNA .

The target polynucleotide of a CRISPR complex may include a number of disease associated genes and polynucleotides as well as signaling biochemical pathway associated genes and polynucleotides as listed in U.S. provisional patent applications 61 736 527 and 61 748 427 respectively both entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR SEQUENCE MANIPULATION filed on Dec. 12 2012 and Jan. 2 2013 respectively the contents of all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Examples of target polynucleotides include a sequence associated with a signaling biochemical pathway e.g. a signaling biochemical pathway associated gene or polynucleotide. Examples of target polynucleotides include a disease associated gene or polynucleotide. A disease associated gene or polynucleotide refers to any gene or polynucleotide which is yielding transcription or translation products at an abnormal level or in an abnormal form in cells derived from a disease affected tissues compared with tissues or cells of a non disease control. It may be a gene that becomes expressed at an abnormally high level it may be a gene that becomes expressed at an abnormally low level where the altered expression correlates with the occurrence and or progression of the disease. A disease associated gene also refers to a gene possessing mutation s or genetic variation that is directly responsible or is in linkage disequilibrium with a gene s that is responsible for the etiology of a disease. The transcribed or translated products may be known or unknown and may be at a normal or abnormal level.

Examples of disease associated genes and polynucleotides are available from McKusick Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine Johns Hopkins University Baltimore Md. and National Center for Biotechnology Information National Library of Medicine Bethesda Md. available on the World Wide Web.

Examples of disease associated genes and polynucleotides are listed in Tables A and B. Disease specific information is available from McKusick Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine Johns Hopkins University Baltimore Md. and National Center for Biotechnology Information. National Library of Medicine Bethesda Md. available on the World Wide Web. Examples of signaling biochemical pathway associated genes and polynucleotides are listed in Table C.

Mutations in these genes and pathways can result in production of improper proteins or proteins in improper amounts which affect function. Further examples of genes diseases and proteins are hereby incorporated by reference from U.S. Provisional applications 61 736 527 filed on Dec. 12 2012 and 61 748 427 filed on Jan. 2 2013. Such genes proteins and pathways may be the target polynucleotide of a CRISPR complex.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to methods and compositions related to knocking out genes amplifying genes and repairing particular mutations associated with DNA repeat instability and neurological disorders Robert D. Wells Tetsuo Ashizawa Genetic Instabilities and Neurological Diseases Second Edition Academic Press. Oct. 13 2011 Medical . Specific aspects of tandem repeat sequences have been found to be responsible for more than twenty human diseases New insights into repeat instability role of RNA DNA hybrids. McIvor E I Polak U Napierala M. RNA Biol. 2010 September October 7 5 551 8 . The CRISPR Cas system may be harnessed to correct these defects of genomic instability.

A further aspect of the invention relates to utilizing the CRISPR Cas system for correcting defects in the EMP2A and EMP2B genes that have been identified to be associated with Lafora disease. Lafora disease is an autosomal recessive condition which is characterized by progressive myoclonus epilepsy which may start as epileptic seizures in adolescence. A few cases of the disease may be caused by mutations in genes yet to be identified. The disease causes seizures muscle spasms difficulty walking dementia and eventually death. There is currently no therapy that has proven effective against disease progression. Other genetic abnormalities associated with epilepsy may also be targeted by the CRISPR Cas system and the underlying genetics is further described in Genetics of Epilepsy and Genetic Epilepsies edited by Giuliano Avanzini Jeffrey L. Noebels Mariani Foundation Paediatric Neurology 20 2009 .

In yet another aspect of the invention the CRISPR Cas system may be used to correct ocular defects that arise from several genetic mutations further described in Genetic Diseases of the Eye Second Edition edited by Elias I. Traboulsi Oxford University Press 2012.

Several further aspects of the invention relate to correcting defects associated with a wide range of genetic diseases which are further described on the website of the National Institutes of Health under the topic subsection Genetic Disorders website at health.nih.gov topic GeneticDisorders . The genetic brain diseases may include but are not limited to Adrenoleukodystrophy Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum Aicardi Syndrome Alpers Disease Alzheimer s Disease Barth Syndrome Batten Disease CADASIL Cerebellar Degeneration Fabry s Disease Gerstmann Straussler Scheinker Disease Huntington s Disease and other Triplet Repeat Disorders Leigh s Disease Lesch Nyhan Syndrome Menkes Disease Mitochondrial Myopathies and NINDS Colpocephaly. These diseases are further described on the website of the National Institutes of Health under the subsection Genetic Brain Disorders.

In some embodiments the condition may be neoplasia. In some embodiments where the condition is neoplasia the genes to be targeted are any of those listed in Table A in this case PTEN asn so forth . In some embodiments the condition may be Age related Macular Degeneration. In some embodiments the condition may be a Schizophrenic Disorder. In some embodiments the condition may be a Trinucleotide Repeat Disorder. In some embodiments the condition may be Fragile X Syndrome. In some embodiments the condition may be a Secretase Related Disorder. In some embodiments the condition may be a Prion related disorder. In some embodiments the condition may be ALS. In some embodiments the condition may be a drug addiction. In some embodiments the condition may be Autism. In some embodiments the condition may be Alzheimer s Disease. In some embodiments the condition may be inflammation. In some embodiments the condition may be Parkinson s Disease.

Examples of proteins associated with Parkinson s disease include but are not limited to synuclein DJ 1 LRRK2 PINK1 Parkin UCHL1 Synphilin 1 and NURR1.

Examples of inflammation related proteins may include the monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 MCP1 encoded by the Ccr2 gene the C C chemokine receptor type 5 CCR5 encoded by the Ccr5 gene the IgG receptor IIB FCGR2b also termed CD32 encoded by the Fcgr2b gene or the Fc epsilon R1g FCER1g protein encoded by the Fcer1g gene for example.

Examples of cardiovascular diseases associated proteins may include IL1B interleukin 1 beta XDH xanthine dehydrogenase TP53 tumor protein p53 PTGIS prostaglandin 12 prostacyclin synthase MB myoglobin IL4 interleukin 4 ANGPT1 angiopoietin 1 ABCG8 ATP binding cassette sub family G WHITE member 8 or CTSK cathepsin K for example.

Examples of Alzheimer s disease associated proteins may include the very low density lipoprotein receptor protein VLDLR encoded by the VLDLR gene the ubiquitin like modifier activating enzyme 1 UBA1 encoded by the UBA1 gene or the NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 catalytic subunit protein UBE1C encoded by the UBA3 gene for example.

Examples of proteins associated Autism Spectrum Disorder may include the benzodiazapine receptor peripheral associated protein 1 BZRAP1 encoded by the BZRAP1 gene the AF4 FMR2 family member 2 protein AFF2 encoded by the AFF2 gene also termed MFR2 the fragile X mental retardation autosomal homolog 1 protein FXR1 encoded by the FXR1 gene or the fragile X mental retardation autosomal homolog 2 protein FXR2 encoded by the FXR2 gene for example.

Examples of proteins associated Macular Degeneration may include the ATP binding cassette sub family A ABC1 member 4 protein ABCA4 encoded by the ABCR gene the apolipoprotein E protein APOE encoded by the APOE gene or the chemokine C C motif Ligand 2 protein CCL2 encoded by the CCL2 gene for example.

Examples of proteins associated Schizophrenia may include NRG1 ErbB4 CPLX1 TPH1 TPH2 NRXN1 GSK3A BDNF DISC1 GSK3B and combinations thereof.

Examples of proteins involved in tumor suppression may include ATM ataxia telangiectasia mutated ATR ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor ERBB2 v erb b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 2 ERBB3 v erb b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 3 ERBB4 v erb b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 4 Notch 1 Notch2 Notch 3 or Notch 4 for example.

Examples of proteins associated with a secretase disorder may include PSENEN presenilin enhancer 2 homolog CTSB cathepsin B PSEN1 presenilin 1 APP amyloid beta A4 precursor protein APH1B anterior pharynx defective I homolog B PSEN2 presenilin 2 Alzheimer disease 4 or BACE1 beta site APP cleaving enzyme 1 for example.

Examples of proteins associated with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis may include SOD1 superoxide dismutase 1 ALS2 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2 FUS fused in sarcoma TARDBP TAR DNA binding protein . VAGFA vascular endothelial growth factor A VAGFB vascular endothelial growth factor B and VAGFC vascular endothelial growth factor C and any combination thereof.

Examples of proteins associated with prion diseases may include SOD1 superoxide dismutase 1 ALS2 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2 FUS fused in sarcoma TARDBP TAR DNA binding protein VAGFA vascular endothelial growth factor A VAGFB vascular endothelial growth factor B and VAGFC vascular endothelial growth factor C and any combination thereof.

Examples of proteins related to neurodegenerative conditions in prion disorders may include A2M Alpha 2 Macroglobulin AATF Apoptosis antagonizing transcription factor ACPP Acid phosphatase prostate ACTA2 Actin alpha 2 smooth muscle aorta ADAM22 ADAM metallopeptidase domain ADORA3 Adenosine A3 receptor or ADRA1D Alpha 1D adrenergic receptor for Alpha 1D adrenoreceptor for example.

Examples of proteins associated with Immunodeficiency may include A2M alpha 2 macroglobulin AANAT arylalkylamine N acetyltransferase ABCA1 ATP binding cassette sub family A ABC1 member 1 ABCA2 ATP binding cassette sub family A ABC1 member 2 or ABCA3 ATP binding cassette sub family A ABC1 member 3 for example.

Examples of proteins associated with Trinucleotide Repeat Disorders include AR androgen receptor FMR1 fragile X mental retardation 1 HTT huntingtin or DMPK dystrophia myotonica protein kinase FXN frataxin ATXN2 ataxin 2 for example.

Examples of proteins associated with Neurotransmission Disorders include SST somatostatin NOS1 nitric oxide synthase 1 neuronal ADRA2A adrenergic alpha 2A receptor ADRA2C adrenergic alpha 2C receptor TACR1 tachykinin receptor 1 or HTR2c 5 hydroxytryptamine serotonin receptor 2C for example.

Examples of neurodevelopmental associated sequences include A2BPI ataxin 2 binding protein 1 AADAT aminoadipate aminotransferase AANAT arylalkylamine N acetyltransferase ABAT 4 aminobutyrate aminotransferase ABCA1 ATP binding cassette sub family A ABC1 member 1 or ABCA13 ATP binding cassette sub family A ABC1 member 13 for example.

Further examples of preferred conditions treatable with the present system include may be selected from Aicardi Gouti res Syndrome Alexander Disease Allan Herndon Dudley Syndrome POLG Related Disorders Alpha Mannosidosis Type II and III Alstr m Syndrome Angelman Syndrome Ataxia Telangiectasia Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinoses Beta Thalassemia Bilateral Optic Atrophy and Infantile Optic Atrophy Type 1 Retinoblastoma bilateral Canavan Disease Cerebrooculofacioskeletal Syndrome 1 COFS1 Cerebrotendinous Xanthomatosis Cornelia de Lange Syndrome MAPT Related Disorders Genetic Prion Diseases Dravet Syndrome Early Onset Familial Alzheimer Disease Friedreich Ataxia FRDA Fryns Syndrome Fucosidosis Fukuyama Congenital Muscular Dystrophy Galactosialidosis Gaucher Disease Organic Acidemias Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis Hutchinson Gilford Progeria Syndrome Mucolipidosis II Infantile Free Sialic Acid Storage Disease PLA2G6 Associated Neurodegeneration Jervell and Lange Nielsen Syndrome Junctional Epidermolysis Bullosa Huntington Disease Krabbe Disease Infantile Mitochondrial DNA Associated Leigh Syndrome and NARP Lesch Nyhan Syndrome LIS1 Associated Lissencephaly Lowe Syndrome Maple Syrup Urine Disease MECP2 Duplication Syndrome ATP7A Related Copper Transport Disorders LAMA2 Related Muscular Dystrophy Arylsulfatase A Deficiency Mucopolysaccharidosis Types I II or III Peroxisome Biogenesis Disorders Zellweger Syndrome Spectrum Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation Disorders Acid Sphingomyelinase Deficiency Niemann Pick Disease Type C Glycine Encephalopathy ARX Related Disorders Urea Cycle Disorders COL1A1 2 Related Osteogenesis Imperfecta Mitochondrial DNA Deletion Syndromes PLP1 Related Disorders Perry Syndrome Phelan McDermid Syndrome Glycogen Storage Disease Type II Pompe Disease Infantile MAPT Related Disorders MECP2 Related Disorders Rhizomelic Chondrodysplasia Punctata Type 1 Roberts Syndrome Sandhoff Disease Schindler Disease Type 1 Adenosine Deaminase Deficiency Smith Lemli Opitz Syndrome Spinal Muscular Atrophy Infantile Onset Spinocerebellar Ataxia Hexosaminidase A Deficiency Thanatophoric Dysplasia Type 1 Collagen Type VI Related Disorders Usher Syndrome Type I Congenital Muscular Dystrophy Wolf Hirschhorn Syndrome Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency and Xeroderma Pigmentosum.

As will be apparent it is envisaged that the present system can be used to target any polynucleotide sequence of interest. Some examples of conditions or diseases that might be usefully treated using the present system are included in the Tables above and examples of genes currently associated with those conditions are also provided there. However the genes exemplified are not exhaustive.

The following examples are given for the purpose of illustrating various embodiments of the invention and are not meant to limit the present invention in any fashion. The present examples along with the methods described herein are presently representative of preferred embodiments are exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the claims will occur to those skilled in the art.

Applicants conducted a Metagenomic search for a Cas9 with small molecular weight. Most Cas9 orthologs are fairly large. Many known Cas9 orthologs are large and contain more than 1300 amino acids. For example the SpCas9 is around 1368 aa long which is too large to be easily packaged into viral vectors for delivery. A graph representing the length distribution of Cas9 homologs is shown in The graph is generated from sequences deposited in GenBank. Some of the sequences may have been mis annotated and therefore the exact frequency for each length may not necessarily be accurate. Nevertheless it provides a glimpse at distribution of Cas9 proteins and suggest that there are shorter Cas9 homologs.

Through computational analysis Applicants found that in the bacterial strain there are two Cas9 proteins with less than 1000 amino acids. The sequence for one Cas9 from is presented below. At this length CjCas9 can be easily packaged into AAV lentiviruses Adenoviruses and other viral vectors for robust delivery into primary cells and in vivo animal models. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the Cas9 protein from is used.

The wild type CRISPR Cas system is an adaptive immune mechanism against invading exogenous DNA employed by diverse species across bacteria and archaea. The type II CRISPR Cas system consists of a set of genes encoding proteins responsible for the acquisition of foreign DNA into the CRISPR locus as well as a set of genes encoding the execution of the DNA cleavage mechanism these include the DNA nuclease Cas9 a non coding transactivating cr RNA tracrRNA and an array of foreign DNA derived spacers flanked by direct repeats crRNAs . Upon maturation by Cas9 the tracRNA and crRNA duplex guide the Cas9 nuclease to a target DNA sequence specified by the spacer guide sequences and mediates double stranded breaks in the DNA near a short sequence motif in the target DNA that is required for cleavage and specific to each CRISPR Cas system. The type II CRISPR Cas systems are found throughout the bacterial kingdom and highly diverse in Cas9 protein sequence and size tracrRNA and crRNA direct repeat sequence genome organization of these elements and the motif requirement for target cleavage. One species may have multiple distinct CRISPR Cas systems.

Applicants evaluated 207 putative Cas9s from bacterial species identified based on sequence homology to known Cas9s and structures orthologous to known subdomains including the HNH endonuclease domain and the RuvC endonuclease domains information from the Eugene Koonin and Kira Makarova . Phylogenetic analysis based on the protein sequence conservation of this set revealed five families of Cas9s including three groups of large Cas9s 1400 amino acids and two of small Cas9s 1100 amino acids FIGS. and A F .

In some embodiments the tracr mate sequences or the direct repeats are either downloaded from the CRISPRs database or identified in silico by searching for repetitive motifs that are 1. found in a 2 kb window of genomic sequence flanking the type II CRISPR locus 2. span from 20 to 50 bp and 3. interspaced by 20 to 50 bp. In some embodiments 2 of these criteria may be used for instance 1 and 2 2 and 3 or 1 and 3. In some embodiments all 3 criteria may be used. In some embodiments candidate tracrRNA are subsequently predicted by 1. sequence homology to direct repeats motif search in Geneious with up to 18 bp mismatches 2. presence of a predicted Rho independent transcriptional terminator in direction of transcription and 3. stable hairpin secondary structure between tracrRNA and direct repeat. In some embodiments 2 of these criteria may be used for instance 1 and 2 2 and 3 or 1 and 3. In some embodiments all 3 criteria may be used. In some embodiments chimeric synthetic guide RNAs sgRNAs designs incorporate at least 12 bp of duplex structure between the direct repeat and tracrRNA.

The list of the human codon optimized Cas9 ortholog sequences to pair with the chimeric RNAs provided in A J is provided in A O. Applicants have also shown that the Cas9 orthologs can cleave their targets in in vitro cleavage assays . The CRISPR loci in some of these families is depicted in . The corresponding guide RNA sequences are shown in . Applicants systematically analyzed the genomic DNA sequence within 2 kb of the Cas9 proteins using custom computational analysis code and identified direct repeats ranging from 35 bp to 50 bp with intervening spacers ranging from 29 bp to 35 bp. Based on the direct repeat sequence Applicants computationally searched for tracrRNA candidate sequences with the following criteria outside the crRNA array but containing high degree of homology to direct repeats as required for direct repeat tracrRNA base pairing custom computational analysis outside the coding regions of the protein components containing Rho independent transcriptional termination signals 60 bp 120 bp downstream from region of homology from with direct repeats and co folding with direct repeat to form a duplex followed by two or more hairpin structures in the distal end of tracrRNA sequence. Based on these prediction criteria Applicants selected an initial set of 18 Cas9 proteins and their uniquely associated direct repeats and tracrRNAs distributed across all five Cas9 families. Applicants further generated a set of 18 chimeric RNA structures that preserved the sequence and secondary structures of the native direct repeat tracrRNA duplex while shortening the region of base pairing and fusing the two RNA elements through an artificial loop .

Example of a human codon optimized sequence i.e. being optimized for expression in humans sequence SaCas9 is provided below

Applicants analyzed Cas9 orthologs to identify the relevant PAM sequences and the corresponding chimeric guide RNA as indicated in . This expanded set of PAMs provides broader targeting across the genome and also significantly increases the number of unique target sites and provides potential for identifying novel Cas9s with increased levels of specificity in the genome. Applicants determined the PAM for subspecies Cas9 to be NNGRR . subspecies Cas9 is also known as SaCas9. provides SaCas9 single or multiple vector designs.

Further work examining the thermodynamics and in vivo stability of sgRNA DNA duplexes will likely yield additional predictive power for off target activity while exploration of SpCas9 mutants and orthologs may yield novel variants with improved specificity. The specificity of Cas9 orthologs can be further evaluated by testing the ability of each Cas9 to tolerate mismatches between the guide RNA and its DNA target.

In this example. Applicants show that the following mutations can convert SpCas9 into a nicking enzyme D10A E762A H840A N854A N863A D986A.

Applicants provide sequences showing where the mutation points are located within the SpCas9 gene . Applicants also show that the nickases are still able to mediate homologous recombination. Furthermore. SpCas9 with these mutations individually reduce the level of double strand break. Cas9 orthologs all share the general organization of 3 4 RuvC domains and a HNH domain . The 5 most RuvC domain cleaves the non complementary strand and the HNH domain cleaves the complementary strand. All notations are in reference to the guide sequence.

The catalytic residue in the 5 RuvC domain is identified through homology comparison of the Cas9 of interest with other Cas9 orthologs from type II CRISPR locus CRISPR locus 1 CRISPR locus 3 and type II CRISPR locus and the conserved Asp residue is mutated to alanine to convert Cas9 into a complementary strand nicking enzyme. Similarly the conserved His and Asn residues in the HNH domains are mutated to Alanine to convert Cas9 into a non complementary strand nicking enzyme.

For enhanced function or to develop new functions Applicants generate chimeric Cas9 proteins by combining fragments from different Cas9 orthologs.

For instance Applicants fused the N term of St1Cas9 fragment from this protein is in bold with C term of SpCas9 fragment from this protein is underlined .

Applicants have also generated Sp St3 chimeric proteins and have shown in vitro cleavage by SpCas9 St3Cas9 Sp St3 chimera and St3 Sp chimera .

While certain current AAV vectors may accommodate up to 4300 bases of inserted DNA as an upper limit or a packaging limit AAV can have of 4.5 or 4.75 KB inserted DNA. This means that DNA encoding a Cas9 enzyme as well as a promoter and transcription terminator have to be all fit into the same viral vector. Constructs larger than 4.5 or 4.75 KB will lead to significantly reduced virus production. SpCas9 is quite large the gene itself is over 4.1 kb which makes it difficult for packing into AAV. Therefore embodiments of the invention include utilizing orthologs of Cas9 that are shorter. For example 

Method 1 Applicants deliver Cas9 and guide RNA using a vector that expresses Cas9 under the control of a constitutive promoter such as Hsp70A Rbc S2 or Beta2 tubulin.

Method 2 Applicants deliver Cas9 and T7 polymerase using vectors that expresses Cas9 and T7 polymerase under the control of a constitutive promoter such as Hsp70A Rbc S2 or Beta2 tubulin. Guide RNA will be delivered using a vector containing T7 promoter driving the guide RNA.

Method 3 Applicants deliver Cas9 mRNA and in vitro transcribed guide RNA to algae cells. RNA can be in vitro transcribed. Cas9 mRNA will consist of the coding region for Cas9 as well as 3 UTR from Cop1 to ensure stabilization of the Cas9 mRNA.

Sequence for a cassette driving the expression of Cas9 under the control of beta 2 tubulin promoter followed by the 3 UTR of Cop1.

Sequence for a cassette driving the expression of T7 polymerase under the control of beta 2 tubulin promoter followed by the 3 UTR of Cop1 

Also Applicants generate a line of that expresses Cas9 constitutively. This can be done by using pChlamy1 linearized using PvuI and selecting for hygromycin resistant colonies. Sequence for pChlamy1 containing Cas9 is below. In this way to achieve gene knockout one simply needs to deliver RNA for the guideRNA. For homologous recombination Applicants deliver guideRNA as well as a linearized homologous recombination template.

For all modified cells Applicants use PCR SURVEYOR nuclease assay and DNA sequencing to verify successful modification.

The project started as Applicants wanted to further explore the diversity of the type II CRISPR Cas system following the identification of Sp and St CRISPR Cas system as a functional genome engineering tool in mammalian cells.

By defining new functional type II CRISPR Cas systems for application in mammalian cells Applicants will potentially be able to find 

 2 CRISPR Cas system with different Protospacer Adjacent Motif PAM that allows the targeting of broader range of genomic loci

 3 CRISPR Cas system with smaller size so Applicants could deliver them in vivo in a single vector with mammalian viral delivery system such as adeno associated virus AAV vectors that has a packaging size limit the current Sp or St system exceed this limit of 4.7 kb 

Applicants tested a new type II CRISPR Cas system in Sa that works in vitro in dsDNA cleavage assay and identified a putative PAM of NNGRRT. The components of this system are a Cas9 protein from Sa a guide CRISPR RNA with direct repeats DR from Sa that will form a functional guide RNA complex with tracrRNA from Sa. This three component system is similar to all other type II CRISPR Cas systems. Hence Applicants designed a two component system where Applicants fused the Sa tracrRNA to the Sa guide CRISPR RNA via a short stem loop to form a chimeric guide RNA exactly as Applicants did with the Sp CRISPR Cas system. This chimeric guide RNA was able to support cleavage of dsDNA in vitro. Therefore Applicants decided to clone the full two component system cas9 and the chimeric guide RNA into an AAV vector to test its functionality in living organisms.

Applicants chose the AAV system because it is a non integrating ssDNA based non immunogenic mammalian virus that has broad spectrum of tropism in different tissues organs depending on the serotype that has been shown to be safe for in vivo application and also support long term expression of transgene in living organisms.

Design of the initial AAV vector has 1 CM V promoter driving SaCas9 protein with a single NLS and a HA epitope tag. 2 human U6 promoter driving the chimeric RNA. These are placed in between two Inverted Terminal Repeats ITRs from the most well studied AAV serotype 2 that serve as the viral packaging signal.

The PAM sequence test on endogenous mammalian genome is as follows SaCas9 target spacers were selected across multiple genes to cover different potential PAM sequences. Different spacers were cloned into U6 sgRNA single guide RNA expression dsDNA cassette U6 sgRNA expression dsDNA cassette were co transfected into mammalian cells lines 293FT for human targets N2a and Hepa for mouse targets . 72 hours following transfection all genomic DNA were extracted and subjected to surveyor nuclease assay. Run through TBE Page Gel to detect genomic cleavage. Quantify genomic DNA cleavage efficiency and plot.

Results from the PAM test are shown in . A comprehensive test of over 100 targets identified that the PAM for SaCas9 could be described as NNGRR but not the NNGRRT as indicated earlier .

PAM Test Summary 1 NNGRR for general SaCas9 PAM helpful for design new targets 2 Testing double nickase with new targets 3 NNGRG may be a more potent PAM.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

