---

title: Location-based device automation
abstract: This disclosure describes systems, methods, and computer program products for identifying a presence of a plurality of mobile devices at a geographic location; determining an entertainment option to be played at the geographic location based on the identified plurality of mobile devices; and based on the determination, selecting an entertainment option to be played at the geographic location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647850&OS=09647850&RS=09647850
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09647850
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141117
---
This application is a divisional and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 121 of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 493 823 filed Jun. 11 2012 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Devices e.g. home appliances can be automated based on various settings. For example home lighting can be configured to activate or deactivate depending on a day and time.

This disclosure describes systems methods and computer program products for location based device automation. Devices e.g. lights appliances and climate control systems associated with a particular geographic location can be automated based on a geographic location of one or more mobile devices. As described in this specification a particular geographic location can be a room office building residence or any other structure that is capable of housing devices. Automation of a device can include activating or deactivating the device or adjusting one or more settings of the device.

Automation modes e.g. a home mode an away mode or a vacation mode can be used to adjust automation settings for one or more devices. A particular automation mode can be selected to automate e.g. adjust the settings one or more devices using the configured automation settings for the particular automation mode. An automation setting can indicate whether a particular device should be active or inactive. An automation setting can also indicate a particular setting for the particular device e.g. a thermostat setting a volume level or a light dimming setting .

A user profile can be associated with a mobile device and can be used to personalize automation of one or more devices. The user profile can be used to select a preferred automation mode and or can personalize automation of individual devices based on preferences stored in the user profile. Automation modes for a particular geographic location can be configured differently based on a presence of multiple mobile devices that are associated with the particular geographic location.

In some implementations a method comprises determining a distance of a mobile device from a location the mobile device being associated with the location determining a duration that the mobile device is located beyond a threshold distance from the location and selecting an automation mode for the location based in part on the determined distance and duration of the mobile device.

In some implementations a system comprises one or more processors and memory coupled to the one or more processors. The memory is configured for storing instructions which when executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform operations. The operations comprise determining a distance of a mobile device from a particular geographic location the mobile device being associated with the particular geographic location determining a duration that the mobile device is located beyond a threshold distance from the location and selecting an automation mode for the location based in part on the determined distance and duration of the mobile device. Other implementations are disclosed that are directed to methods and systems.

In some implementations a method comprises identifying a presence of a plurality of mobile devices at a particular geographic location determining an entertainment option to be played at the particular geographic location based on the identified plurality of mobile devices and based on the determination selecting an entertainment option to be played at the particular geographic location.

In some implementations a system comprises one or more processors and memory coupled to the one or more processors. The memory is configured for storing instructions which when executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform operations. The operations comprise identifying a presence of a plurality of mobile devices at a particular geographic location determining an entertainment option to be played at the particular geographic location based on the identified plurality of mobile devices and based on the determination selecting an entertainment option to be played at the particular geographic location.

Particular implementations of the location based home automation application disclosed herein provide one or more of the following advantages. Devices located in a particular geographic location can be automated based in part on a distance of a mobile device from that particular geographic location. Devices e.g. lighting systems appliances and climate control system can be automated using an automation mode e.g. home away or vacation or preferred automation settings of individual devices based in part on a distance of a mobile device. Automation modes can be personalized using one or more user profiles associated with the mobile device. Detection of multiple mobile devices at a particular geographic location including mobile devices that are not associated with the particular geographic location can be used to adjust existing automation modes.

The details of the disclosed implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The location based automation system can communicate with a communications system to determine the geographic locations of mobile devices and . The communications system can interact with mobile devices and over one or more wired or wireless networks e.g. WI FI cellular BLUETOOTH the Internet. For example the communications system can send messages to the mobile devices and to request a geographic location of the mobile device. The communications system can also receive messages from the mobile devices and providing a geographic location of the mobile device. In some implementations the location based automation system and the communications system can be part of the same device e.g. a personal computer . In one example configuration the communications system can be a wireless transceiver coupled to or integrated with the personal computer and the location based automation system can be implemented by software or firmware instructions that are executed by one or more processors of the personal computer. In some implementations the location based automation system and communications system can be part of a network device or appliance including but not limited to a router or hub.

The location based automation system can interact with one or more device control systems e.g. an entertainment control system a climate control system an appliance control system a lighting control system and a security control system . The device control systems can include hardware or software that is configured to obtain current device settings or determine the current state of a controlled device. For example device hardware and or software can indicate whether particular devices are active or inactive or can provide one or more current settings for the particular devices. The location based automation system can use the device control systems to obtain device states and to set automation modes for the devices.

In some implementations the device control systems can be integrated with the devices they are controlling or be part of a separate device or devices. For example in some implementations the device control systems can be included in an X10 controller or module which is described in the publicly available X10 standard. X10 is an international and open industry standard for communication among electronic devices used for home automation also known as domotics. X10 primarily uses power line wiring for signaling and control where the signals involve brief radio frequency bursts representing digital information. A wireless radio based protocol transport is also defined by the X10 specification. Other known domotic standards can be used to implement the device control systems including but not limited to include INSTEON KNX SYSTEM BOX LONWORKS CRESTRON C BUS UNIVERSAL POWERLINE BUS UPB UPNP ZIGBEE and Z WAVE.

The entertainment control system can be used to configure automation settings for home theater systems and music systems. In some implementations the entertainment control system can be used to automate the type of content that is played e.g. music or movies based on the presence of particular mobile devices or . For example a particular music playlist can be played through a home theatre system or music system when a particular mobile device or is detected within a specified distance of a particular geographic location.

In some implementations when a particular geographic location has multi room speaker systems the entertainment control system can be used to direct sound to a particular speaker system based on where a mobile device or is located. For example music can be played through speakers that are located in a living room when a particular mobile device or is located in the living room. In a case where the particular mobile device or is relocated to a new area e.g. a backyard the music being played through speakers that are located in the living room can be routed to speakers that are located in the new area e.g. the backyard .

The climate control system can be used to configure automation settings for climate control systems e.g. heating and cooling at a location. For example temperature settings for a location e.g. a pool spa home office or individual rooms in a home or office can be adjusted based on a presence of particular mobile devices or .

The appliance control system can be used to configure automation settings for appliances e.g. microwave ovens coffee machines washing machines televisions and water heaters based on a presence of particular mobile devices or .

The lighting control system can be used to configure automation settings for one or more lights at a location. For example the lighting control system can activate or deactivate lights or adjust light settings e.g. dimming a light in one or more areas e.g. rooms at the location based on a presence of particular mobile devices or . The lighting control system can also automate lights based on various inputs e.g. time day date and or month .

In some implementations when a particular mobile device or has been misplaced in a particular geographic location the lighting control system can be configured to activate lights in a room in which the particular mobile device was last detected. The lighting control system can also deactivate lights in the remaining rooms. A user of the mobile device or can instruct the location based automation system e.g. using a GUI interface to the location based automation system to locate the mobile device or .

The security control system can be used to configure automation settings for security systems associated with a particular geographic location based on a presence of particular mobile devices or . For example security systems can be deactivated based in part on a presence of particular mobile devices or can be activated based in part on a non presence of particular mobile devices. In some implementations the presence and non presence of mobile devices can be based on whether the mobile devices or are within a specified distance from the particular geographic location. In some implementations the activation and deactivation of security systems can be based in part on additional inputs e.g. time day date and or month .

The location based automation system can communicate with a user settings database to obtain user profiles associated with particular mobile devices and . The user profiles can be used to personalize automation of one or more devices at a location based on the presence of a particular mobile device or . The user profiles can be stored in the user settings database and or in the mobile devices and . For example a user of a particular mobile device can configure settings for one or more devices e.g. entertainment climate appliance lighting and security and the location based automation system can automate the one or more devices based on the configured settings when the particular mobile device is within a particular distance from the geographic location associated with the location based automation system .

In the example applications described above various technologies can be used to determine the current location of a mobile device or including short range communication technologies such as BLUETOOTH or Radio frequency Identification RFID tags. In some implementations the location of a mobile device can be determined using cellular position technologies e.g. using data received from cellular towers or WI FI positioning technologies e.g. trilateralization together with floor plan information or a map database and geocoding. If the mobile device is outdoors the GPS or other GNSS technologies can be used to determine location of a mobile device e.g. using data received from satellites . In some cases the current location of a mobile device or can be determined by the mobile device e.g. using cellular or WI FI position technologies. Alternatively the mobile device or can obtain its location from an external location service e.g. Skyhook.

In some implementations process can begin by determining the distance of a mobile device from a particular geographic location . For example the distance of a mobile device from a particular geographic location can be determined using the communications system as described in reference to .

In some implementations one or more geo fences can be placed around the geographic locations. A geo fence is a virtual perimeter for a real world geographic area. A geo fence can be dynamically generated as in a radius around a home or other point location. A geo fence can be a predefined set of boundaries like neighborhood boundaries. In some implementations when a location aware mobile device enters or exits a geo fence the mobile device can receive a notification from a location based service which can contain information about the location of the device. In other implementations the mobile device itself can determine when it has entered or exited a geo fence based on knowledge of its location e.g. using GPS cellular or WI FI positioning and geo fence boundaries which can be stored on the mobile device in for example user settings database .

The geo fence notice can be sent by the location based service to the mobile device or directly to the location based automation system over a wireless transmission medium e.g. WI FI Internet . If the notice is sent to the mobile device only or if the location of the mobile device computed by the mobile device then the mobile device can send the notification directly to the location based automation system using a wireless communication link and wireless transceiver on the mobile device and part of the communication system . The geofences can be circular or a polygon. If circular geofences are used then the user can specify the radius of each geofence. More than one geofence can be placed around a geographic location and each geofence can have a different radius that can be associated by the user with an automation mode as described in further detail below.

Each mobile device can be associated with a particular user profile which can be stored in the user settings database . Further each mobile device and or user profile can be paired with one or more particular geographic locations. In some implementations automation of devices at a particular geographic location is permitted for mobile devices that are paired with the particular geographic location. Thus for example lights and appliances at the particular geographic location can be automated when a paired mobile device is detected in proximity to the particular geographic location but not when unpaired e.g. unrecognized mobile devices are detected. These pairings can be stored in the user settings database .

The user profile can be used to configure automation settings for one or more devices at one or more particular geographic locations. For example a user can configure her user profile so that the temperature in a first location e.g. a home is set to 68 degrees and the temperature in a second location e.g. an office is set to 66 degrees.

Automation settings for a user profile can be configured using a mobile device associated with the user profile. The mobile device can present an automation settings interface e.g. a GUI interface that allows a user to configure automation settings for one or more devices at one or more particular geographic locations. The automation settings interface can also be used to configure distance settings for when a particular automation mode should be selected e.g. select home mode when the distance of the mobile device is within 100 feet of a particular geographic location .

Process can continue by selecting an automation mode for the particular geographic location based on a distance of the mobile device from the particular geographic location . In some implementations the process can select an automation mode e.g. home mode an away mode or a vacation mode based on how far away the mobile device is from the particular geographic location.

In some implementations the distance of the mobile device from a particular geographic location can be defined by the radius of a circular geofence. For example two circular geofences each having a different radii R R can be placed around a user s home where R R and the distance can be in feet meters miles or any other suitable unit of distance measure. When the distance of the mobile device less than or equal to R the location based automation system can enter a home mode and various automation actions associated with the home mode can be initiated according to the user profile. When the distance of the mobile device is between R and R the location based automation system can enter an away mode and various automation actions associated with the away mode can be initiated according to the user profile. When the distance of the mobile device is greater than R the location based automation system can enter a vacation mode and various automation actions associated with the vacation mode can be initiated according to the user profile.

Before entering a particular automation mode the location based automation system can also determine how long the mobile device has dwelled at a particular distance from the particular geographic location. For example if the location based automation system determines that the mobile device has exited the geo fence with radius R and has not re entered that geo fence within the last x hours e.g. 48 hours then the vacation mode can be activated.

Accordingly the dwell time of the mobile device inside or outside a geo fence can be used with geo fence crossing information exit or enter information to determine an automation mode for an environment. Once the automation mode is determined one or more device control systems in the environment can be placed into the automation mode according to a user profile.

An automation mode can be configured to automate e.g. adjust automation settings of one or more devices that are associated with the particular geographic location e.g. devices that are located in a particular home. An automation setting can indicate whether a particular device should be active or inactive. An automation setting can also indicate a configuration for the particular device e.g. a thermostat setting a volume level or a light dimming setting .

For example a home mode can be configured so that the climate at the particular geographic location is set at a certain temperature that certain lights are active in one or more rooms and that security systems at the particular geographic location are inactive. In some implementations the automation mode can be configured to automate e.g. adjust automation settings one or more devices based on a time of day day of the week date and or month. For example a home mode can be configured so that the climate at the particular geographic location is at one temperature between the hours of 6 am to 10 pm and at a different temperature between the hours of 10 01 pm to 5 59 am.

In another example an away mode can be configured so that the climate at the particular geographic location is maintained at a certain temperature that the doors and windows are locked that the lights are off and that security systems are active. A vacation mode can be configured so that climate control is inactive that the doors and windows are locked that the lights are off and that security systems are active.

In some implementations patterns of device usage can be monitored e.g. times when lights are active inactive and the patterns can be used in the automation of devices to mimic realistic activity. For example patterns of light usage can be monitored when mobile devices e.g. mobile devices of users that reside at the particular geographic location are present at the particular geographic location and the patterns can be reenacted when the vacation mode is selected thus giving the impression that the particular geographic region is occupied.

In some implementations the process can select an automation mode based in part on where the mobile device is located relative to one or more specified distances from the particular geographic location. An automation mode can also be selected based in part on a duration that the mobile device has been beyond a particular distance from the particular geographic location. For example the process can select the home mode when the mobile device is within 50 feet of the particular geographic location. Similarly the process can select the away mode when the mobile device distance exceeds 2 miles from the particular geographic location. Further the process can select the vacation mode when the mobile device distance exceeds 250 miles or if the mobile device distance exceeds 2 miles from the particular geographic location for a particular time period e.g. overnight.

In some implementations the process can monitor the mobile device distance and can adjust the automation mode as the mobile device approaches a particular geographic location. For example the process can determine that the mobile device is traveling toward the particular geographic location and in response to the determination can select the home mode.

In some implementations the process can measure the distance of the mobile device based on check ins on social networking sites by a user operating the mobile device. For example a user operating the mobile device may check in at a restaurant that is located 15 miles away from the particular geographic location. The process can determine that the restaurant at which the user checked in is located 15 miles from the particular geographic location and in response to the determination can select an appropriate automation mode based on that determination.

In some implementations the process can monitor the mobile device distance and can predict an estimated time of arrival of the user associated with the mobile device. The process can gradually adjust the automation mode of one or more devices e.g. a climate control system or a pool temperature so that the automation settings specified by the user associated with the mobile device are reached upon the user s arrival.

The process can evaluate additional inputs when selecting an automation mode based on the mobile device location. For example activity occurring at the particular geographic location e.g. opening of doors activating deactivating lights and appliances can be evaluated to determine whether a different automation mode should be selected e.g. whether the system should remain in home mode or switch to away mode . In another example the presence of a resident s keys within the particular geographic location can prevent selection of an away or vacation mode e.g. to prevent doors from being locked even though the mobile device is no longer within the particular geographic location .

In some implementations process can begin by detecting a plurality of mobile devices at a particular geographic location . The presence of mobile devices can be detected using for example the communications system as described in reference to .

Process can continue by adjusting automation modes of the one or more devices at the location . In some implementations automation of devices at a particular geographic location is permitted for mobile devices that are paired with the particular geographic location. Thus for example lights and appliances at the particular geographic location can be automated when a paired mobile device is detected in proximity to the particular geographic location but not when unpaired e.g. unrecognized mobile devices are detected.

In some implementations automation modes of the one or more devices can be adjusted to accommodate automation settings configured by users of multiple paired mobile devices. For example in a case where multiple mobile devices are identified in proximity to a particular geographic location automation settings for a selected automation made can be adjusted e.g. averaged to accommodate automation settings that were configured by users of the multiple mobile devices. Thus if a first user of a first mobile device has indicated a thermostat temperature preference of 65 degrees and a second user of a second mobile device has indicated a thermostat temperature preference of 70 degrees then the thermostat temperature can be averaged between the indicated preferences to set a thermostat temperature of 67.5 degrees.

In some implementations devices at a particular geographic location are automated based on detection of both paired and unpaired mobile devices at the particular geographic location. In such implementations automation modes of the one or more devices can be adjusted based on the presence of multiple mobile devices at the geographic locations. For example if threshold number e.g. 10 of mobile devices is detected at the particular geographic location then automation settings of devices at the particular geographic location can be adjusted to accommodate the increased number of occupants. In this example the thermostat temperature can be reduced the volume level of one or more music systems can be increased and certain lights can be dimmed activated or deactivated.

In some implementations mobile devices detected at the particular geographic location can be used to automate selection of entertainment options e.g. audio or video being played at the particular geographic location.

For example music playlists associated with the detected mobile devices can be compared to identify songs that are common e.g. songs stored on a threshold percentage of the detected mobile devices songs that are uncommon e.g. songs not stored on a threshold percentage of the detected mobile devices or songs that are popular among the detected mobile devices e.g. songs that have been rated at or above a threshold rating by a threshold percentage of users of the mobile devices using a music application or a social networking site . The identified songs can be played through a music system or home theater system located at the particular geographic location.

Similarly when determining which movie to play through a home theater system at the particular geographic location mobile devices detected at the particular geographic location can be compared to identify movies that have been viewed by or are popular e.g. movies that have been rated at or above a threshold rating by a threshold percentage of users of the mobile devices using a movie application or a social networking site among the detected mobile devices. The identified movies can be played through the home theater system located at the particular geographic location.

In the geofence is defined using a radius R and the geofence is defined using the radius R. The distance between radii R and R can be in feet meters miles or any other suitable unit of distance measure. A mobile device can be associated with the particular geographic location . Further automation of devices at the particular geographic location can be triggered based on a position of the mobile device relative to the geofences and .

For example when the distance of the mobile device less than or equal to R the location based automation system can enter a home mode and various automation actions associated with the home mode can be initiated according to the user profile. Similarly when the distance of the mobile device is between R and R the location based automation system can enter an away mode and various automation actions associated with the away mode can be initiated according to the user profile. Further when the distance of the mobile device is greater than R the location based automation system can enter a vacation mode and various automation actions associated with the vacation mode can be initiated according to the user profile.

The GUI includes a mobile device identifier field an environment field a radius field and a mode field . The mobile device identifier field can be configured to specify a particular mobile device e.g. Mobile Device and Mobile Device . Mobile devices can be specified using unique mobile device identifiers e.g. an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI number. Each mobile device can be associated with one or more geographic locations i.e. environments. The geographic locations can be specified in the environment field . In some implementations a particular geographic location e.g. Home can be subdivided into several environments e.g. Living room Backyard and Pool area .

Automation settings for particular mobile devices are specified in the radius field and the mode field . In particular the mode field can indicate a particular automation mode and the radius field can specify a distance. As a result the particular automation mode can be triggered when a particular mobile device is within the specified distance. The distance can be specified relative to a particular geographic location e.g. trigger an automation mode when a particular mobile device is less than or equal to a specified distance or as a bounded distance e.g. trigger an automation mode when a particular mobile device is between a first and second distance.

In some implementations both voice and data communications can be established over wireless network and access device . For example device can place and receive phone calls e.g. using voice over Internet Protocol VoIP protocols send and receive e mail messages e.g. using SMTP or Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 and retrieve electronic documents and or streams such as web pages photographs and videos over wireless network gateway and WAN e.g. using Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP . Likewise in some implementations device can place and receive phone calls send and receive e mail messages and retrieve electronic documents over access device and WAN . In some implementations device or can be physically connected to access device using one or more cables and access device can be a personal computer. In this configuration device or can be referred to as a tethered device.

Devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other devices or cell phones over the wireless network . Likewise devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the BLUETOOTH communication devices. Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

Devices or can communicate with service over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example service can be an online device automation application service that includes the features described in reference to .

Device or can also access other data and content over one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites Really Simple Syndication RSS feeds Web sites and developer networks can be accessed by device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser running on the device or

Devices and can exchange files over one or more wireless or wired networks either directly or through service .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example motion sensor light sensor and proximity sensor can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate orientation lighting and proximity functions of the device. For example in some implementations light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of touch surface . In some implementations motion sensor e.g. an accelerometer gyros can be utilized to detect movement and orientation of the device. Accordingly display objects or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape .

Other sensors can also be connected to peripherals interface such as a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

Location processor e.g. GPS receiver can be connected to peripherals interface to provide geo positioning. Electronic magnetometer e.g. an integrated circuit chip can also be connected to peripherals interface to provide data that can be used to determine the direction of magnetic North. Thus electronic magnetometer can be used as an electronic compass.

Camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more communication subsystems . Communication subsystem s can include one or more wireless communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. Wired communication system can include a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or some other wired port connection that can be used to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving or transmitting data. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s or medium s over which the device is intended to operate. For example a device may include wireless communication subsystems designed to operate over a global system for mobile communications GSM network a GPRS network an enhanced data GSM environment EDGE network 802.x communication networks e.g. WI FI WIMAX or 3G networks code division multiple access CDMA networks and a BLUETOOTH network. Communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. As another example the communication subsystems can allow the device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP protocol HTTP protocol UDP protocol and any other known protocol.

Audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and one or more microphones to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

I O subsystem can include touch controller and or other input controller s . Touch controller can be coupled to a touch surface . Touch surface and touch controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a number of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch surface . In one implementation touch surface can display virtual or soft buttons and a virtual keyboard which can be used as an input output device by the user.

Other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of speaker and or microphone .

In some implementations device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations device can include the functionality of an MP3 player and may include a pin connector for tethering to other devices. Other input output and control devices can be used.

Memory interface can be coupled to memory . Memory can include high speed random access memory or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . Memory can store operating system such as DARWIN RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VXWORKS. Operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations operating system can include a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

Memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers or servers. Communication instructions can also be used to select an operational mode or communication medium for use by the device based on a geographic location obtained by the GPS Navigation instructions of the device. Memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions and display GUIs described in reference to media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and instructions for a device automation application that is capable of configuring automation settings for one or more particular geographic locations as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions for facilitating other processes features and applications such as applications related to navigation social networking location based services or map displays.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. Memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

