---

title: Method and apparatus for managing use of an accessory
abstract: A system that incorporates the subject disclosure may include, for example, a system having a processor that performs operations including receiving from an accessory device a control signal for controlling a software application, determining that the control signal corresponds to a first action of a plurality of actions for controlling the software application, monitoring a frequency of usage of the first action, and presenting at the accessory device or a display device coupled to the accessory device a measure of the frequency of usage of the first action. Additional embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604147&OS=09604147&RS=09604147
owner: STEELSERIES ApS
number: 09604147
owner_city: Valby
owner_country: DK
publication_date: 20140314
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 792 519 filed Mar. 15 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It is common today for gamers to utilize more than one gaming accessory. This is especially true of gamers who play on line games or competitive games in a team or individual configuration. Gamers can have at their disposal accessories such as a keyboard a general purpose gaming pad a mouse a gaming console controller a headset to communicate with other players a joystick a computer console or other common gaming accessories.

A gamer can frequently use a combination of these accessories in a single game e.g. headset a keyboard and mouse . Efficient management and utilization of these accessories can frequently impact a gamer s ability to compete.

Accessory management can have utility in other disciplines which may not relate to gaming applications. Efficient use of accessories in these other disciplines can be important to other users.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments for managing accessories e.g. gaming accessories to improve a user s performance in controlling a software application e.g. a video game . Other embodiments are contemplated by the subject disclosure.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure can entail a method for receiving by a system comprising a processor from a gaming accessory a control signal for controlling a video game determining by the system that the control signal corresponds to a first gaming action of a plurality of gaming actions for controlling the video game tracking by the system a frequency of usage of the first gaming action and presenting by the system at the gaming accessory a measure of the frequency of usage of the first gaming action.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure can entail a machine readable storage medium comprising instructions wherein responsive to executing the instructions a processor performs operations including receiving from an accessory device a control signal for controlling a software application determining that the control signal corresponds to a first action of a plurality of actions for controlling the software application monitoring a frequency of usage of the first action and presenting at the accessory device or a display device coupled to the accessory device a measure of the frequency of usage of the first action.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure can entail an accessory device including a memory to store instructions and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor can perform operations including detecting a selection of an input function of the accessory device generating a control signal responsive to detecting the selection of the input function for controlling a software application determining that the control signal corresponds to a first action of a plurality of actions for controlling the software application determining a frequency of usage of the first action and presenting at the accessory device or a display device coupled to the accessory device a measure of the frequency of usage of the first action.

For illustration purposes the terms gaming console and computer will be used hence forth interchangeably with the term computing device with an understanding that a computing device may represent a number of other devices such as a server a tablet a smart phone and so on. Accordingly a computing device can represent any device with suitable computing resources to perform the methods described in the subject disclosure.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad coupled to a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth. The keypad can represent a numeric keypad and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device .

In an embodiment where the display utilizes touch sensitive technology a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features. As a touch screen display the communication device can be adapted to present a user interface with graphical user interface GUI elements that can be selected by a user with a touch of a finger. The touch screen display can be equipped with capacitive resistive or other forms of sensing technology to detect how much surface area of a user s finger has been placed on a portion of the touch screen display. This sensing information can be used to control the manipulation of the GUI elements.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes common audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard only in the proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation stereo or surround sound system . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images and performing image recognition therefrom.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable or rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. Alternatively the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port or by way of a power cord attached to a transformer that converts AC to DC power.

The proximity sensor can utilize proximity sensing technology such as a electromagnetic sensor a capacitive sensor an inductive sensor an image sensor or combinations thereof. The motion sensor can utilize motion sensing technology such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or other suitable motion sensing technology to detect movement of the communication device in three dimensional space. The orientation sensor can utilize orientation sensing technology such as a magnetometer to detect the orientation of the communication device North South West East combined orientations thereof in degrees minutes or other suitable orientation metrics .

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access points by common sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or a signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF . The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies.

The communication device as described herein can operate with more or less components described in to accommodate the implementation of devices described by the subject disclosure. These variant embodiments are contemplated by the subject disclosure.

In the present context an accessory can represent any type of device which can be communicatively coupled to the computing device or which can be an integral part of the computing device and which can control aspects of the OS and or a software application operating from the computing device . An accessory can represent for example a keyboard a touch screen display a gaming pad a gaming controller a mouse a joystick a microphone or a headset with a microphone just to mention a few.

In step the AMS application presents a GUI such as depicted in depicting operationally distinct accessories such as a keyboard and a gaming controller . The GUI presents the accessories in a scrollable section . One or more accessories can be selected by a user with a mouse pointer. In this illustration the keyboard and the gaming controller were selected for customization. Upon selecting the keyboard and the gaming controller from the scrollable window of section the AMS application presents the keyboard and the gaming controller in split windows respectively to assist the user during the customization process.

In step the AMS application can be programmed to detect a user selection of a particular software application such as a video game. This step can be the result of the user entering in a Quick Search field the name of a gaming application e.g. World of Warcraft or WoW . Upon identifying a gaming application the AMS application can retrieve in step from a remote or local database gaming application actions which can be presented in a scrollable section of the GUI represented as Actions . The actions can be tactical actions communication actions menu actions and movement actions which can be used to invoke and manage features of the gaming application.

The actions presented descriptively in section of the GUI can represent a sequence of accessory input functions which a user can stimulate by button depressions navigation or speech. For example depressing the left button on the mouse can represent the tactical action Reload while the simultaneous keyboard depressions Ctrl A can represent the tactical action Melee Attack . For ease of use the Actions section of the GUI is presented descriptively rather than by a description of the input function s of a particular accessory.

Any one of the Actions can be associated with one or more input functions of the accessories being customized in windows and by way of a drag and drop action or other customization options. For instance a user can select a Melee Attack by placing a mouse pointer over an iconic symbol associated with this action. Upon doing so the symbol can be highlighted to indicate to the user that the icon is selectable. At this point the user can select the icon by holding the left mouse button and drag the symbol to any of the input functions e.g. buttons of the keyboard or selectable options of the gaming controller to make an association with an input function of one of these accessories. Actions of one accessory can also be associated with another accessory that is of a different category. For example key depressions Ctrl A of the keyboard can be associated with one of the buttons of the gaming controller e.g. the left button .

In one embodiment a Melee Attack action can be associated by dragging this action to either the left button or right button of the gaming controller . Thus when the selected button is depressed the stimulus signal that is generated by the selected button of the gaming controller can be substituted by the AMS application with the Melee Attack action. In another embodiment the AMS application can be configured so that the Melee Action can be associated with a combination of key button presses e.g. simultaneous depression of the left and right buttons or a sequence of button depressions two rapid left button depressions followed by a right button depression .

In yet another embodiment the AMS application can be configured so that the Melee Action can be associated with movement of the gaming controller such as for example rapid movement or shaking of the gaming controller . In a further embodiment the AMS application can be adapted to make associations with two dimensional or three dimensional movements of the gaming controller according to a gaming venue state. For example suppose the player s avatar enters a fighter jet. In this gaming venue state moving the left navigation knob forward can be associated by the AMS application with controlling the throttle of the jet engines. Rapidly moving the gaming controller downward can represent release of munitions such as a bomb.

In a gaming venue state where the gamer s avatar has entered a building lifting of the gaming controller above a first displacement threshold can be associated with a rapid movement of the avatar up one floor. A second displacement threshold can be associated with a rapid movement of the avatar down one floor the opposite of the first displacement threshold. Alternatively the second displacement threshold could be associated with a different action such as jumping between buildings when the avatar is on the roof of a building.

The AMS application can monitor gaming venue states by analyzing captured images produced by the gaming application e.g. one or more still images of a tank or a video of an avatar entering a tank and or by receiving messages from the gaming application by way of an application programming interface API thereby enabling the AMS application to identify the occurrence of a particular gaming venue state.

At step the AMS application can also respond to a user selection of a profile. A profile can be a device profile or master profile invoked by selecting GUI button or each of which can identify the association of gaming actions with input functions of one or more accessories. If a profile selection is detected in step the AMS application can retrieve in step macro s and or prior associations defined by the profile. The actions and or macros defined in the profile can also be presented in step by the AMS application in the actions column of the GUI to modify existing profile associations or create new associations.

In step the AMS application can also respond to a user selection to create a macro. A macro in the present context can mean any actionable command which can be recorded by the AMS application. An actionable command can represent a sequence of stimuli generated by manipulating input functions of an accessory a combination of actions in the Action section an identification of a software application to be initiated by the OS of the computing device or any other recordable stimulus to initiate control or manipulate software applications. For instance a macro can represent a user entering the identity of a software application e.g. instant messaging tool to be initiated by the OS upon the AMS application detecting a speech command using speech recognition technology.

A macro can also represent recordable speech delivered by a microphone singly or in combination with a headset for detection by another software application through speech recognition or for delivery of the recorded speech to other parties. In yet another embodiment a macro can represent recordable navigation of an accessory such as a joystick of the gaming controller recordable selections of buttons of the gaming controller and so on. Macros can also be combinations of the above illustrations with selected actions from the Actions menu. Macros can be created from the GUI by selecting a Record Macro button . The macro can be given a name and category in user defined fields and .

Upon selecting the Record Macro button a macro can be generated by selection of input functions on an accessory e.g. Ctrl A speech navigation knob movements of the gaming controller etc. and or by manual entry in field e.g. typing the name and location of a software application to be initiated by an OS such as an instant messaging application keyboard entries such as Ctrl A etc. . Once the macro is created it can be tested by selecting button which can repeat the sequence specified in field . The clone button can be selected to replicate the macro sequence if desired. Fields can also present timing characteristics of the stimulation sequence in the macro with the ability to modify and thereby customize the timing of one or more stimulations in the stimulation sequence. Once the macro has been fully defined selection of button records the macro in step . The recording step can be combined with a step for adding the macro to the associable items Actions column thereby providing the user the means to associate the macro with input functions of the accessories e.g. one or more keys of the keyboard buttons of the gaming controller etc. .

In step the AMS application can respond to drag and drop associations of actions with input functions of the keyboard or the gaming controller . Associations can also be made based on the two or three dimensional movements of the gaming controller . If user input indicates that a user is performing an association the AMS application can proceed to step where it can determine if a profile has been identified in step to record the association s detected. If a profile has been identified the associations are recorded stored in the profile in step . If a profile has not been identified in step the AMS application can create a profile in step for recording the detected associations. In the same step the user can name the newly created profile as desired. The newly created profile can also be associated with one or more gaming software applications in step for future reference. The AMS application can also record in a profile in step associations based on gaming venue states. In this embodiment the same stimuli generated by the gaming controller can result in different substitutions based on the gaming venue state detected by the AMS application.

Referring back to step once the associations have been recorded in a profile the AMS application can determine in step which of the accessories shown illustratively in are programmable and available for programming. If the AMS application detects that an accessory e.g. keyboard gaming controller is communicatively coupled to the computing device and determines that the accessory is capable of performing stimulus substitutions locally the AMS application can proceed to step of where it submits the profile and its contents for storage in the accessory e.g. the gaming controller in . Once the accessory e.g. the gaming controller is programmed with the profile the accessory can perform stimuli substitutions according to the associations recorded by the AMS application in the profile. Alternatively the AMS application can store the profile in the computing device of and perform substitutions of stimuli supplied by the gaming controller according to associations recorded in the profile by the AMS application.

The GUI of presented by the AMS application can have other functions. For example the GUI can present a layout of the accessory button how the accessory is illuminated when associations between input functions and actions are made button and configuration options for the accessory button . The AMS application can adapt the GUI to present more than one functional GUI page. For instance by selecting button the AMS application can adapt the GUI to present a means to create macros and associate actions to accessory input functions as depicted in . Selecting button can cause the AMS application to adapt the GUI to present statistics from stimulation information and or gaming action results captured by the AMS application as described in the subject disclosure. Selecting button can also cause the AMS application to adapt the GUI to present promotional offers and software updates.

The steps of method in whole or in part can be repeated until a desirable pattern is achieved of associations between stimulus signals generated by accessories and substitute stimuli. It would be apparent to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that there can be numerous other approaches to accomplish the embodiments described by method or variants thereof. These undisclosed approaches are contemplated by the subject disclosure.

In step the user can be presented by way of a display coupled to the gaming console profiles available to the user to choose from. If the user makes a selection the AMS application proceeds to step where it retrieves from the selected profiles the association s stored therein. If a selection is not made the AMS application can proceed to step where it can determine whether a software gaming application e.g. video game is operating from the gaming console or whether the gaming console is communicating with the software gaming application by way of a remote system communicatively coupled to the gaming console e.g. on line gaming server s presenting for example World of Warcraft . If a gaming software application is detected the AMS application proceeds to step where it retrieves a profile that matches the gaming application detected and the association s contained in the profile. As noted earlier association s can represent accessory stimulations navigation speech the invocation of other software applications macros or other suitable associations that result in substitute stimulations. The accessory stimulations can be stimulations that are generated by the gaming controller as well as stimulations from other accessories e.g. headset or combinations thereof.

Once a profile and its contents have been retrieved in either of steps or step the AMS application can proceed to step of where it monitors for a change in a gaming venue state based on the presentations made by the gaming application or API messages supplied by the gaming application. At the start of a game for example the gaming venue state can be determined immediately depending on the gaming options chosen by the gamer. The AMS application can determine the gaming venue state by tracking the gaming options chosen by a gamer receiving an API instruction from the gaming application or by performing image processing on the video presentation generated by the gaming application. For example the AMS application can detect that the gamer has directed an avatar to enter a tank. The AMS application can retrieve in step associations for the gaming controller for controlling the tank.

The AMS application can process movements of the gaming controller forwards backwards or sideways in two or three dimensions to control the tanks movement. Similarly rotating the gaming controller or tilting the gaming controller forward can cause an accelerometer gyro or magnetometer of the gaming controller to provide navigational data to the AMS application which can be substituted with an action to cause the tank to turn and or move forward. The profile retrieved by the AMS application can indicate that the greater the forward tilt of the gaming controller the greater the speed of the tank should be moving forward. Similarly a rear tilt can generate navigation data that is substituted with a reverse motion and or deceleration of the forward motion to stop or slow down the tank. A three dimensional lift of the mouse can cause the tank to steer according to the three dimensional navigation data provided by the gaming controller . For example navigation data associated with a combination of a forward tilt and right bank of the gaming controller can be substituted by the AMS application to cause an increase in forward speed of the tank with a turn to the right determined by the AMS application according to a degree of banking of the gaming controller to the right. In the above embodiment the three dimensional navigation data allows a gamer to control any directional vector of the tank including speed direction acceleration and deceleration.

In another illustration the AMS application can detect a new gaming venue state as a result of the gamer directing the avatar to leave the tank and travel on foot. Once again the AMS application retrieves in step associations related to the gaming venue state. In this embodiment selection of buttons of the gaming controller can be associated by the AMS application with weaponry selection firing reloading and so on. The movement of the gaming controller in two or three dimensions can control the direction of the avatar and or selection or use of weaponry. Once the gaming venue state is detected in step the AMS application retrieves the associations related to the venue state and can perform substitutions of stimuli generated by the gaming controller and or speech commands received by microphone of the headset .

In one embodiment the AMS application can be configured in step to retrieve a profile that provides substitute stimuli for replacing certain stimuli generated by accessories. The associations recorded in the profile can be venue independent. In another embodiment the AMS application can retrieve a combination of profiles where one or more profiles provide substitute stimuli that are venue dependent and one or more other profiles provide substitute stimuli that are venue independent.

The AMS application can monitor in step stimulations generated by the accessories coupled to the gaming console . The stimulations can be generated by the gamer by manipulating the gaming controller and or by generating speech commands detected by a microphone of the headset . If a stimulation is detected at step the AMS application can determine in step whether to forward the detected stimulation s to an Operating System OS of the gaming console or the gaming application directly without substitutions. This determination can be made by comparing the detected stimulation s to corresponding associations in one or more profiles retrieved by the AMS application. If the detected stimulation s match the associations then the AMS application proceeds to step where it retrieves substitute stimulation s in the profile s . In step the AMS application can substitute the detected stimulation s with the substitute stimulations in the profile s .

In one embodiment the AMS application can track in step the substitute stimulations by updating the stimulations with a unique identifier such as a globally unique identifier GUID . In this embodiment the AMS application can also add a time stamp to each substitute stimulation to track when the substitution was performed. In another embodiment the AMS application can track each substitute stimulation according to its order of submission to the gaming application. For instance sequence numbers can be generated for the substitute stimulations to track the order in which they were submitted to the gaming application. In this embodiment the substitute stimulations do not need to be updated with sequence numbers or identifiers so long as the order of gaming action results submitted by the gaming application to the AMS application remain in the same order as the substitute stimulations were originally submitted.

For example if a first stimulation sent to the gaming application by the AMS application is a command to shoot and a second stimulation sent to the gaming application is a command to shoot again then so long as the gaming application provides a first a game action result for the first shot followed by a game action result for the second shot then the substitute stimulations will not require updating with sequence numbers since the game action results are reported in the order that the stimulations were sent. If on the other hand the game action results can be submitted out of order then updating the stimulations with sequence numbers or another suitable identifier would be required to enable the AMS application to properly track and correlate stimulations and corresponding gaming action results.

Referring back to step if the detected stimulation s do not match an association in the profile s then the AMS application proceeds to one of steps or in order to track the stimulations of the accessory as described above. In another embodiment tracking of original stimulations or substitute stimulations can be bypassed by skipping steps or and proceeding to step of .

Once the stimulations received in step have been substituted with other stimulations at step responsive to a detected association or maintained unchanged responsive to detecting no association with substitute stimuli and optionally the AMS application has chosen a proper tracking methodology for correlating gaming action results with stimulations the AMS application can proceed to step of .

At step the AMS application can determine a frequency of usage of the stimulation substitute or original based on a historical tallying of stimulations monitored by the AMS application during a gaming session. It will be appreciated that each stimulation or collection of stimulations cause a corresponding gaming action when the stimulation or collection of stimulations is received by the gaming application. Accordingly the term stimulation and gaming action may be used interchangeably throughout the subject disclosure with this understanding. At step the AMS application can compare the frequency of usage of the stimulation to a threshold. If the frequency of usage of the stimulation does not exceed the threshold the stimulation can be redirected to the OS of the computing device at step of for processing. The threshold can be a numerical figure a lapse of time between occurrences of the stimulation a window of time for tallying occurrences or combinations thereof.

For example the AMS application can be configured with a threshold of 100 instances of the stimulation occurring in a 30 second window. Hence if the AMS application detects more than 100 occurrences of the same stimulation in 30 seconds or less the AMS application can identify at step an over usage state of the stimulation. In another embodiment the AMS application can be configured with a threshold set to a time lapse of 10 seconds. Hence if the AMS application detects two or more occurrences of the same stimulation in 10 seconds or less the AMS application can identify at step an over usage state of the stimulation. In yet another embodiment the AMS application can be configured with a threshold of 100 occurrences. Hence if the AMS application detects more than 100 occurrences of the same stimulation over any period of a gaming session the AMS application can identify at step an over usage state of the stimulation.

The AMS application can be configured to create a threshold based on user definable metrics of any kind and is not limited to the illustration provided earlier. Additionally the AMS application can be configured to create a user defined exclusion table. The exclusion table can identify certain stimulations that a user may not want to be subject to the threshold e.g. navigation movements of an accessory usage of certain buttons on an accessory etc. . Although excluded stimulations may not be subject to the threshold the AMS application can maintain a tally of the usage of all stimulations and present gamers the result of such tallies statistically by way of step discussed below. Thresholds and exclusion tables can be shared between gamers. By sharing thresholds and exclusion tables gamers can learn from each other and thereby help improve their gaming performance. Additionally thresholds and exclusion tables can be defined per gaming application. That is the AMS application can enable a gamer to create for each gaming application unique threshold s and exclusion table s .

It is further noted that more than one threshold can be defined for a particular gaming application. For example specific thresholds can be linked to specific gaming actions rather than relying on a universal threshold for all gaming actions. To create more than one threshold the AMS application can be configured to enable a gamer to create a threshold table which lists stimulations gaming actions and corresponding thresholds for each stimulation gaming action. The gamer can also define in the threshold table certain thresholds that can be applied universally to all gaming actions except those identified in an exclusion table or linked to a specific threshold. Additionally the gamer can define more than one threshold for the same gaming action to track different over usage conditions.

Referring back to step the AMS application can also be configured to perform certain activities in a background setting to assist in the determination of the frequency of usage of the stimulation and to identify alternative gaming actions when an over usage condition is detected or appears to be imminent. For example while the frequency of usage of stimulations is being determined at step the AMS application can identify at step alternative gaming actions to improve gaming performance. Step can determine alternative gaming actions based on proactive feedback provided by the gaming application. For example the AMS application can receive API messages from the gaming application which describe game action results based on specific stimulations received by the gaming application. Utilizing the tracking methodologies of steps or and the game action results received from the gaming application the AMS application can be configured to determine the effectiveness of certain stimulations monitored at step and identify one or more alternative gaming actions that may improve a gamer s performance during or after reviewing a specific gaming session.

For instance the AMS application may determine that the gamer is spending a considerable amount of timing shooting at target s with single shot weaponry with limited success. The AMS application may determine from the game action results that if the gamer were to use instead a grenade launcher and or a machine gun at specific instances or throughout a game session the gamer s results would improve. In such instances the AMS application at step can identify such alternative gaming actions to be proposed to the gamer at an appropriate time.

Alternatively or in combination with the foregoing embodiments for determining alternative gaming actions the AMS application can identify alternative gaming actions by analyzing a knowledge database of gaming actions. The knowledge database can be organized by associating gaming actions with each other. For example gaming actions involving weaponry can be associated with each other. Thus a gun may be grouped with a rifle a machine gun a grenade launcher and so on. Gaming actions involving defensive maneuvers may similarly be grouped with each other. A defensive maneuver such as ducking may be associated with crawling walking in a stealth manner rolling etc. Offensive and defensive gaming actions can be subcategorized with an assortment of groupings and associations. The knowledge database can be in part user defined as well as defined by the authors of a video game. The AMS application can determine alternative gaming actions based on suggestions provided in the knowledge database with or without knowledge by the AMS application of game action results provided by the gaming application.

In addition to performing step the AMS application can perform steps and as background processes. The AMS application can perform the tallying of stimulations gaming actions at step by tracking stimulations during a gaming session. Step can also tally usage of game actions between gaming sessions to generate tally figures at each gaming session and in the aggregate over two or more gaming sessions. Aggregate figures can be used to provide trends in usage of stimulations gaming actions. At step the AMS application can present a measure of the frequency of usage of one or more gaming actions. The measure of frequency of usage can be presented as statistical figures on a display device of the accessory or a display device e.g. computer monitor or TV set coupled to the computing device .

Once an over usage state of a stimulation or gaming action is detected at step the AMS application can proceed to step to determine whether to modify the gaming behavior of the gamer at step or present alternative gaming actions at step . At step the gamer can be presented alternative gaming actions by way of a display device of the accessory or a display device coupled to the computing device e.g. a monitor or TV set . In another embodiment alternative gaming actions can be displayed by highlight input functions e.g. buttons of a mock up of the accessory portrayed on the display device. The input functions can be highlighted with color flashing input functions or some other form of highlighting technique that would indicate to a gamer where to find the alternative gaming actions. Additionally the alternative gaming actions can also be described textually e.g. Consider using Ctrl L to launch grenades at a display device. Additionally the alternative gaming actions can be presented by way of synthesized speech at a headset of the gamer speakers of the gaming system or combinations thereof.

In yet another embodiment the alternative gaming actions can be presented by way of illuminating the input functions of the accessory. For instance Ctrl L can be flashed on a keyboard used as a gaming accessory or the X button on a gaming console controller such as shown in can be configured to flash. The illumination of the alternative gaming functions can also be color coded also. For example any input functions in green can represent alternative gaming functions not to be confused with color coding of other input functions. When input functions are illuminated the description of the alternate gaming actions being proposed can be textually described in a display device of the accessory or a display device coupled to the computing device . It is further noted that alternative gaming actions can be a combination of input functions that generate stimuli that later can be substituted by the AMS application with substitute stimuli based on user defined associations included in a profile created by the gamer. The embodiments of step can be viewed as passive embodiments which do not modify the gamer s behavior since the alternative gaming actions are optional.

Subsequent to step the stimulation originally received at step can be sent to the OS of the computing device at step of for processing. In another embodiment the alternative gaming action can be sent to the OS of the computing device in place of the stimulation received at step if the user selects one or more input functions of the accessory associated with the alternative gaming action within a period of time set by the AMS application. The AMS application can provide a time period for the gamer to alternate between gaming actions at step if the AMS application determines it would not substantially impact the gamer s performance. This determination can be made based on API messages received by the AMS application from the gaming application as game action results which can indicate to the AMS application whether delay in submitting a gaming action can impeded the gamer s performance. If waiting for the gamer to alternate gaming actions adversely affects the gamer s performance the AMS application can send the original stimulation of step to the OS of the computing device without delay.

In step however the AMS application can proactively attempt to modify the behavior of the gamer. Such behavior can be modified by for example blocking an overused gaming action limiting use of the gaming action for a time period or replacing the gaming action with an alternative gaming action. Modifying the gamer s behavior may be accomplished in several ways. The AMS application for example can prevent stimuli associated with the blocked gaming action from being sent to the gaming application at step . Thus any subsequent input functions selected at an accessory by a gamer that generates the blocked gaming action will be blocked and thereby will have no effect on the gaming application. Alternatively the AMS application can replace the blocked gaming action with an alternative gaming action. In this embodiment each time the gamer selects input functions of the accessory that generate the blocked gaming action e.g. Ctrl F for the gaming action fire the AMS application replaces the blocked gaming action with the alternate gaming action e.g. Ctrl L for the gaming action launch grenade . Of course if the gamer selects the alternative gaming action suggested by the AMS application the gaming action will be sent to the OS of the computing device at step for processing.

When a gaming action is blocked in this way the AMS application can warn the gamer that a particular gaming action has been blocked. The warning can be a textual warning presented on a display device of the accessory or a display device coupled to the computing device . In one embodiment the AMS application can flash the input functions of the accessory associated with the blocked gaming application in dark red to represent a blocked condition while input functions of the accessory associated with the alternate gaming action may be shown in green. In one embodiment the AMS application can present a warning in the form of synthesized speech directed to a headset or speakers each time the gamer invokes the blocked gaming action by way of the accessory.

If the gaming action is released by the AMS application after a period of time the AMS application can cease flashing the input function but maintain it in dark red. The AMS application can lighten the coloring of the input function from dark red to a lighter red if the gamer reduces the frequency of usage of the previously blocked gaming action. If the frequency of use is sufficiently low the AMS application can continue to dilute coloring of the input functions associated with the previously blocked gaming action until there is no coloring.

To identify a measure of frequency of use the AMS application can illuminate one or more input functions associated with a gaming action with a different lighting scheme than the one used to identify a blocked state. For example based on the frequency of usage of an input function of an accessory the AMS application can cause the input function of the accessory to light up. The intensity of light generated by the input function can represent a measure of usage. The stronger the intensity of light the greater the usage. Alternatively frequency of usage can be represented by color coding the input function. Non flashing red can represent a high frequency of usage of an input function while no color can represent a very low frequency of usage. Until the input function flashes in red a non flashing red input function can indicate that blocking of the input function may be imminent. Additionally the tone of color used can represent a degree of frequency of usage. A dark red can represent a high frequency of usage of the input function while a lighter red can represent less usage. Other lighting techniques for representing frequency of usage can be applied to the embodiments of the subject disclosure.

In one embodiment the AMS application can also be configured at step to present a frequency of usage of gaming actions during a replay of a gaming session. For instance while the AMS application is presenting a replay of a game at a display device the AMS application can illuminate input functions of the accessory as described above to provide a gamer a visualization of the frequency of usage of a number of gaming actions invoked by way of the accessory. Alternatively the AMS application can present a mock up of the accessory and present the illumination of input functions at a display device.

Once the AMS application at step supplies to the OS of the computing device a gaming action i.e. one or more stimulations from the method of the AMS application can proceed to step . The gaming action supplied to the OS at step can be the unadulterated original gaming action of step or an alternative gaming action generated by steps or . At step the OS determines whether to invoke in step a software application identified in the stimulation s e.g. gamer says turn on team chat which invokes a chat application whether to forward the received stimulation s to the gaming software application in step or combinations thereof.

Contemporaneous to the embodiments described above the AMS application can monitor in step for game action results supplied by the gaming application via API messages previously described. For instance suppose the stimulation sent to the gaming application in step is a command to shoot a pistol. The gaming application can determine that the shot fired resulted in a miss of a target or a hit. The gaming application can respond with a message which is submitted by way of the API to the AMS application that indicates the shot fired resulted in a miss or a hit. If IDs such as GUIDs were sent with each stimulation the gaming application can submit game action results with their corresponding GUID to enable the AMS application to correlate the gaming action results with stimulations having the same GUID.

For example if the command to shoot included the ID 1234 then the game action result indicating a miss will include the ID 1234 enabling the AMS application in step to correlate the game action result to the stimulation having the same ID. If on other hand the order of game action results can be maintained consistent with the order of the stimulations then the AMS application can correlate in step stimulations with game action results by the order in which stimulation were submitted and the order in which game action results are received. In step the AMS application can catalogue stimulations and game action results. In another embodiment the AMS application can be adapted to catalogue the stimulations in step . In this embodiment step can be performed as an alternative to steps through . In another embodiment step can be performed in combination with steps through in order to generate a catalogue of stimulations and a catalogue for gaming action results correlated to the stimulations.

Referring back to event the gaming application processes the event and sends back at event a game action result to the AMS application which is processed by the AMS application at event . The AMS application then submits the results to the accessory at event . Events and are depicted as step in . In this step the gaming application processes F as an action to fire the gamer s gun and then determines from the action the result from logistical gaming results generated by the gaming application. In the present illustration the action of firing resulted in a hit. The gaming application submits to the AMS application the result type Hit with a new time stamp while utilizing the same GUID for tracking purposes. At step the AMS application correlates the stimulation left button 3 and or the substitute stimulation keyboard F to the game result Hit and catalogues them in memory. The AMS application then submits to the accessory e.g. gaming controller in step the game action results Hit with the same GUID and a new time stamp indicating when the result was received. Upon receiving the message from the AMS application the accessory in step processes the Hit by asserting a red LED on the accessory e.g. left button illuminates in red or other LED of the gaming controller illuminates in red to indicate a hit. Other notification notices can be used such as another color for the LED to indicate misses a specific sound for a hit or kill a vibration or other suitable technique for notifying the gamer of the game action result.

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments of the subject disclosure can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below. For example the AMS application can be executed from an accessory or computing device to perform the embodiments described in the subject disclosure. The AMS application can also be operated from a remote server cloud services . In yet another embodiment functions of the AMS application can be distributed between devices. In yet another embodiment the AMS application can be configured to track the performance of a gamer and adapt a threshold as the gamer improves or declines in performance.

For instance as a gamer s performance improves with a particular gaming action the threshold associated with the gaming action can be adapted to be less sensitive in detecting an over usage state. Similarly the sensitivity of the threshold can be increased to promptly identify an over usage state of a gaming action if the gamer s performance declines as a result of an over usage of the gaming action. Additionally the AMS application can be adapted to add gaming actions to an exclusion table when the gamer s performance substantially improves as a result of using the gaming action being excluded. The exclusion table can also be changed by the AMS application by removing a gaming action from the exclusion table responsive to its excessive use causing a decline in a gamer s performance.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display . The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable gate array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure. The term non transitory as in a non transitory computer readable storage includes without limitation memories drives devices and anything tangible but not a signal per se.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The exemplary embodiments can include combinations of features and or steps from multiple embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure. In one or more embodiments features that are positively recited can also be excluded from the embodiment with or without replacement by another component or step. The steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can be performed in any order. The steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can be performed alone or in combination with other steps or functions from other embodiments or from other steps that have not been described .

Less than all of the steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can also be performed in one or more of the exemplary embodiments. Further the use of numerical terms to describe a device component step or function such as first second third and so forth is not intended to describe an order or function unless expressly stated so. The use of the terms first second third and so forth is generally to distinguish between devices components steps or functions unless expressly stated otherwise. Additionally one or more devices or components described with respect to the exemplary embodiments can facilitate one or more functions where the facilitating e.g. facilitating access or facilitating establishing a connection can include less than every step needed to perform the function or can include all of the steps needed to perform the function.

In one or more embodiments a processor which can include a controller or circuit has been described that performs various functions. It should be understood that the processor can be multiple processors which can include distributed processors or parallel processors in a single machine or multiple machines. The processor can be used in supporting a virtual processing environment. The virtual processing environment may support one or more virtual machines representing computers servers or other computing devices. In such virtual machines components such as microprocessors and storage devices may be virtualized or logically represented. The processor can include a state machine application specific integrated circuit and or programmable gate array including a Field PGA. In one or more embodiments when a processor executes instructions to perform operations this can include the processor performing the operations directly and or facilitating directing or cooperating with another device or component to perform the operations.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

