---

title: Nanocomposite anode materials for sodium-ion batteries
abstract: The disclosure relates to an anode material for a sodium-ion battery having the general formula AO—C or AC—C, where A is aluminum (Al), magnesium (Mg), titanium (Ti), vanadium (V), chromium (Cr), manganese (Mn), iron (Fe), cobalt (Co), nickel (Ni), zirconium (Zr), molybdenum (Mo), tungsten (W), niobium (Nb), tantalum (Ta), silicon (Si), or any combinations thereof. The anode material also contains an electrochemically active nanoparticles within the matrix. The nanoparticle may react with sodium ion (Na) when placed in the anode of a sodium-ion battery. In more specific embodiments, the anode material may have the general formula MSb-M′O—C, Sb-MO—C, MSn-M′C—C, or Sn-MC—C. The disclosure also relates to rechargeable sodium-ion batteries containing these materials and methods of making these materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09368789&OS=09368789&RS=09368789
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09368789
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140415
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 812 409 filed Apr. 16 2013. The contents of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention was developed using funding from the United States government through Department of Energy Grant No. DE SC005397. The United States government has certain rights to the invention.

The current invention relates to materials usable as anodes in batteries particularly lithium ion secondary rechargeable batteries. The invention also relates to anodes and batteries containing such materials. The invention further relates to methods of making the materials and anodes and batteries using such materials.

Batteries may be divided into two principal types primary batteries and secondary batteries. Primary batteries may be used once and are then exhausted. Secondary batteries are also often called rechargeable batteries because after use they may be connected to an electricity supply such as a wall socket and recharged and used again. In secondary batteries each charge discharge process is called a cycle. Secondary batteries eventually reach an end of their usable life but typically only after many charge discharge cycles.

Secondary batteries are made up of an electrochemical cell and optionally other materials such as a casing to protect the cell and wires or other connectors to allow the battery to interface with the outside world. An electrochemical cell includes two electrodes the positive electrode or cathode and the negative electrode or anode an insulator separating the electrodes so the battery does not short out and an electrolyte that chemically connects the electrodes.

In operation the secondary battery exchanges chemical energy and electrical energy. During discharge of the battery electrons which have a negative charge leave the anode and travel through outside electrical conductors such as wires in a cell phone or computer to the cathode. In the process of traveling through these outside electrical conductors the electrons generate an electrical current which provides electrical energy.

At the same time in order to keep the electrical charge of the anode and cathode neutral an ion having a positive charge leaves the anode and enters the electrolyte and a positive ion also leaves the electrolyte and enters the cathode. In order for this ion movement to work typically the same type of ion leaves the anode and joins the cathode. Additionally the electrolyte typically also contains this same type of ion. In order to recharge the battery the same process happens in reverse. By supplying energy to the cell electrons are induced to leave the cathode and join the anode. At the same time a positive ion such as Na leaves the cathode and enters the electrolyte and a Na leaves the electrolyte and joins the anode to keep the overall electrode charge neutral.

In addition to containing an active material that exchanges electrons and ions anodes and cathodes often contain other materials such as a metal backing to which a slurry is applied and dried. The slurry often contains the active material as well as a binder to help it adhere to the backing and conductive materials such as carbon particles. Once the slurry dries it forms a coating on the metal backing.

Unless additional materials are specified batteries as described herein include systems that are merely electrochemical cells as well as more complex systems.

In order for a battery to function properly the materials used in the anode cathode and electrolyte are typically selected to have compatible electrical chemical and electrochemical properties. For instance the materials may be selected to operate at compatible voltages. A variety of anodes have been developed for lithium ion batteries and many varieties of such batteries have been commercially successful. The same is not true however of sodium ion batteries which often require a different anode or cathode than lithium ion batteries due to a variety of differences between the lithium ion Li and the sodium ion Na . In particular the larger radius of Na makes it difficult to find an electrode material that can reversibly contain Na. This had resulted in the development of very few commercially available sodium ion batteries.

Examples of commercially available sodium ion batteries include the Na S battery and the Na NiClbattery also called the ZEBRA battery . These batteries require the use of molten materials that are difficult to maintain. The use of simpler materials such as carbon based anodes has been investigated but has not resulted in a commercially viable product. For instance a great deal of research has focused on hard carbon anodes e.g. non graphitizable carbon which can deliver a reversible capacity of 200 300 mAh g but which suffer from poor reversibility. Similarly graphite has proven to be unsuitable anode material because the large sodium ions cannot enter and intercalate properly. Due to the voltages at which sodium ion batteries must operate which is close to the voltage at which sodium ions convert to metallic sodium all sodium ion batteries with a carbon anode also suffer from sodium plating resulting in the formation of a solid electrolyte interfacial SEI layer which impede sodium ion movement or dendrites which may cause dangerous short circuits in the battery. Carbon anodes suffer from the further drawback of manganese poisoning when used with manganese containing cathodes which limits battery life.

Recently in lithium ion batteries a new type of anode in which metallic and intermetallic materials that react with Li to form an alloy have showed promise but like other anodes these materials must allow passage of the ion in order to function. Accordingly this type of material has not previously been investigated for the much larger Na which as discussed above does not readily function with most lithium ion battery anodes.

In one embodiment the disclosure relates to an anode material for a sodium ion battery. The anode material contains a matrix having the general formula AO C where A is aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb tantalum Ta silicon Si or any combinations thereof. The anode material also contains an electrochemically active nanoparticles within the matrix. The nanoparticle may react with sodium ion Na when placed in the anode of a sodium ion battery.

In a more specific embodiment the anode material has the general formula MSb M O C where M is selected iron Fe copper Cu molybdenum Mo nickel Ni titanium Ti tin Sn or any combinations thereof and M is aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb tantalum Ta or any combinations thereof.

In another more specific embodiment the anode material has the general formula Sb MO C where M is aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb or tantalum Ta or any combinations thereof.

In another embodiment the disclosure relates to an anode material for a sodium ion battery. The anode material contains a matrix having the general formula AC C where A is aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb tantalum Ta silicon Si or any combinations thereof. The anode material also contains an electrochemically active nanoparticles within the matrix. The nanoparticle may react with sodium ion Na when placed in the anode of a sodium ion battery.

In a more specific embodiment the anode material has the general formula MSn M C C where M is copper Cu molybdenum Mo nickel Ni titanium Ti zinc Zn or antimony Sb or any combinations thereof and M is titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni molybdenum Mo tungsten W silicon Si or any combinations thereof.

In another more specific embodiment the anode material has the general formula Sn MC C where M is titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni molybdenum Mo tungsten W silicon Si or any combinations thereof.

Other embodiments relate to anodes or rechargeable batteries containing these materials as well as methods of making these materials using ball milling techniques.

In the general formulas used herein hyphens indicate chemical compositions that are intermingled to form a nanocomposite material. Chemical bonds may or may not be present between these components of a nanocomposite material.

The current disclosure relates to nanocomposite anode materials for sodium ion batteries anodes and batteries containing such materials and methods of making these materials. Although the anode materials are typically described herein in their desodiated forms when used in a rechargeable sodium ion battery they will additionally contain sodium ions Na in amounts that will vary as the battery cycles through its charged and discharged states. The number of Na that may be in any general chemical formula will depend on the number of elections gained by the anode material when that battery is in a fully charged state as compared to a fully discharged state.

All embodiments of the present disclosure contain a carbon inactive material matrix that contains nanoparticles of an electrochemically active material. This matrix acts as a buffer to accommodate volume changes in the electrochemically active material as sodium ions enter and leave the electrochemically active material during battery cycling.

The matrix material has the general formula AO C or AC C wherein A is a metal such as aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb or tantalum Ta or combinations thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof or even a non metal such as silicon Si or a similar non metal which may be used in combination with any of the above metals. The AOor ACmay be amorphous or partially amorphous and may form a conductive carbon matrix with the C. The electrochemically active material may be dispersed within this matrix.

Nanocomposite anode materials with a matrix of the general formula AO C or AC C particularly those materials described in further detail below may have a capacity of 200 400 mAh g at C 3 or higher current densities. These nanocomposite materials may be able to operate at higher voltages versus sodium as compared to carbon anodes and thus may be less likely to exhibit SEI layer formation or dendrite formation making these anode safer than carbon anodes. Additionally these materials may be more resistant to manganese poisoning than carbon anodes when combined with a manganese containing cathode such as a sodium manganese oxide cathode.

Furthermore anode materials with a matrix of the general formula AO C or AC C particularly those materials described in further detail below may allow the formation of an electrochemically active sodium alloy material contained within the matrix during an alloying reaction sodication which may disappear during a dealloying reaction desodation . Alternatively the matrix may contain the electrochemically active material in different crystalline amorphous phases during battery cycling sodation and desodation . Even within a similar material use of a different metal may result in differences in crystalline amorphous phase changes.

Use of a matrix in combination with a sodium ion reactive electrochemically active species may help prevent or decrease large volume changes in the electrochemically active species during sodation and desodiation. Due to the larger size of the sodium ion as compared to the lithium ion sodium ion batteries may otherwise experience more substantial volume changes than lithium ion batteries. Furthermore the larger size of the sodium ion may make re intercalation into the electrochemically active material more difficult than when lithium ions are used. Thus the matrix may prove particularly helpful for sodium ion battery anode materials.

The first type of anode material has the general formula MSb M O C where M may be a metal such as iron Fe copper Cu molybdenum Mo nickel Ni titanium Ti or tin Sn or combination thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof and where M may be aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb or tantalum Ta or combinations thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof. In specific embodiments the first type of anode material may have the general formula CuSb AlO C FeSb AlO C or NiSb AlO C.

In specific embodiments the material may be present in the form of a nanocomposite material in which nanostructured crystalline particles of MSb are embedded in a matrix of the other materials and provide electrochemical activity to the nanocomposite. In the MSb portion a conductive M framework supports the electrochemically active Sb. M O which may also be referred to as a ceramic oxide may be amorphous or partially amorphous. The C portion forms a conductive carbon matrix with the M O. MSb is dispersed within this matrix.

In one embodiment the particulate or crystalline nature of the MSb portion of the MSb M O C anode material may not develop until after the material has been cycled in an electrochemical cell.

Materials of the general formula MSb M O C may reduce or minimize the effects of changes in volume as sodium ions enter and leave the material by blending nanostructured materials that are electrochemically active towards sodium MSb with materials that are inactive towards sodium M Oand C to form nanocomposite anode materials. Although in some embodiments the nanostructured materials may offer shorter diffusion lengths for sodium ions and may accommodate the strain due to volume changes during battery cycling the large surface area to volume ratio resulting from the particles small size and the high surface reactivity of these nanostructured materials may be problematic. The addition of M O C to form an inactive matrix may help buffer the volume change in the electrochemically active material during charge discharge cycles. The M O C matrix may also reduce agglomeration of the MSb particles which is detrimental to battery performance.

Anode materials with the general formula MSb M O C typically operate at potentials sufficiently higher than the potential at which Na converts to Nato avoid plating of sodium metal on the anode or to reduce the rate of plating to a rate sufficiently low to avoid failure of the battery due to a short circuit during its expected lifetime. The operational potential may also prevent or reduce formation of an SEI layer.

Anode materials with the general formula MSb M O C may be synthesized in some embodiments by mechanochemical reduction of SbOwith M and M metals in the presence of carbon. The carbon may be from an elemental or polymeric carbon source. For instance it may be in the form of acetylene black or another similar material. In a specific embodiment the mechanochemical reduction may be carried out in a single one step high energy mechanical milling HEMM process which is a type of ball milling process.

In another embodiment anode materials of the general formula MSb M O C may be synthesized first by preparing an alloy using high temperature methods followed by ball milling.

The large irreversible capacity loss found in the first cycle with some anodes is partly related to the presence of residual oxides of the electrochemically active species like Sb and such large irreversible loss can be reduced and the coulombic efficiency can be increased by subsequent annealing at moderate temperature in reducing atmospheres.

The second type of anode material has the general formula MSn M C C where M may be a metal such as copper Cu molybdenum Mo nickel Ni titanium Ti zinc Zn or antimony Sb combinations thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof and where M may be titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni molybdenum Mo tungsten W or silicon Si or combinations thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the particulate or crystalline nature of the MSn portion of the MSn M C C anode material may not develop until after the material has been cycled in an electrochemical cell.

In an anode material with the general formula MSn M C C nanostructured MSn particles provide electrochemical activity and the conductive Cu framework supports the electrochemically active Sn. M Cmay be amorphous or partially amorphous. The C portion forms a conductive carbon matrix with the M C. MSn is dispersed within this matrix.

Materials of the general formula MSn M C C may reduce or minimize the effects of changes in volume as sodium ions enter and leave the material by blending nanostructured materials that are electrochemically active towards sodium MSn with materials that are inactive towards sodium M Cand C to form nanocomposite anode materials. Although in some embodiments the nanostructured materials may offer shorter diffusion lengths for sodium ions and may accommodate the strain due to volume changes during battery cycling the large surface area to volume ratio resulting from the particles small size and the high surface reactivity of these nanostructured materials may be problematic. The addition of M C C to form an inactive matrix may help buffer the volume change in the electrochemically active material during charge discharge cycles. The M C C matrix may also reduce agglomeration of the MSn particles which is detrimental to battery performance.

Anode materials with the general formula MSn M C C typically operate at potentials that are sufficiently higher than the potential at which Na converts to Nato avoid plating of sodium metal on the anode or to reduce the rate of plating to a rate sufficiently low to avoid failure of the battery due to a short circuit during its expected lifetime. The operational potential may also prevent or reduce formation of an SEI layer.

Anode materials with the formula MSn M C C may be synthesized in some embodiments by first furnace heating a mixture of Sn and other metals and then ball milling the resulting compounds in the presence of carbon to achieve a mechanochemical reduction. The carbon may be from an elemental or polymeric carbon source. For instance it may be in the form of acetylene black or another similar material.

In another embodiment anode materials of the general formula MSn M C C may be synthesized first by preparing an alloy using high temperature methods followed by ball milling.

The third type of anode material has the general formula Sb MO C where M may be a metal such as aluminum Al magnesium Mg titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni zirconium Zr molybdenum Mo tungsten W niobium Nb or tantalum Ta or combinations thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof. In specific embodiments the third type of anode material may have the general formula Sb AlO C.

In one embodiment the particulate or crystalline nature of the Sb portion of the Sb MO C anode material may not develop until after the material has been cycled in an electrochemical cell.

In specific embodiments the material may be present in the form of a nanocomposite material in which nanostructured crystalline particles of Sb are embedded in a matrix of the other materials and provide electrochemical activity to the nanocomposite. MO which may also be referred to as a ceramic oxide may be amorphous or partially amorphous. The C portion forms a conductive carbon matrix with the MO. Sb is dispersed within this matrix.

Materials of the general formula Sb MO C may reduce or minimize the effects of changes in volume as sodium ions enter and leave the material by blending nanostructured materials that are electrochemically active towards sodium Sb with materials that are inactive towards sodium MOand C to form nanocomposite anode materials. Although in some embodiments the nanostructured materials may offer shorter diffusion lengths for sodium ions and may accommodate the strain due to volume changes during battery cycling the large surface area to volume ratio resulting from the particles small size and the high surface reactivity of these nanostructured materials may be problematic. The addition of MO C to form an inactive matrix may help buffer the volume change in the electrochemically active material during charge discharge cycles. The MO C matrix may also reduce agglomeration of the Sb particles which is detrimental to battery performance.

Anode materials with the general formula Sb MO C typically operate at potentials sufficiently higher than the potential at which Na converts to Nato avoid plating of sodium metal on the anode or to reduce the rate of plating to a rate sufficiently low to avoid failure of the battery due to a short circuit during its expected lifetime. The operational potential may also prevent or reduce formation of an SEI layer.

Anode materials with the general formula Sb MO C may be synthesized in some embodiments by mechanochemical reduction of SbOwith M in the presence of carbon. The carbon may be from an elemental or polymeric carbon source. For instance it may be in the form of acetylene black or another similar material. In a specific embodiment the mechanochemical reduction may be carried out in a single one step high energy mechanical milling HEMM process which is a type of ball milling process.

In another embodiment anode materials of the general formula Sb MO C may be synthesized first by preparing an alloy using high temperature methods followed by ball milling.

The large irreversible capacity loss found in the first cycle is partly related to the presence of residual oxides of Sb and such large irreversible loss can be reduced and the coulombic efficiency can be increased by subsequent annealing at moderate temperature in reducing atmospheres.

The fourth type of anode material has the general formula Sn MC C where M may be a metal such as titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr iron Fe cobalt Co nickel Ni molybdenum Mo tungsten W or silicon Si or combinations thereof or similar metals and combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the particulate or crystalline nature of the Sn portion of the Sn MC C anode material may not develop until after the material has been cycled in an electrochemical cell.

In an anode material with the general formula Sn MC C nanostructured Sn particles provide electrochemical activity. MCmay be amorphous or partially amorphous. The C portion forms a conductive carbon matrix with the M C. Sn is dispersed within this matrix.

Materials of the general formula Sn MC C may reduce or minimize the effects of changes in volume as sodium ions enter and leave the material by blending nanostructured materials that are electrochemically active towards sodium Sn with materials that are inactive towards sodium MCand C to form nanocomposite anode materials. Although in some embodiments the nanostructured materials may offer shorter diffusion lengths for sodium ions and may accommodate the strain due to volume changes during battery cycling the large surface area to volume ratio resulting from the particles small size and the high surface reactivity of these nanostructured materials may be problematic. The addition of MC C to form an inactive matrix may help buffer the volume change in the electrochemically active material during charge discharge cycles. The MC C matrix may also reduce agglomeration of the Sn particles which is detrimental to battery performance.

Anode materials with the general formula Sn MC C typically operate at potentials that are sufficiently higher than the potential at which Na converts to Nato avoid plating of sodium metal on the anode or to reduce the rate of plating to a rate sufficiently low to avoid failure of the battery due to a short circuit during its expected lifetime. The operational potential may also prevent or reduce formation of an SEI layer.

Anode materials with the formula Sn MC C may be synthesized in some embodiments by first furnace heating a mixture of Sn and M and then ballmilling the resulting compounds in the presence of carbon to achieve a mechanochemical reduction. The carbon may be from an elemental or polymeric carbon source. For instance it may be in the form of acetylene black or another similar material.

In another embodiment anode materials of the general formula Sn MC C may be synthesized first by preparing an alloy using high temperature methods followed by ball milling.

The invention also includes anodes made from any of the anode materials described above. Such anodes may include a metal or other conductive backing and a coating containing the anode material. The coating may be formed by applying a slurry to the metal backing. The slurry and resulting coating may contain particles of the anode material. Although in many embodiments agglomerates may not be preferred in other embodiments the coating may include agglomerates of particles of the anode material. The anode may contain only one type of anode material or it may contain multiple types of anode materials including additional anode materials different from those described above. The coating may further include conductive agents such as carbon. Furthermore the coating may contain binders such as polymeric binders to facilitate adherence of the coating to the metal backing or to facilitate formation of the coating upon drying of the slurry. In some embodiments the anode may be in the form of metal foil with a coating.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a sodium ion battery including an anode material as described above. The anode may of a type described above. The battery may further contain a cathode and an electrolyte to complete the basic components of an electrochemical cell. The cathode and electrolyte may be of any sort able to form a functional rechargeable battery with the selected anode material. The battery may further contain contacts a casing or wiring. In the case of more sophisticated batteries it may contain more complex components such as safety devices to prevent hazards if the battery overheats ruptures or short circuits. Particularly complex batteries may also contain electronics storage media processors software encoded on computer readable media and other complex regulatory components.

The cathode in a battery using an anode described above may be any type of cathode suitable for use in a sodium ion battery. In specific embodiments it may be a cathode of the type used in a Na S battery or a Na NiClbattery such as S and NiCl.

Batteries may be in very traditional forms such a coin cells or jelly rolls or in more complex forms such as prismatic cells. Batteries may contain more than one electrochemical cell and may contain components to connect or regulate these multiple electrochemical cells.

Batteries of the present invention may be used in a variety of applications. They may be in the form of standard battery size formats usable by a consumer interchangeably in a variety of devices. They may be in power packs for instance for tools and appliances. They may be usable in consumer electronics including cameras cell phones gaming devices or laptop computers. They may also be usable in much larger devices such as electric automobiles motorcycles buses delivery trucks trains or boats. Furthermore batteries according to the present invention may have industrial uses such as energy storage in connection with energy production for instance in a smart grid or in energy storage for factories or health care facilities for example in the place of generators.

The following examples are provided to further illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. They are not intended to disclose or describe each and every aspect of the invention in complete detail and should be not be so interpreted.

MSb AlO C M Fe Ni Cu nanocomposites were synthesized by a reduction of SbO 99.6 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. with aluminum 99.97 17 m Alfa and the formation of MSb with metal powders Fe Ni and Cu in the presence of carbon acetylene black by a high energy mechanical milling HEMM process. The required stoichiometric amounts of SbO Al and metal were well mixed with acetylene black in an SbO Al M C mass ratio of 80 20. All HEMM steps were conducted in a planetary ball mill Fritsch Pulverisette 6 planetary mill Fritsch Idar Oberstein Germany at a speed of 500 rpm at room temperature under argon atmosphere in hardened steel vials of 80 cmcapacity with steel balls diameter and in. in a ball powder mass ratio of 20 1. The vials were sealed inside an argon filled glove box prior to milling. The milling times for the Sb AlO C FeSb AlO C NiSb AlO C and CuSb AlO C samples were respectively 12 48 36 and 12 hours

The structural characterization of the synthesized samples was carried out with a Rigaku RINT 2000 diffractometer Rigaku Americas The Woodlands Tex. and Cu K radiation in the range of 20 70 with a scan rate of 0.03 s.

The morphology of Sb C Sb AlO C and MSb AlO C nanocomposites was investigated with scanning electron microscopy SEM and transmission electron microscopy TEM . Specifically the samples were characterized with a JEOL JSM 5610 scanning electron microscope JEOL USA Peabody Mass. and a JEOL 2010F transmission electron microscope JEOL USA .

Electrodes for electrochemical tests were prepared by coating a copper foil with a slurry consisting of 70 wt. MSb AlO C powder as the active material 15 wt. carbon black Super P Timcal Bodio Switzerland as a conductive agent 15 wt. poly vinylidene fluoride PVDF as a binder and N methyl pyrrolidinone NMP as a solvent. The coated copper foil was dried at 60 C. for 3 hours in an oven and at 120 C. overnight under vacuum. The sample electrodes were punched out of the foil to give circular electrodes of 1.27 cmarea. The electrodes typically had an active material content of 1 1.5 mg. Sodium ion batteries were assembled with sodium as the counter electrode 1 M NaClOin a mixture of ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate EC PC 1 1 by volume as the electrolyte and a glass separator APFA Millipore Billerica Mass. . The galvanostatic charge discharge experiments were performed at a constant current density of 100 mA gof active electrode material in the voltage range of 0 2 V. Cyclic voltammetric measurements in the potential window of 0 2 V at a scan rate of 0.1 mV swere carried out on a Solartron 1480 Solartron Analytical USA multichannel potentiostat. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopic EIS analysis was conducted with a Solatron SI 1260 equipment. A signal of 10 mV in amplitude was applied in the frequency range of 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz. In the EIS measurements the MSb AlO C nanocomposite served as the working electrodes and sodium foil served as the counter and reference electrodes. The impedance response was measured after various number of cycles 1 10 20 30 40 50 cycles at 2 V vs. Na Na.

Sodiation discharge desodiation charge reactions were carried out in the voltage range of 0 to 2 V. shows the first charge discharge voltage profiles of all the nanocomposites. At a current rate of 100 mA g the delivered charge capacity is 500 mAh gfor Sb C 370 mAh gfor Sb AlO C 250 mAh gfor CuSb AlO C 350 mAh gfor FeSb AlO C and 160 mAh gfor NiSb AlO C. The Coulombic efficiencies of Sb C Sb AlO C CuSb AlO C FeSb AlO C and NiSb AlO C are respectively 79 70 60 60 and 62 in the first cycle. Looking at the Coulombic efficiencies it appears that the incorporation of AlOand of a metal supporter lowers the Coulombic efficiency in the first cycle. This irreversible capacity loss is related to the formation of solid electrolyte interphase SEI layer by a reaction of the electrode surface with the electrolyte. Nevertheless the MSb AlO C nanocomposites exhibit very stable cyclic performance compared to those of Sb C and Sb AlO C with Coulombic efficiencies above 99 after the first cycle.

The Sb C and Sb AlO C electrodes show higher charge capacities than those of MSb AlO C M Fe Ni and Cu . However they display very poor cyclability even in early cycles . This might be due to the severe aggregation and high volume changes occurring during cycling. Such aggregations combined with large volume changes may destroy the SEI layer during each cycle leading to the consumption of more Na ions to reform the SEI and thereby poor cyclic performance. The large volume changes can also lead to a crumbling of the electrode and loss of electrical contact with active material resulting in large capacity loss. In contrast the MSb AlO C nanocomposite electrodes show stable cyclability over many cycles as seen in and .

With an objective to further understand the charge discharge process cyclic voltammetric CV plots of several cycles were analyzed for the as prepared nanocomposite electrodes as shown in and . In the first discharge scan all the electrodes show a broad band beginning around 1.0 V which is related to the formation of SEI layer. In the case of Sb C and Sb AlO C as shown in there are two redox peaks around 0.67 0.92 V and 0.30 0.75 V. Similarly the MSb AlO C M Fe and Cu electrode scans display two pairs of redox bands around 0.76 0.93 V and 0.28 0.73 V suggesting two steps of Na alloying deallying reactions. These two pairs of redox bands can be ascribed to the formation of NaSb and NaSb phases Sb Na eNaSb 1 NaSb 2Na 2eNaSb 2 In contrast the NiSb AlO C electrode displays a single redox peak around 0.38 0.71 V. The two step vs single step reaction may be related to the differences in the reaction with sodium of different metal supported antimony.

In addition to the cyclic performance the MSb AlO C electrodes also exhibit remarkably high rate capability. and show the rate performance of the as prepared nanocomposities. As shown in the MSb AlO C nanocomposites deliver better rate capability than the Sb C and Sb AlO C composites and summarizes the results of normalized capacity retention vs. current rate. Furthermore MSb AlO C nanocomposites exhibit excellent high rate cycling performance. For instance the CuSb AlO C electrode delivers a capacity of 230 215 196 183 and 160 mAh gat current rates of respectively 500 1 000 3 000 5 000 10 000 mA gwith capacity retentions of 98 88 80 76 and 67 at each current rate as shown in .

To better understand the cyclic performance of the MSb AlO C electrodes electrochemical impedance spectroscopic analysis EIS and morphology characterization with TEM were conducted. The impedance was measured after 1 10 20 30 40 and 50 cycles and the results are presented in . Generally the EIS spectrum can be divided into three frequency regions low frequency medium to low frequency and high frequency which correspond respectively to cell geometric capacitance charge transfer reaction and sodium ion diffusion through the surface layer. The slope of the impedance curve in the low frequency region is related to sodium ion diffusion in the bulk of the active material. A semicircle is observed for each of the high and medium to low frequency ranges. While the impedance of Sb C and Sb AlO C drastically increase during cycling the impedance of MSb AlO C electrodes show only a gradual increase and their impedances are much less than those of the Sb C and Sb AlO C electrodes. Among the MSb AlO C electrodes the impedance is in the following order NiSb AlO C

For ex situ XRD measurements to further determine the Na storage mechanism in the MSb AlO C electrodes the electrochemical cells tested as in Example 4 were and at different states were disassembled in an Ar filled glove box. The electrodes were taken out and rinsed with anhydrous dimethyl carbonate to remove the residual salts.

Although only exemplary embodiments of the invention are specifically described above it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of these examples are possible without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention. For instance numeric values expressed herein will be understood to include minor variations and thus embodiments about or approximately the expressed numeric value unless context such as reporting as experimental data makes clear that the number is intended to be a precise amount.

