---

title: Preferred contact channel for user communications
abstract: In one embodiment, a user of a social networking system requests to look up a contact's communication channel information in the user's address book. The social networking system provides to the user the contact's communication channels in an ordered sequence based on the user's social graph and communication information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914442&OS=08914442&RS=08914442
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08914442
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 900 400 filed 7 Oct. 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a network communications services and more particularly to ranking communication channels of contacts in a user s address book based on social graph information and communication history.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. For example a user of a social networking website can access an address book stored in the social networking website look up a contact in the address book and connect with the contact through email.

Particular embodiments relate to ranking and or selecting preferred communication channels for target users based on social graph information and communication history. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can be generally defined by the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user. The privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

In addition to user profile information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example a geo social networking system is a social networking system hosts one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user. The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. For example social network system may post information describing a user s check in to the user s profile page which may cause the information to be included in newsfeeds of other users of the social networking system. In other implementations the social networking system may add the information to such news feeds without posting it to a user profile page. The user may also add delete or update events that the user is associated with. For example a user may update a social event associated with a time and date that the user is planning to attend or make comments in his wall posts about a past event he attended.

Additionally social networking system may provide various communication channels for users to interact with each other. In addition other communications channels not intermediated or facilitated by the social networking system also allow users to interact. Thus users of a social networking system may interact with each other by sending and receiving content items of various types of media through the communication channels. In particular embodiments communication channels may include but are not limited to email instant messaging IM text voice or video chat and wall posts. A user of the social networking system may also interact through various communication channels outside the social networking system with another person a user or non user of the social networking system . Examples of those communication channels are phone call though public switched telephone network PSTN or the Internet e.g. VOIP or voice over internet protocol text voice or video chat SMS short message service text messaging instant messaging and email. To keep track of communication channel information a user of the social networking system may keep one or more address books. An address book may contain one or more contacts e.g. a person or a business identify and for each contact communication channel information for the contact e.g. a phone number a user ID for an IM service an email address a user ID for a social networking system home address etc. . A user of the social networking system may keep the one or more address books inside or outside the social networking system. For example the social networking system may maintain an address book for a user and the user can access the address book though the social networking system s web site or through a client application hosted by a client device . For example a user may keep an address book in a client application hosted by the user s personal computer e.g. Microsoft Outlook or keep an address book in a native address book application supported by the user s mobile phone. For example a user may keep an address book hosted over the Internet by a remote server i.e. the address book is hosted in the cloud and access the address book via a web browser on a client device . In other implementations an address book database may be synchronized between the client device and the social network system.

In particular embodiments user profile database may store communication channel information and an address book of a user. The address book in one implementation may be a superset or a subset of the users of the social networking system that a user has established a friend or contact relationship. A user of client device may access this address book information using a special purpose or general purpose client application to view contact information. In particular embodiments the address book may contain one or more contacts e.g. a person or an business entity and communication channel information for each contact e.g. a phone number a user ID for an IM service an email address a user ID for a social networking system home address etc. . For at least a portion of the address book information the contact entries may be dynamic in that the contact entry is associated with a user of the social networking system that maintains his or her own account and corresponding user profile with contact information. Accordingly when a first user changes any aspect of contact information the revised contact information may be provided to requesting users. In particular embodiments a user may access the address book look up and connect to a contact through a communication channel. Ordinarily when a person looks up a contact the address book e.g. Microsoft Outlook displays communication channels of the contact in a pre set sequence e.g. work phone number first followed by home phone number mobile phone number work email address home email address etc. However the pre set order may not be most relevant as a person may have different preferred communication channels for connecting different contacts. For example John may always connect with his parents by calling his parent s home phone number but may primarily connect with his college friend Nick by email. In addition while a target user may be comfortable providing an email address to many or most contacts he or she may be uncomfortable providing a phone number or receiving a phone call on the target user s cell phone from such contacts. Particular embodiments below describe methods in providing communication channels in a preferred order based on social proximity between a target and requesting user and communication history.

Ordinarily when a person looks up a contact in an address book e.g. a native address book on a mobile phone the address book can present communication channels of the contact in a static or pre set presentation sequence e.g. phone number followed by email address IM user ID etc. no matter how the contact is related to the user. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may establish one or more presentation sequences for a user by assigning each contact in the user s address book stored in user profile database to one of the one or more presentation sequences. In particular embodiments a presentation sequence may comprise an ordered list of communication channel types. In addition not all communication channel types may be provided to a requesting user. For example social proximity between a target and requesting user may determine which and how many communication channel types a requesting user is provided. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may display communication channels of a user s contact in the order of a presentation sequence the contact is assigned to. For example a presentation sequence of a contact can be an ordered list of chat call SMS email IM and the social networking system can display communication channels of the contact in an ordered list of chat call SMS email IM or user ID phone number mobile phone number email address user ID .

In particular embodiments the channel listing process may establish one or more presentation sequences for a target user based on social proximity by assigning one or more contacts of the same or similar social proximity to the user to a same presentation sequence. illustrates an example of presentation sequences based on social proximity i.e. whether a contact is a family member a friend or someone other than a family member or a friend . As illustrates the social proximity between the target user and the requesting user determines the order of the contact channels and in some implementations whether a given contact channel will be provided displayed or otherwise made available. For example in some implementations the channel listing process only returns a top ranked channel to a requesting user such as a target user s email address if the requesting user qualifies as neither a friend or family. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may acquire information characterizing the social proximity of the target user to the requesting user . In particular embodiments the channel listing process may access social graph information in user profile database and determine social proximity of the target user to the requesting user based on a degree of separation identified in a social graph e.g. whether the target user is a friend of the requesting user or the target user is a friend of a friend of the requesting user etc. . Social proximity may also be determined based on declared relationships between users such as whether two users are married siblings cousins and the like. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may determine an affiliation coefficient of the target user based on social proximity between the target user and the requesting user as well as one or more observed interactions between the target user and the requesting user. For example the channel listing process can assign an affiliation coefficient of 1.0 if the target user is the requesting user s parent or an affiliation coefficient of 0.9 if the target user frequently communicates with the requesting user or an affiliation coefficient of 0.7 if the target user is a friend of friend of the requesting user and the target user and the requesting user went to the same college at the same time. A system for measuring user affinity is described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed on Aug. 11 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. Still further as discussed above group users by social proximity social proximity can be based on degrees of separation in a social graph observed activities between users explicitly defined relationship types between users e.g. married to in a relationship with brother of son of etc. and combinations of the foregoing factors or attributes. In some implementations social proximity can also be a matter of explicit configuration by a subject user.

In particular embodiments the channel listing process may determine a presentation sequence for the target user based on social proximity between the target user and the requesting user . illustrates presentation sequences for different user groups that are based on degrees of social proximity to the user. For the example of the channel listing process receives a request from a user to look up communication channel information of a target user in the user s address book. If a target user is a family member of a requesting user then the channel listing process can present the target user s communication channels to the requesting user in an order of chat call SMS email IM . In the example of if a target user is a friend of a requesting user then the channel listing process can present the target user s communication channels to the requesting user in an order of SMS IM call email chat . In the example of if a target user is not a family member or a friend of a requesting user e.g. a co worker then the channel listing process can present the target user s communication channels to the requesting user in an order of email IM chat SMS call or only email if only one communication channel is allowed . In some implementations only the top ranked or top N where N is less than all available communications channels are presented to the requesting user. In this manner the channel listing process suggests or recommends a communications channel to a requesting user that indicates a preferred way to reach the target user.

In particular embodiments the channel listing process may adjust a presentation sequence by current context . For example a user requests to look up a contact in the address book stored in user profile database and the presentation sequence for the contact is call chat email SMS IM . If the channel listing process determines that the contact is currently logged into the social networking system but is in a meeting by accessing event database or a calendar system the channel listing process can adjust the presentation sequence to chat email SMS call IM so that the user communication will not interrupt the target user s current activity.

In particular embodiments the channel listing process may present to the requesting user the target user s communication channels in the order of the adjusted presentation sequence . illustrates an example of presenting a contact s communication channels in the order of the adjusted presentation sequence. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may present to the requesting user the target user s communication channels in the order of the adjusted presentation sequence in a graphic user interface GUI of a client application hosted by the requesting user s client device e.g. a mobile phone . In particular embodiments each communication channel in the GUI is represented by an icon. In particular embodiments an action on an icon by the requesting user may cause the client application to initiate a connection to the requesting user by the communication channel associated with the icon. For example the requesting user can finger tap on a phone icon double click on a phone icon by a pointer or drag a phone icon to the requesting user s picture in the GUI in causing the client application on the mobile phone to initiate a call to the target user. In other implementations a client application hosted on a user s client device may automatically launch a communications application that corresponds to the top ranked communications channel to initiate a communications session with the target user.

In one implementation a user may configure one or more rules that define presentation sequences for various users specifically or social proximity groups. For example the user may configure a set of preferences for different groups of users that resembles . The set of preferences can be considered default settings that may be adjusted based on current context as well as observed communication history. In particular embodiments the channel listing process can further update the one or more presentation sequences for a user by taking into account the user s explicitly configured preferences and communication history relative to one or more users or groups of users. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may access communication history data of a user in user profile database . In particular embodiments a user s communication history may comprise frequency information for each communication channel in the inbound and or outbound directions with each contact in the user s address book as well as other individuals within and or outside the social network. For example a user s communication history can store information such as the number of emails sent received between one or more contacts social proximity groups e.g. family friends second degree friends etc. the number of text messages sent received between one or more contacts social proximity groups the number of phone calls sent received between one or more contacts social proximity groups and the like. In some implementations the client device such as a mobile device may be configured to periodically upload log data that can be processed by the social networking system to generate this information. In some implementations the communication history data may be raw or log data that is processed to yield these statistics. In other implementations a data mining process may periodically analyze the log data and maintain the above identified counts over various slide time intervals. In some implementations a local process executing on the client device can process this information and generate statistical data for use by the social networking system. In particular embodiments a connection between a user and another person may cause updates to the user s communication history accordingly. For example a user can look up a contact in the user s address book by accessing a client application hosted on the user s mobile phone call the contact by a phone number listed in the address book and the client application updates the user s communication history for the contact accordingly e.g. incrementing outbound call frequency for the contact social proximity group by 1 . For example a user may receive an SMS text message from a contact on a client application hosted by the user s mobile phone and the client application can update the user s communication history for the contact accordingly e.g. incrementing inbound SMS frequency for the contact by 1 .

In particular embodiments the channel listing process may update a presentation sequence for a user based on inbound and outbound communication history between the user and one or more contacts assigned to the proximity group. The updating process may consider for a given social proximity group the relative frequencies in the inbound and or outbound directions that the different communications channels are used by a given user or in connection with users in the proximity group. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may adjust a presentation sequence for a user based on inbound and outbound communication history between the user and one or more contacts assigned to the proximity group by calculating for each communication channel in a presentation sequence a weighted average of a default score inbound communication history and outbound communication history of the communication channel and re ordering the presentation sequence by the calculated weighted average of each communication channel in the presentation sequence.

As a user of the social networking system can keep one or more address books outside the social networking system in additional to the address book stored in user profile database it may be more efficient e.g. to reduce network traffic between the social networking system and a remote device to store a local copy of presentation sequences with each address book outside the social networking system. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may store a local copy of presentation sequences in a user s client device . In one embodiment the channel listing process may store a local copy of presentation history and a local copy of communication history in a storage device of a user s client device e.g. a microSD flash memory card in a mobile phone . In particular embodiments the channel listing process may store a local copy of presentation sequences in a server hosting a user s address book. In one embodiment the channel listing process may store a local copy of presentation sequences and a local copy of communication history in a storage device e.g. a hard disk drive of a server hosting a user s address book or in a storage device linked to a server hosting a user s address book. In particular embodiments a connection between a user and another person may cause an update to a local copy of presentation history. For example a user may receive an SMS text message from a contact on a client application hosted by the user s mobile phone and the client application can cause the channel listing process to update the locally stored communication history and update corresponding presentation sequence locally if needed. For example a server hosting a user s address book can facilitate a chat session between the user and a contact causing the channel listing process to update the locally stored communication history and update corresponding presentation sequence locally if needed. In particular embodiments the channel listing process may present communication channels of a contact in a user s address book as sorted by one of the locally stored presentation sequences.

In particular embodiments the channel listing process may synchronize one or more local copies of presentation sequences with the presentation sequences stored in user profile database . For example the channel listing process can poll a local copy of presentation sequences in a user s mobile phone every Monday at 3 AM determine changes in the local copy and changes in the presentation sequences stored in user profile database and update the local copy and the presentation sequences stored in user profile database if needed.

As discussed above implementations of the invention can also be used to select the top ranked communications channel when a requesting user requests contact information for a target user. For example a requesting user using client device may access the social networking system and see an identifier of a target user. The requesting user desiring to contact the user may access an icon or other control to cause the client device to initiate a communications session with the target user. In some implementations the social networking system may execute the channel listing process to identify a communications channel and provide the selected communications channel and channel information to a client device which may use the information to initiate a communications session with the target user.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

