---

title: Apparatus and method for automatic discovery and suggesting personalized gesture control based on user's habit and context
abstract: An apparatus and method for automatic discovery and suggesting personalized gestures from mobile terminal to control a plurality of devices in smart home system, based on user's habit and context. The method includes recording, via a mobile terminal, a context of the mobile terminal, recoding, via home system, actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system, recognizing as a gesture command from a correlation of at least a portion of the recorded context of the user's mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system, and controlling at least one of the plurality of devices based a repetition of the gesture command, the controlling repeating the actions taken by the at least one of the plurality of devices in the home system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521239&OS=09521239&RS=09521239
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09521239
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140424
---
The present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for automatic discovery and suggesting personalized gesture control based on a user s habit and context. More particularly the present disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for integrated discovery and control of a plurality of devices based upon a user s movements and gestures i.e. context .

Mobile terminals are developed to provide wireless communication between users. As technology has advanced mobile terminals now provide many additional features beyond simple telephone conversation. For example mobile terminals are now able to provide additional functions such as an alarm a Short Messaging Service SMS a Multimedia Message Service MMS E mail games remote control of short range communication an image capturing function using a mounted digital camera a multimedia function for providing audio and video content a scheduling function a GPS function a motion detection function and many more. With the plurality of features now provided a mobile terminal has effectively become a necessity of daily life.

The mobile terminals having become a necessity of daily life the mobile terminals are kept with an individual as they perform their daily tasks. For example a user of a mobile terminal may walk from work to home every day at 5 00 PM with their mobile terminal held in their hand. They walk down the street that they live on the user turns left and walks up a short walkway proceeds up three steps and stops for a moment retrieves their keys inserts the key in a lock opens the door to their home and enters the home. During this period the user may be using the mobile terminal for a call function or the user may consider the phone to be in a dormant state.

The mobile terminal s user may additionally have a home system. The home system may monitor and or control devices found in the user s home. For example the home system may record that the user of the mobile terminal opens their front door shortly after 5 00 PM each day.

Accordingly an apparatus and a method thereof that records the movements and actions of a user of a mobile terminal and uses that information to interface with other systems that the mobile terminal may interface with is desired.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an apparatus and method for integrated discovery and control of a plurality of devices based upon a user s movements and gestures.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method for integrated discovery and control of a plurality of devices based on movement context and or gesture is provided. The method includes recording via a mobile terminal context of a user of the mobile terminal recoding via home system actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system recognizing as a gesture command from a correlation of at least a portion of the recorded context of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system confirming an action based on the correlation of the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system and controlling at least one of the plurality of devices based on repetition of the gesture command the controlling repeating the actions taken by the at least one of the plurality of devices in the home system.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an apparatus for integrated discovery and control of a plurality of devices based on movement and or gesture is provided. The apparatus includes a mobile device recording unit configured to record a context of a user of the mobile terminal a home system recoding unit configured to record actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system and a controller configured to recognize as a gesture command from a correlation of at least a portion of the recorded context of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the at least one of the plurality of devices in the home system and to control at least one of the plurality of devices based on repetition of the gesture command the controlling repeating the actions taken by the at least one of the plurality of devices in the home system.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

Detailed descriptions of various aspects of the present disclosure will be discussed below with reference to the attached drawings. The descriptions are set forth as examples only and shall not limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The detailed description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure are provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

Unless defined differently all terms used in the present disclosure including technical or scientific terms have meanings that are understood generally by a person having ordinary skill in the art. Ordinary terms that may be defined in a dictionary should be understood to have the meaning consistent with their context and unless clearly defined in the present disclosure should not be interpreted to be excessively idealistic or formalistic.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include communication functionality. For example an electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook PC a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD electronic clothes electronic braces an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a smart home appliance with communication functionality. A smart home appliance may be for example a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washer a dryer an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a gaming console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder an electronic picture frame and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be a medical device e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device Computed Tomography CT device an imaging device or an ultrasonic device a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device a naval electronic device e.g. naval navigation device gyroscope or compass an avionic electronic device a security device an industrial or consumer robot and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be furniture part of a building structure an electronic board electronic signature receiving device a projector various measuring devices e.g. water electricity gas or electro magnetic wave measuring devices and or the like that include communication functionality.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may be any combination of the foregoing devices. In addition it will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art that an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing devices.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure include an apparatus and method for integrated discovery and control of a plurality of devices based upon a user s movements and gestures.

Referring to a network environment includes an electronic device . The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an Input Output I O interface a display a communication interface a suggestion gesture module and or the like.

The bus may be circuitry that connect the foregoing components and allow communication between the foregoing components. For example the bus may connect components of the electronic device so as to allow control messages and or other information to be communicated between the connected components.

The processor may for example receive instructions from other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface the suggestion gesture module and or the like interpret the received instructions and execute computation or data processing according to the interpreted instructions.

The memory may for example store instructions and or data that are received from and or generated by other components e.g. the memory the I O interface the display the communication interface the suggestion gesture module and or the like . For example the memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and or the like. Each of the foregoing programming modules may include a combination of at least two of software firmware or hardware.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and or the like that may be used in executing operations or functions implemented in other programming modules such as for example the middleware the API the application and or the like. The kernel may provide an interface for allowing or otherwise facilitating the middleware the API the application and or the like to access individual components of electronic device .

The middleware may be a medium through which the kernel may communicate with the API the application and or the like to send and receive data. The middleware may control e.g. scheduling load balancing and or the like work requests by one or more applications . For example the middleware may control work requests by one or more applications by assigning priorities for using system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and or the like of electronic device to the one or more applications .

The API may be an interface that may control functions that the application may provide at the kernel the middleware and or the like. For example the API may include at least an interface or a function e.g. command for file control window control video processing character control and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include a Short Message Service SMS application a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an exercise amount application a blood sugar level measuring application and or the like an environmental information application e.g. an application that may provide atmospheric pressure humidity temperature information and or the like an instant messaging application a call application an internet browsing application a gaming application a media playback application an image video capture application a file management application and or the like. In addition to or as an alternative to the application may be an application that is associated with information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. electronic device . As an example the application that is associated with the information exchange may include a notification relay application that may provide the external electronic device with a certain type of information a device management application that may manage the external electronic device and or the like.

As an example the notification relay application may include a functionality that provides notification generated by other applications at electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application the email application the health care application the environmental information application the instant messaging application the call application the internet browsing application the gaming application the media playback application the image video capture application the file management application and or the like to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . In addition to or as an alternative to the notification relay application may provide for example receive notification from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device and may provide the notification to a user.

As an example the device management application may manage enabling or disabling of functions associated with least a portion of an external electronic device e.g. the external electronic device itself or one or more components of the external electronic device in communication with electronic device controlling of brightness or resolution of a display of the external electronic device an application operated at or a service e.g. a voice call service a messaging service and or the like provided by the external electronic device and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure as an example the application may include one or more applications that are determined according to a property e.g. type of electronic device and or the like of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an mp3 player the application may include one or more applications related to music playback. As another example if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may be a health care related application. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application that is preloaded at the electronic device an application that is received from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device a server and or the like and or the like.

The I O interface may for example receive instruction and or data from a user. The I O interface may send the instruction and or the data via the bus to the processor the memory the communication interface the suggestion gesture module and or the like. For example the I O interface may provide data associated with user input received via a touch screen to the processor . The I O interface may for example output instructions and or data received via the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface the suggestion gesture module and or the like via an I O device e.g. a speaker a display and or the like . For example the I O interface may output voice data e.g. processed using the processor via a speaker.

The display may display various types of information e.g. multimedia text data and or the like to the user. As an example the display may display a Graphical User Interface GUI with which a user may interact with the electronic device .

The communication interface may provide communication between electronic device and one or more external electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . For example the communication interface may communicate with the external electronic device by establishing a connection with a network using wireless or wired communication. As an example wireless communication with which the communication interface may communicate may be at least one of Wi Fi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS cellular communication e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WDCMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or the like Infrared Data Association IrDA technology and or the like. As an example wired communication with which the communication interface may communicate may be at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 Plain Old Telephone Service POTS Ethernet and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. As an example the telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things a telephone network and or the like. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol a physical layer protocol and or the like for communicating between electronic device and an external electronic device may be supported by for example at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel the communication interface and or the like.

The suggestion gesture module may for example process at least a part of information received from other components e.g. the processor the memory the I O interface the communication interface and or the like and provide various information services and or the like to the user in various manners. For example the suggestion gesture module may control via the processor or independently at least some of the functions of the electronic device to communicate or connect to another electronic device e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . will provide additional information regarding the suggestion gesture module .

Referring to a home network system is configured to include home devices having a control and communication function and a Home GateWay HGW . The home devices are located inside or outside a house and include smart appliances security devices lighting devices energy devices and the like. For example the smart appliances correspond to a Television TV an air conditioner a refrigerator a washing machine a robot cleaner a humidifier and the like. The security devices correspond to a door lock a security camera a Closed Circuit Television CCTV and a security sensor that senses a contact a sound a movement and the like the lighting devices correspond to a Light Emitting Diode LED a lamp and the like and the energy devices may correspond to a heater a power meter a power socket an electrical outlet a multiple tap and the like. In addition the home devices may include a Personal Computer PC an IP camera an Internet phone a wired wireless phone a mobile phone used in a home a curtain or blind that may be electrically controlled and the like.

The home devices may be capable of performing communication with the home gateway according to a wired or wireless communication scheme and may be configured to receive a control command from the home gateway to operate based on the control command and to transmit requested information and or data to the home gateway .

The home gateway may be embodied as an independent apparatus or an apparatus equipped with a home gateway function. For example the home gateway may be embodied as a television a cellular phone a tablet computer a set top box a robot cleaner or a personal computer. The home gateway may be equipped with corresponding communication modules for performing communication with the home devices based on a wired or wireless communication scheme so as to register and store information associated with the home devices to manage and control operations supportable functions and states of the home devices and to collect and store required information from the home devices . Particularly the home gateway may be connected with a data network such as the Internet that is an IP network and allows a connection by a communication terminal through the Internet and transfers a control signal received from the communication terminal to a corresponding home device. Also the home gateway may communicate with the communication terminal using a wireless communication scheme such as WiFi Wireless Fidelity Zigbee Bluetooth an NFC Near Field Communication and z wave.

The home network system configured as described above may provide a home entertainment service such as an Internet TV IPTV through the Internet a Video on Demand VoD and the like a home data communication service such as data sharing Voice over IP VoIP a video phone and the like and a home automation service such as remote control of an electrical appliance a remote meter reading crime prevention disaster prevention and the like. That is the home network system may connect all types of home devices used inside and outside a house through a single network for a control.

Meanwhile a user may connect with a home gateway included in the home network system from the outside of the house using a communication terminal such as a mobile terminal or may remotely connect with each home device through the home gateway. The mobile terminal may be for example a Personal Digital Assistant PDA including a communication function a Smart Phone a feature phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a notebook and the like and may access a home network system directly or through a provider s network and the Internet.

Referring to the home devices in the home network system connects with the home gateway through a wired or wireless communication scheme. The home gateway may connect with a wired network such as the Internet. A registered mobile terminal may connect with a wireless network including a wireless access network and a provider core network and may access the home gateway through the wired network . A wireless network may be a 2nd Generation 2G or 3G cellular communication system 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP a 4G communication system Long Term Evolution LTE World Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX and the like. Also the mobile terminal may directly communicate with the home gateway using a wireless communication scheme such as WiFi Zigbee Bluetooth an NFC and z wave. The mobile terminal may directly communicate with the home devices via NFC Bluetooth and the like.

Referring to a system includes a mobile device a home network a suggestion module and a gesture control module .

The mobile device contains a movement recording module that records the context movement and or motions of the electronic device . That is the recoding module records information received from a motion sensor not illustrated a Global Positioning System GPS not illustrated information of a wireless Access Point AP with which the mobile device has established a communication connection.

For example the motion sensor the GPS and the information of the wireless AP are separately used by different functions of the electronic device. The movement recording module uses the information received from these devices to ascertain the mobile devices movements throughout a period of time. For example between 5 00 PM and 5 30 PM each week day a user holding the mobile device leaves his office and walks three blocks north on Main Street and then turns left onto Sycamore Street and walks half a block to his home. Upon reaching his home the user turns left and walks to the front steps of the house where he or she proceeds up the steps the user pauses reaches for his or her keys inserts the keys in the door opens the door and proceeds into his or her house.

Each of these movements is received by various elements of the mobile device . As the user walks from his office the recording module receives information from the GPS as to the user s location. The information from the GPS is the coordinates such as longitude and latitude which the user walks along on their path to home. These coordinates are stored in a series along with a timestamp. It will be understood that the information as to movement is not limited to information received from a GPS and other information such as the location of wireless APs and cell tower triangulation may be used to determine location. Further a motion sensor of the mobile device may record the movement of the user when moving in any direction for example vertically that a GPS cannot distinguish or when the movement along a two dimensional plane is with the margin of error of the GPS system. For example proceeding up the front steps of the user s home may not register as movement to the GPS but the motion sensor or other sensor may register the change in distance to nearby objects or altitude and the like.

These movements are recorded as a context or pattern for later retrieval by the recording module of the mobile device .

The home system is responsible for monitoring and or controlling devices . One of the devices maybe a door locking device not illustrated that monitors the state of the door the state of the lock of the door and also controls the lock mechanism. For example the home system may upon determining that the door locking mechanism is in an unlocked position after 11 00 PM in the evening cause the door locking mechanism to lock by driving a signal that causes a motor not illustrated to actuate the locking mechanism into a locked state.

The home system may include a home system recording module that records the change of state of the device . In our example above the user would arrive home after a ten minute walk between 5 10 PM and 5 40 PM. After waking up the steps and pausing he would insert his keys in the door lock and open the door. The home system recording module records the change in state of the door locking mechanism and the door and the time the state change occurs.

The suggestion module receives information recorded by the both the movement recording module and the home system recording module . The suggestion module is illustrated as a separate from each of the movement recording module and the home system recording module . For example the suggestion module may be implemented in a client server architecture not illustrated where a server performs the functions of the suggestion module . However it will be understood that the suggestion module and the constituent parts of recognition correlation module confirmation module and action module may be implemented in a peer to peer architecture not illustrated where both the mobile device and the home system each shares a portion of the functions of the suggestion module . Thus the suggestion gesture module may be implemented across a number of different devices and is not limited to the embodiment found in

The suggestion module upon receiving the recorded patters from the mobile terminal and the actions taken by the home system correlates the information received based upon time and location using a pattern classifier. It will be understood that the correlation is not limited to time and location but may include micro movements registered by sensors other than a GPS for example an accelerometer E see within a location that indication a particular action to be taken.

The recognition correlation module having recognized a gesture or pattern recorded by the mobile device and the home system confirms with the user of the mobile device that a gesture command is an action that user wishes to take. For example after correlating the user walking from his or her office each weekday between 5 00 PM and 5 30 PM and arriving at the front door of the home between 5 10 PM and 5 40 PM the door controlled by the home system the user pauses and enters his or her key to unlock the door and enters the home. The confirmation module inquires via a display of the mobile device whether in the future the user wishes the door to be automatically unlocked when this context or pattern is repeated as a gesture command. The user upon confirming the gesture command has the action recorded for future use.

The next day the recorder module records the user walking from his or her office between 5 00 PM and 5 30 PM and arriving at the front door of the home between 5 10 PM and 5 40 PM pausing after walking up several steps. The gesture control module aware of the previously confirmed and stored action recognizes the gesture command and informs the home system to unlock the door of the home and the user may enter without use of the key. It will be understood that while an action of unlocking a front door of a house has been illustrated the system is not so limited and any device capable of being monitored and controlled may be so controlled.

Referring to the method for integrated discovery and control of a plurality of devices is illustrated.

At operation A the mobile terminal may record a context or patterns of a user of the mobile terminal. The recording of the patterns of the user of the mobile terminal include recording at least a time and a physical movement of the mobile terminal. The physical movement of the mobile terminal is determined via at least a GPS. However movement of the mobile terminal may be determined by other sensors of the mobile device .

At operation B in parallel with operation A the home system may record context or actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system. The recording of the actions of the devices of the home system includes recording the time of the action and the location of the device .

At operation recognize as a gesture command a recognition correlation module of a suggestion module may correlate the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system . The correlating of the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system in proximity with the physical movements of the mobile terminal and matching a time of an action taken by the one of the plurality of devices in the home system with a time of the physical movements of the mobile terminal .

Optionally determine a location of one of the plurality of devices in the home system in proximity with the physical movements of the mobile terminal and the matching of the time of the action taken by the one of the plurality of devices in the home system with a time of the physical movements of the mobile terminal repeats at least a threshold value number of times. The threshold value may be predetermined or set by a user.

The physical movements of the mobile terminal include a series of distinct physical movements of the mobile terminal from one location in a three dimensional plane to another location in a three dimensional plane. Thus the mobile terminal does not only include latitude and longitude but also vertical movement of the user. The number of the distinct movements in the series should be greater than a threshold value that is predetermined or set by the user.

At operation the confirming module may confirm an action based on the correlation of the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system . The confirming of the action based on the correlation of the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system includes displaying an action taken when the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal repeat and receiving the user s acknowledgement to take the action when the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal repeat. Once the action is confirmed the action module may store the action for later retrieval. It will be understood that the user may not confirm the gesture command and the system may automatically set the gesture command based upon a heuristic confidence value with regard to the repetition of the context or gesture.

At operation the gesture control module may control the plurality of devices based on the user s confirming of the action based on the correlation of the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal with the recorded actions taken by the plurality of devices in the home system and a repetition of the patterns of the user of the mobile terminal . The gesture control module determines that the current patterns of a user of the mobile terminal are the same as the recorded patterns and that there is a confirmed action associated with the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal and based on that determination executes on one of the plurality of devices in the home system the action associated with the recorded patterns of the user of the mobile terminal .

Referring to a graph showing the amount of location and or motion of a mobile device over time. The increase or repetition in location and or movement of the mobile device and the action of a device in a home system increases the probability that a correlation between the location and or movement of the mobile device and the action of a device in a home system is made.

Referring to a display includes a confirmation menu . The confirmation menu requests the user to confirm a gesture command that upon a particular sequence of movements and or gestures occurring a particular action be taken in a home system. The confirmation button upon being activated confirms the action. Thereafter whenever the pattern of movement and or gesture repeats the action will be executed in a device of the home system.

Referring to hardware may be for example a part or all of the electronic device . Referring to the hardware may include one or more Application Processors AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator a motor and or the like.

The AP may control one or more hardware or software components that are connected to AP perform processing or computation of data including multimedia data and or the like. As an example the AP may be implemented as a System on Chip SoC . The AP may include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may transmit and receive data in communications between the electronic device and other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device the server and or the like . As an example the communication module may include one or more of a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth module a GPS module a NFC module a Radio Frequency RF module and or the like.

The cellular module may provide services such as for example a voice call a video call a Short Messaging Service SMS internet service and or the like via a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM and or the like . As an example the cellular module may differentiate and authorize electronic devices within a communication network using a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card e.g. the SIM card . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a part of the functionalities of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of multimedia control functionality.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the communication interface and or the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . As an example the cellular module may be implemented as SoC.

Although illustrates components such as the cellular module e.g. CP the memory the power management module as components that are separate from the AP according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP may include or be integrated with one or more of the foregoing components e.g. the cellular module .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP the cellular module e.g. CP and or the like may process instructions or data received from at least one of non volatile memory or other components by loading in volatile memory. The AP the cellular module the communication interface and or the like may store at non volatile memory at least one of data that is received from at least one of other components or data that is generated by at least one of the other components.

Each of the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may for example include one or more processors that may process data received or transmitted by the respective modules. Although illustrates the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks according to various embodiments of the present disclosure any combination e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may be included in an Integrated Chip IC or an IC package. For example at least some of the processors corresponding to the respective the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may be implemented as a single SoC. For example a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to Wi Fi module may be implemented as a single SoC.

The RF module may for example transmit and receive RF signals. Although not shown the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like. The RF module may include one or more components for transmitting and receiving Electro Magnetic EM waves e.g. in free space or the like such as for example conductors or conductive wires. Although illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module and the NFC module are sharing one RF module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GPS module the NFC module and or the like may transmit and receive RF signals via a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a SIM and may be configured to be inserted into a slot disposed at a specified location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include a unique identifier e.g. Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may be for example at least one of volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM or Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable Read Only Memory PROM Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM mask Read Only Memory ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory and or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . As an example the external memory may be a flash drive e.g. Compact Flash CF drive Secure Digital SD micro Secure Digital micro SD mini Secure Digital mini SD extreme Digital xD Memory Stick and or the like . The external memory may be operatively coupled to electronic device via various interfaces. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include recording devices or recording media such as for example Hard Disk Drives HDD and or the like.

The sensor module may measure physical environmental properties detect operational states associated with electronic device and or the like and convert the measured and or detected information into signals such as for example electric signals or electromagnetic signals. As an example the sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an accelerometer E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G an RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a luminosity sensor K a Ultra Violet UV sensor M and or the like. The sensor module may detect the operation state of the electronic device and or measure physical properties and convert the detected or measured information into electrical signals. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may also include for example an electrical nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an eye scanning sensor e.g. iris sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor and or the like. The sensor module may also include control circuitry for controlling one or more sensors included therein. It will be understood that information of any of the above sensors may be used to determine the movements and or gestures of a user of a mobile device and the corresponding information user to correlate a pattern of movements and or gestures to an action of the home system.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key an ultrasonic input device and or the like.

As an example the touch panel may detect touch input using capacitive resistive infrared ultrasonic methods and or the like. The touch panel may also include a touch panel controller not shown . As an example a capacitive type touch panel may detect proximity inputs e.g. hovering input in addition to or as an alternative to physical touch inputs. The touch panel may also include a tactile layer. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the touch panel may provide haptic feedback to the user using the tactile layer.

As an example the digital pen sensor may be implemented using methods identical to or similar to receiving a touch input from a user or using a separate detection sheet e.g. a digitizer .

As an example the ultrasonic input device may be a device configured to identify data by detecting using a microphone e.g. microphone ultrasonic signals generated by a device capable of generating the ultrasonic signal. The ultrasonic input device may detect data wirelessly.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive user input from an external device e.g. a network computer or server connected to the electronic device using the communication module .

The display module e.g. display may include a panel a hologram device a projector and or the like. As an example the panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED display and or the like. As an example the panel may be configured to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be implemented as a single module. The hologram device may provide a three dimensional image. For example the hologram device may utilize the interference of light waves to provide a three dimensional image in empty space. The projector may provide image by projecting light on a surface e.g. a wall a screen and or the like . As an example the surface may be positioned internal or external to electronic device . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display module may also include a control circuitry for controlling the panel the hologram device the projector and or the like.

The interface may include for example one or more interfaces for a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub and or the like. As an example the interface may be part of the communication interface . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example one or more interfaces for Mobile High definition Link MHL Secure Digital SD MultiMedia Card MMC Infrared Data Association IrDA and or the like.

The audio module may encode decode sound into electrical signal and vice versa. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a portion of audio module may be part of the I O interface . As an example the audio module may encode decode voice information that is input into or output from the speaker the receiver the earphone the microphone and or the like.

The camera module may capture still images and or video. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. front sensor module rear sensor module and or the like not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. Light Emitting Diode flash LED xenon lamp and or the like not shown .

The power management module may manage electrical power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit charger IC a battery gauge a fuel gauge and or the like.

As an example the PMIC may be disposed in an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. The charging method for the electronic device may include wired or wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery may prevent excessive voltage or excessive current from a charger from entering the electronic device and or the like. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the charger IC may include at least one of a wired charger IC or a wireless charger IC. As an example the wireless charger IC may be a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type an electromagnetic wave type and or the like. As an example the wireless charger IC may include circuits such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and or the like.

As an example the battery gauge may measure a charge level a voltage while charging a temperature of battery and or the like.

As an example the battery may supply power to the electronic device . As an example the battery may be a rechargeable battery a solar battery and or the like.

The indicator may indicate one or more states e.g. boot status message status charge status and or the like of the electronic device or a portion thereof e.g. AP . Motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Although not shown the electronic device may include one or more devices for supporting mobile television mobile TV e.g. a Graphics Processing Unit GPU and or the like. The devices for supporting mobile TV may support processing of media data compliant with for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and or the like.

It will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure according to the claims and description in the specification can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software.

Any such software may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform a method of the present disclosure.

Any such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a Read Only Memory ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example Random Access Memory RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a Compact Disk CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are various embodiments of non transitory machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement various embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly various embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a non transitory machine readable storage storing such a program.

While the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described as examples only and are noted intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be understood as to include any and all modifications that may be made without departing from the technical spirit of the present disclosure.

