---

title: Contrast agents based on long-lived nuclear singlet states and related methods
abstract: Methods are described for preparing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or magnetic resonance spectroscopy contrast agents where the contrast agents are prepared from precursor molecules having at least four non-zero-spin nuclei that form two pairs of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei, e.g., diphenylacetylene or diethyl oxalate. The precursor molecule is hyperpolarized and a sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses is applied to transfer spin state population between the first and second pair of nuclei, thereby providing a non-equilibrium single state nuclear spin population. To detect the contrast agent, another sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses is applied to transfer singlet order to polarization. No transformation of the molecular structure of the contrast agent is necessary for detection. Also described are methods of imaging targets using the contrast agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642924&OS=09642924&RS=09642924
owner: Duke University
number: 09642924
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140829
---
The presently disclosed subject matter is based on and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 871 457 filed Aug. 29 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CHE 1058727 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant Nos. T32EB001040 and R01EB02122 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to methods of preparing magnetic resonance imaging and or spectroscopy contrast agents having long lived nuclear singlet states that can be accessed by pulse sequence transformation. Also provided are the contrast agents themselves and methods of using the contrast agents.

Nuclear magnetic resonance NMR or magnetic resonance spectroscopy is a powerful well established tool for studying chemical samples and sample interactions. In NMR the spin and magnetism of atomic nuclei are exploited to provide information about the chemical composition spatial distribution or molecular motion of molecules or atoms. The imaging analog of NMR magnetic resonance imaging MRI is a powerful technique in biomedical sample imaging.

One of the limitations of NMR and MRI is low intrinsic signal strength. Some attempts to overcome this limitation have involved the use of hyperpolarized contrast agents which have very large nuclear polarizations and therefore sensitivities that are orders of magnitude higher than ordinary molecules. Polarization can persist for as long as 100 seconds in some molecules before the polarized nuclei return to thermal equilibrium.

While such a lifetime is sufficient for some imaging and or spectroscopy studies contrast agents with longer lifetimes are highly desirable to study additional processes of interest for example processes related to diffusion flow slow molecular motion chemical reactions metabolism and drug targeting and distribution among others. The relaxation of nuclear spins back to thermal equilibrium is characterized by a time constant T known as the longitudinal relaxation time constant or as the spin lattice relaxation time constant. The development of contrast agents having polarization that persists for times longer than Twould be beneficial for both NMR and MRI.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of providing a contrast agent for magnetic resonance imaging MRI or magnetic resonance spectroscopy the method comprising providing a molecule comprising at least four non zero spin nuclei X X Y and Y wherein X and X are a first pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei and Y and Y are a second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei hyperpolarizing the molecule to provide a hyperpolarized molecule and applying a first sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to the hyperpolarized molecule to transfer a spin state population between the first and the second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei thereby providing a contrast agent having a non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population wherein the contrast agent molecule can be detected after the application of a second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to transfer singlet order to polarization.

In some embodiments J the scalar coupling between X and X is greater than J the scalar coupling between X and Y J the scalar coupling between X and Y J the scalar coupling between X and Y and J the scalar coupling between X and Y . In some embodiments Jis at least three times greater than J J J or J.

In some embodiments the scalar coupling between X and X is between about 10 and about 300 Hertz Hz . In some embodiments X and X are both C or N nuclei. In some embodiments the molecule has a molecular structure wherein X and X are directly bonded to each other. In some embodiments X and X are free of directly bonded hydrogen atoms. In some embodiments Y and Y are both H or F nuclei.

In some embodiments the molecule has a rigid molecular structure. In some embodiments the molecule is selected from the group consisting of a diarylacetylene diacetylene an oxalate diester a cyclooctyne or a lactone or lactam analog thereof a dibenzocyclooctyne or a lactone or lactam analog thereof a pyridazine a phthalazine and a gem difluoro compound. In some embodiments the molecule is selected from the group consisting of diphenylacetylene and diethyl oxalate. In some embodiments the molecule has a symmetric molecular structure X is chemically equivalent to X and Y is chemically equivalent to Y .

In some embodiments the hyperpolarizing is performed by dynamic nuclear polarization DNP . In some embodiments the contrast agent can be provided and detected without undergoing a molecular structure transformation. In some embodiments the contrast agent has a symmetrical molecular structure and can be detected without breaking the symmetry. In some embodiments Y and Y are H nuclei and the one or more radiofrequency pulses are hydrogen only pulse sequences.

In some embodiments the contrast agent has pharmaceutical activity. In some embodiments the contrast agent is formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and administered to a subject. In some embodiments the subject is a mammal.

In some embodiments the non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population can persist for a time that is greater than about 3 times the longitudinal relaxation time constant T. In some embodiments the non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population can persist for a time that is greater than about 10 times T. In some embodiments the non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population can persist for a time that is greater than about 50 times T. In some embodiments the non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population can persist for about 69 times T.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of imaging a target the method comprising providing a molecule comprising at least four non zero spin nuclei X X Y and Y wherein X and X are a first pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei and Y and Y are a second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei hyperpolarizing the molecule to provide a hyperpolarized molecule applying a first sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to the hyperpolarized molecule to transfer a spin state population between the first and second pair of nuclei thereby providing a contrast agent having a non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population contacting the contrast agent with the target applying a second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to convert singlet order to magnetization generating a nuclear magnetic resonance signal and detecting the nuclear magnetic resonance signal thereby imaging the target.

In some embodiments the target is one of a cell a tissue an organ and a subject. In some embodiments the contacting comprises administering a pharmaceutical formulation comprising the contrast agent to a subject. In some embodiments the subject is a mammal.

In some embodiments J the scalar coupling between X and X is greater than J the scalar coupling between X and Y J the scalar coupling between X and Y J the scalar coupling between X and Y and J the scalar coupling between X and Y . In some embodiments Jis at least three times greater than J J J or J.

In some embodiments the scalar coupling between X and X is between about 10 and about 300 Hertz Hz . In some embodiments X and X are both C or N nuclei. In some embodiments the molecule has a molecular structure wherein X and X are directly bonded to each other. In some embodiments X and X are free of directly bonded hydrogen atoms. In some embodiments Y and Y are both H or F nuclei.

In some embodiments the molecule has a rigid molecular structure. In some embodiments the molecule is selected from the group consisting of a diarylacetylene diacetylene an oxalate diester a cyclooctyne or a lactone or lactam analog thereof a dibenzocyclooctyne or a lactone or lactam analog thereof a pyridazine a phthalazine and a gem difluoro compound. In some embodiments the molecule is selected from the group consisting of diphenylacetylene and diethyl oxalate. In some embodiments the molecule has a symmetric molecular structure and X is chemically equivalent to X and Y is chemically equivalent to Y .

In some embodiments the contrast agent can be detected without undergoing a molecular structure transformation. In some embodiments the contrast agent has a symmetric molecular structure and can be detected without breaking the symmetry.

In some embodiments Y and Y are H nuclei the one or more radiofrequency pulses of the first and second sequences are hydrogen only pulse sequences and the nuclear magnetic resonance signal is a hydrogen signal.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a contrast agent prepared by the method comprising providing a molecule comprising at least four non zero spin nuclei X X Y and Y wherein X and X are a first pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei and Y and Y are a second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei hyperpolarizing the molecule to provide a hyperpolarized molecule and applying a first sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to the hyperpolarized molecule to transfer a spin state population between the first and the second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei thereby providing a contrast agent having a non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population wherein the contrast agent molecule can be detected after the application of a second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to transfer singlet order to polarization.

Accordingly it is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide methods of providing a contrast agent for magnetic resonance imaging MRI or magnetic resonance spectroscopy and to provide methods of imaging a target with a contrast agent.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects will become evident as the description proceeds hereinbelow.

The presently disclosed subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying Examples in which representative embodiments are shown. The presently disclosed subject matter can however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art.

All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Throughout the specification and claims a given chemical formula or name shall encompass all optical and stereoisomers as well as racemic mixtures where such isomers and mixtures exist unless otherwise noted.

While the following terms are believed to be well understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the following definitions are set forth to facilitate explanation of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this presently described subject matter belongs.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes mixtures of one or more carriers two or more carriers and the like.

The term comprising which is synonymous with including containing or characterized by is inclusive or open ended and does not exclude additional unrecited elements or method steps. Comprising is a term of art used in claim language which means that the named elements are essential but other elements can be added and still form a construct within the scope of the claim.

As used herein the phrase consisting of excludes any element step or ingredient not specified in the claim. When the phrase consists of appears in a clause of the body of a claim rather than immediately following the preamble it limits only the element set forth in that clause other elements are not excluded from the claim as a whole.

As used herein the phrase consisting essentially of limits the scope of a claim to the specified materials or steps plus those that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic s of the claimed subject matter.

With respect to the terms comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of where one of these three terms is used herein the presently disclosed and claimed subject matter can include the use of either of the other two terms.

The term contrast agent refers to a contrast agent molecule or a composition comprising a contrast agent molecule that increases the contrast of a tissue organ cell or other biological structure being examined for example using nuclear magnetic resonance imaging MRI . The contrast agent molecules of the presently disclosed subject matter can also be used to determine the progress of chemical reactions or non biological phenomena e.g. chemical diffusion via nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy.

The term J coupling can also be referred to as spin spin coupling or scalar coupling. As used herein J coupling can refer to a J coupling which is larger than the reciprocal of the spin spin relaxation time T.

As used herein the term chemically equivalent nuclei can refer to nuclei having the same chemical shift. Accordingly molecules having chemically equivalent nuclei generally have a plane of symmetry such that each of the two chemically equivalent nuclei are bonded to a chemical group or groups that have the same chemical structure or structures as the group or groups bonded to the other chemically equivalent nuclei. Non chemically equivalent nuclei are generally bonded to one chemical group that is different in structure than the chemical group or groups bonded to the other non chemically equivalent nuclei. Non equivalent nuclei can have a resonance frequency difference which exceeds the J coupling between them.

The term effectively equivalent nuclei can refer to nuclei wherein by coincidence or choice of field strength the resonance frequencies of the nuclei will differ by less than the J coupling between them. For example in some embodiments the effectively equivalent nuclei can have a chemical shift difference that is at least three times or in some embodiments at least five times smaller than the J coupling between them.

The term effectively equivalent nuclei can in some embodiments refer to nuclei that are nearly chemically equivalent or nearly equivalent as well as to nuclei having a chemical shift difference that can be reduced or eliminated by radiofrequency pulses. The terms nearly chemically equivalent and nearly equivalent refer to nuclei that have a chemical shift difference that is smaller than the largest J coupling in the system i.e. in the molecule . The methods described herein can be performed using a system having nearly equivalent nuclei as one or both of the nuclei pairs in the absence of any additional irradiation.

Non zero spin nuclei can be selected from the group including but not limited to H H C N N F and P. In some embodiments providing the molecule comprising at least four non zero spin nuclei comprises synthetically doping or labeling a molecule with a particular isotope e.g. with C .

The terms sensitive and insensitive as used herein with regard to nuclei can refer to the relative intensity of NMR signals of the nuclei. The signal intensity can relate to the gyromagnetic ratio of the nuclei i.e. to the ratio of magnetic dipole moment to angular momentum. Generally nuclei e.g. C N N etc. with lower gyromagnetic ratios are more insensitive while nuclei e.g. H and F with higher gyromagnetic ratios are more sensitive.

In some embodiments hyperpolarizing is performed by dynamic nuclear polarization DNP . DNP refers to transferring spin polarization from electrons to nuclei. In some embodiments DNP can be performed by doping a material with a free radical. The unpaired electrons in the free radical can be polarized for example by exposure to a high magnetic field and low temperature. Irradiation at the electron paramagnetic resonance frequency can then serve to transfer polarization to the nuclei. However the hyperpolarizing can be performed by other techniques known in the art such as but not limited to reaction with para hydrogen i.e. by para hydrogen induced polarization PHIP . By hyperpolarization it is meant that the sample is polarized to a level over that found at room temperature and 1 Tesla for example polarized to a polarization degree in excess of about 0.1 in excess of about 1 or in excess of about 10 .

The terms molecular structure transformation and chemical transformation can refer to chemical and biochemical reactions wherein one or more bonds are formed or broken.

The term rigid structure as used herein can refer to molecules having one or more bonds that do not have essentially free rotation. Such structures can include pi bonds or bonding systems e.g. a system of conjugated bonds that are typically planar and or substructures e.g. ring structures that have preferred conformations for example due to angle strain and or torsional strain. In some embodiments molecules with rigid molecular structure have one or more ring structures and or a series of alternating single and multiple bonds e.g. double or triple bonds .

In some embodiments the target is one of a cell a tissue an organ and a subject e.g. a human or other mammal . In some embodiments the contrast agent can be used in an NMR study and the target can be a chemical composition e.g. a non biochemical reaction mixture .

Nuclear magnetic resonance NMR and the imaging analog magnetic resonance imaging MRI have become important techniques. MRI has become a powerful clinical imaging modality for two fundamental reasons. First the hardware is mature modern MRI machines routinely give complex sequences of arbitrarily shaped radiofrequency pulses to create precise excitation and give magnetic field gradient pulses to suppress magnetization or obtain spatial resolution. More importantly however the theoretical framework is mature. No other modern spectroscopy has such a strong theoretical basis which of course is used to understand the structures of molecules as complicated as proteins in solution. This maturity is even more important in MRI complications associated with imaging in vivo can often be reduced or eliminated by clever pulse sequence design.

However the maturity of that theoretical framework also implies that the known limitations of MRI are rather fundamental. The Boltzmann distribution implies that the net fractional magnetization is small at room temperature so in most MRI studies the signal arises mostly from water. Contrast then arises primarily from parameters that can be traced back to the spin physics explorations of the 1940s and 1950s the local bulk magnetization M the relaxation parameters T Tand T and local values of diffusion sometimes in different directions which often only have very indirect clinical relevance or correlation with metabolism and cell biochemistry. MRI contrast agents generally have limited specificity and usually need to be present in high concentration to affect the signal.

These limitations have recently been partially surmounted by the ready commercial availability of hyperpolarized reagents which have very large nuclear polarizations and thus orders of magnitude higher sensitivity than ordinary molecules. Among the recent methods are techniques to create spin polarized He see McFall et al. 200 553 558 1996 and Salerno et al. 40 33 44 2001 para Haddition across double bonds see Bowers and Weitekamp 57 2645 2648 1986 Bowers and Weitekamp 109 5541 5542 1987 Natterer and Bargon 31 293 315 1997 Duckett and Sleigh 34 71 92 1999 and Golman et al. 46 1 5 2001 and dynamic nuclear polarization DNP . See Abragam and Goldman 41 395 467 1978 de Boer et al. 15 249 267 1974 de Boer and Niinikoski 114 495 498 1974 Hall et al. 276 930 931 1997 Bajaj et al. 160 85 90 2003 Johansson et al. 51 464 472 2004 and Ardenkjaer Larsen et al. 100 10158 10163 2003 . All of these methods have demonstrated large nuclear magnetization 10 as compared to typical thermal magnetization of 10 with the polarization persisting as long as 100 s in some molecules. Many different research groups have been examining potential uses of such hyperpolarized molecules both in vivo and in vitro. See Kurhanewicz et al. 49 3 341 344 2008 Golman et al. 66 10855 10860 2006 Merritt et al. 104 19773 19777 2007 Day et al. 45 12 1018 1021 2007 Gabellieri et al. 130 14 4598 2008 .

DNP methodology in particular is very versatile and hundreds of different molecules have been polarized. However most DNP studies have focused on C in pyruvate largely because the Trelaxation time for the C1 position is relatively long 40 s at 14.1 T so the polarized nuclei can potentially undergo many reactions before the NMR signal returns to thermal equilibrium and becomes undetectable. Generically carbon 13 Tvalues are expected to be tens of seconds for carbons without attached protons and much shorter with attached protons. While this lifetime permits some important metabolic processes to be studied it is vastly shorter than the lifetimes associated with other molecular imaging modalities e.g. F PET and provides a fundamental limitation to the ultimate generality of the technique.

Previous studies have demonstrated the use of singlet states comprised of non symmetry related spins to lengthen T. See Ahuja et al. 127 134112 2007 Carravetta et al. 92 153003 2004 Carravetta and Levitt 126 6228 6229 2004 and Carravetta and Levitt J. Chem. Physics 122 214505 2005 . In the studies molecules with broken symmetry for example a single carbon 13 are used. The non symmetry related spins are manipulated to appear to be equivalent by removing frequency differences with multiple spin echoes or by lowering the magnetic field so much that the resonance frequencies are essentially the same which requires removing the sample from the magnet . The signal is then observed by permitting free evolution in a high field. Both approaches give interesting demonstrations of lifetime increases but neither is practical for MRI. In addition at the microscopic level both of these approaches have certain limitations. For example relaxation is dominated by the local components of the magnetic field fluctuating near the Larmor frequency and if two sites are physically inequivalent these fluctuations are expected to be poorly correlated even if the resonance frequencies are nearly the same.

PCT International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2005 015253 relates to an approach that involves lowering the field to create a pseudo singlet state and to reacting an unsaturated symmetric molecule with parahydrogen to provide a quasi equilibrium nuclear spin ensemble estate. See also Carravetta et al. 92 153003 2004 Carravetta and Levitt 126 6228 6229 2004 and Carravetta and Levitt J. Chem. Physics 122 214505 2005 .

PCT International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2010 014893 describes a method of imaging a target wherein a contrast agent is provided by preparing a compound having a non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population wherein the singlet is between chemically equivalent spins. To detect the contrast agent a chemical reaction is performed to break symmetry in the contrast agent. Thus for example the contrast agent can be provided by chemically converting a hyperpolarized molecule having two J coupled non zero spin non equivalent nuclei into a molecule wherein the previously non equivalent nuclei are equivalent e.g. by converting a non symmetric molecule into a symmetric molecule . Then magnetization stored in the contrast agent can be accessed by chemically converting the contrast agent into a detection molecule where the equivalent nuclei become non equivalent again.

According to the presently disclosed subject matter it is possible to transfer population in and out of chemically equivalent singlet states using only radiofrequency pulses. Thus no molecular structure transformation of the contrast agent is required for detection or formation . Accordingly the presently disclosed methods can be performed without making breaking or isomerizing any bonds in the contrast agent.

More particularly the contrast agent of the presently disclosed subject matter can comprise at least two pairs of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent non zero spin nuclei. According the presently disclosed methods it is possible to create a coherence involving one pair of nuclei e.g. carbon 13 nitrogen 14 nitrogen 15 deuterium i.e. H or some other relatively insensitive nuclei and a second pair of nuclei e.g. hydrogen or fluorine 19 or another more sensitive nuclei that can be accessed completely through the sensitive nuclei detected completely through the sensitive nuclei or both but has the longer lifetime associated with a singlet of the more insensitive nuclei.

More particularly the presently disclosed subject matter is based on the ability to transfer population in and out of a singlet state at high field using only radiofrequency pulse sequences in molecular systems that comprise appropriate scalar couplings from the singlet spins to other spins in the molecule to break magnetic equivalence. An exemplary four spin molecular system is C diacetylene i.e. H C C C C H where the C and H pairs are symmetric around the same center of inversion. The singlet singlet state for this system i.e. SS 2 has no dipole allowed transitions to other states but does have the same overall inversion symmetry as the triplet triplet state i.e. TT 2 which has dipole allowed transitions. Thus unlike the singlet state in a two spin system the singlet state in such a four spin system is not isolated by symmetry from all other states. Accordingly given appropriate scalar couplings the singlet singlet state of four spin systems can essentially be an eigenstate. However because this state has the same overall symmetry as the allowed triplet triplet state many different pulse sequences are capable of transferring population between them such as the exemplary sequences described below. Additional theoretical considerations regarding four spin molecular systems are described in Feng et al. 2012 8 831 .

In some embodiments the pulse sequences that can be used to migrate population between singlet and triplet states are similar to magnetization to w singlet singlet to magnetization sequences M2S S2M used to interconvert between slightly chemically equivalent spins see Tayler and Levitt 2011 13 5556 and Pileio et al. 2011 107 17135 except that according to the presently disclosed subject matter chemical equivalence is preserved and magnetic equivalence is broken using scalar couplings. Thus a train of 180 composite pulses separated by delays to allow accumulation of state mixing can interconvert the singlet and triplet states. As described in Example 1 below interconversion between C magnetization and C singlet order can be performed in the exemplary CC HH spin system in C diethyl oxalate C DEO . Further in some embodiments the sequences can be selectively pulsed on either the insensitive nuclei e.g. C or the sensitive nuclei e.g. H . Thus as shown in Example 2 using the exemplary system of C 1 2 diphenylacetylene C DPA H magnetization can be transferred into Csinglet polarization. Therefore according to the presently disclosed subject matter either C or H magnetization can be hyperpolarized and converted to C singlet polarization which for detection can subsequently be converted back into either C or H magnetization.

The M2S sequence is shown in more detail in . The M2S sequence includes a 90 pulse i.e. 90 followed by a first multiple echo sequence first set of brackets . The multiple echo sequence can be equivalent to a Carr Purcell Meiboom Gill CPMG sequence with each echo pulse composed of a 9018090 composite pulse unit where is phase cycled according to a composite pulse decoupling CPD scheme i.e. MLEV4 . The first multiple echo sequence is followed by a 90 pulse 90 which has a 90 phase shift compared to the first 90 pulse 90. A second multiple echo sequence second set of brackets follows an interpulse delay 2 . The second multiple echo sequence has half as many pulses as the first multiple echo sequence.

The inter pulse delay and n are calculated based on the coupling constants of the particular molecule being used. For instance in molecules wherein the more sensitive nuclei is H and the less sensitive nuclei is C can be calculated using the following formula 1 2 square root over . In the exemplary molecule C DPA Jis 182 HZ J 5.5 Hz and J is 0.6 Hz see providing 1.365 ms. In the formula above Jcan be replaced by J J e.g. if J 0. The number of pulses n can be calculated using the formula 2 arctan . For C DPA n 47.9. For practical purposes this can be rounded up to 48. Similarly to the formula for if J 0 the term Jcan be replaced by J J .

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of providing a contrast agent for magnetic resonance imaging MRI or magnetic resonance spectroscopy the method comprising providing a molecule comprising at least four non zero spin nuclei X X Y and Y wherein X and X are a first pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei and Y and Y are a second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei hyperpolarizing the molecule to provide a hyperpolarized molecule and applying a first sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to the hyperpolarized molecule to transfer a spin state population between the first and the second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei thereby providing a contrast agent having a non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population wherein the contrast agent molecule can be detected after the application of a second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to transfer singlet order to polarization.

The first sequence of one or more pulses is designed to put the molecule into a long lived state. In a typical MRI application the molecule can be injected into a subject at that point and allowed to undergo various biochemical transformations in some embodiments producing metabolites. Thus in useful applications there can generally be a delay e.g. a variable relaxation delay between the first and second sequence of pulses. This delay can be many seconds or preferably many minutes. In order to see the signal the second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses is applied to transfer singlet order back into an observable state.

In some embodiments a metabolic reaction can change the molecular structure of the contrast agent to make chemically equivalent nuclei inequivalent in which case the long lived state can be lost. Alternatively in some embodiments the metabolic reaction can change the molecular structure of the contrast agent thereby changing resonance frequencies of some of the spins in which case the metabolite can still have a long lived state but can be distinguishable from the original contrast agent molecule during detection. Accordingly in some embodiments detection of the contrast agent molecule refers to detection of a MRI or NMR signal of a molecule having the same molecular structure as the original molecule i.e. the molecule with the four non zero spin nuclei . However the contrast agent molecule can also be detected via detection of a MRI or NMR signal from a molecule that is a derivative of the original molecule e.g. a metabolite formed when the contrast agent has undergone a biochemical transformation or via the absence of an expected signal e.g. when formation of a metabolite of the contrast agent molecule results in early loss of a long lived singlet state.

In some embodiments a pulsed field gradient e.g. a z gradient is applied to the contrast agent after the first sequence of one or more pulses is applied but prior to the delay between the first and second sequences. In some embodiments a pulsed field gradient e.g. a z gradient and a 90 pulse are applied to the contrast agent after the delay between the first and second sequence. In some embodiments the post delay pulsed field gradient and 90 pulse are repeated one or more times.

In some embodiments the effectively equivalent nuclei can be nearly equivalent e.g. having a chemical shift difference that is smaller than the largest J coupling in the molecule or can have a chemical shift difference that can be reduced by radiofrequency pulses. In some embodiments such as when the hyperpolarization provides large longitudinal order e.g. when the hyperpolarization is by DNP the first and second pulse sequences e.g. M2S and S2M in can be the same sequence simply reversed in time. Thus in some embodiments the same pulse sequence is used to convert conventional magnetization to the singlet and to convert from the singlet to conventional magnetization. In some embodiments such as when hyperpolarization is by reaction with para hydrogen the first and second sequences can be different. For example the M2S sequence can be shortened or even completely omitted compared to the S2M sequence when hyperpolarization is performed with para hydrogen. However in some embodiments the first sequence includes at least one or more or at least two or more radiofrequency pulses.

In some embodiments e.g. to reduce energy dissipation the M2S and S2M sequences can be replaced or modified using spin lock induced crossing SLIC sequences that employ continuous wave CW irradiation. See Theis et al. J. Chem. Phys. 2014 140 014201 . Thus in some embodiments see a 90 pulse to create transverse magnetization is followed by radiofrequency RF irradiation at a smaller amplitude to transfer nuclear spin population into a long lived singlet. The RF irradiation i.e. CWx in can be 90 out of phase from the first pulse i.e. along the direction of magnetization . The CW irradiation can be performed with a locking field based on J. Following a variable relaxation delay an identical RF irradiation can be used to allow for detection of MRI or NMR signal.

Typically X and X are less sensitive than Y and Y . In some embodiments J the scalar coupling between X and X the less sensitive pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei is greater than J the scalar coupling between X and Y J the scalar coupling between X and Y J the scalar coupling between X and Y and J the scalar coupling between X and Y . In some embodiments Jis at least three times greater than J J J or J. In some embodiments Jcan be less than three times greater than J J J or J such as when J J J or Jcan be reduced by applying radiofrequency pulses e.g. only to Y and Y . In some embodiments the scalar coupling between X and X is between about 10 and about 300 Hertz Hz e.g. about 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 250 260 270 280 290 or 300 Hz or a range involving any combination thereof .

In some embodiments X and X are both C or N nuclei. In some embodiments X and X are directly bonded to each other e.g. via a nitrogen nitrogen single bond a carbon carbon single bond or by a carbon carbon triple bond . In some embodiments X and X are free of directly bonded hydrogen atoms. In some embodiments X and X are nuclei with a spin e.g. N or H . In some embodiments Y and Y are both H or F nuclei.

In some embodiments there can be more than one pair of the more sensitive nuclei. For example the contrast agent can be diphenylacetylene wherein there are two carbons coupled to four chemically equivalent hydrogens and a long lived carbon singlet can be populated from the hydrogens.

In some embodiments the molecule has a rigid molecular structure. For example the molecule can have a structure comprising one or more rings i.e. one or more aromatic or non aromatic ring structures and or one or more pi bonds such as in an alkene or alkyne group . In some embodiments the molecule is selected from the group comprising diarylacetylene diacetylene an oxalate diester a cyclooctyne or a lactone or lactam analog thereof a dibenzocyclooctyne or a lactone or lactam analog thereof a pyridazine a phthalazine and a gem difluoro compound. By lactone or lactam analog thereof is mean that two carbon atoms in the cyclooctyne ring are replaced by C O O or C O NH . In some embodiments the molecule has a symmetric molecular structure. In some embodiments X is chemically equivalent to X and Y is chemically equivalent to Y . Thus in some embodiments the contrast agent has a symmetrical molecular structure and can be detected without breaking the symmetry. In some embodiments the molecule is selected from the group comprising diphenylacetylene and diethyl oxalate e.g. C labelled diphenylacetylene or diethyl oxalate .

Molecular structures of exemplary molecules that can be used as contrast agents according to the presently disclosed subject matter are shown in Table 1 below. The C and N atoms are indicated by markings. Also included in Table 1 are estimated T Tratios which are calculated at magnetic fields B of 8.45 T or 3 T unless otherwise indicated and ratios of scalar couplings.

In some embodiments Y and Y are H nuclei and the one or more radiofrequency pulses e.g. of the first and or second sequences are hydrogen only pulse sequences. Thus in some embodiments H magnetization can be converted into C singlet or N singlet polarization and then converted back into H magnetization for detection. Accordingly in some embodiments the presently disclosed contrast agents and methods can be used with NMR and MRI equipment that does not possess heteronuclear capabilities e.g. with standard clinical MRI imagers . The signals of the aromatic protons of many of the presently disclosed contrast agents can be readily distinguished from noise due to water and or fat.

In some embodiments the contrast agent has pharmaceutical activity. For instance the molecule having the at least four non zero spin nuclei X X Y and Y can be a modified version of a molecule with a known pharmaceutical activity. In some embodiments the molecule with known pharmaceutical activity can be modified by being labeled or doped with a suitable isotope e.g. C or N . In some embodiments the molecule with known pharmaceutical activity can be modified by being conjugated covalently or non covalently to a system having at least four non zero spin nuclei. For instance derivatives of C DPA can be prepared e.g. with aromatic substituents having functional groups that can be used to conjugate the C DPA to another molecule that has biological activity without significantly disturbing the spin system of the C DPA. Examples of pharmaceutically active molecules that can be modified to include a suitable system having at least four non zero spin nuclei include but are not limited to various antibiotics e.g. the UDP 3 O R 3 hydroxymyristoyl N acetylglucosamine deacetylase LpxC inhibitor CHIR 090 and anticancer drugs e.g. suberolyanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA also known as Vorinostat. The structures of CHIR 090 and SAHA are shown below in Scheme 1.

In some embodiments the contrast agent is formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and administered to a subject such as a human or other mammal. In some embodiments the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a carrier that is pharmaceutically acceptable in humans including water saline and aqueous solutions that can comprise other diluents in addition to water including but not limited to ethanol propylene glycol glycerin and the like.

In some embodiments the contrast agent molecule can be encapsulated into a delivery format or vehicle to protect the contrast agent molecule from one or more conditions in an in vivo environment or to aid in delivery of the contrast agent molecule to a specific location in a subject e.g. to a particular organ or to tumor . Thus the delivery format can include one or more targeting groups e.g. an antibody antigen receptor ligand enzyme substrate or the like .

In some embodiments the non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population can persist for a time that is greater than about 3 times T greater than about 5 times T greater than about 10 times T greater than about 20 times T greater than about 30 times T greater than about 40 times T or greater than about 50 times T. In some embodiments the non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population can persist for about 69 times T.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides in some embodiments a method of imaging a target. In some embodiments the method comprises providing a molecule comprising at least four non zero spin nuclei X X Y and Y wherein X and X are a first pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei and Y and Y are a second pair of chemically equivalent or effectively equivalent nuclei hyperpolarizing the molecule to provide a hyperpolarized molecule applying a first sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses to the hyperpolarized molecule to transfer a spin state population between the first and second pair of nuclei thereby providing a contrast agent having a non equilibrium singlet state nuclear spin population contacting the contrast agent with the target applying a second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses e.g. to the contrast agent or to the target to convert singlet order to magnetization generating a nuclear magnetic resonance signal and detecting a nuclear magnetic resonance signal thereby imaging the target.

The target can be selected from the group comprising a cell a tissue an organ and a subject e.g. a human or other mammal . Thus in some embodiments the contacting comprises administering a pharmaceutical formulation comprising the contrast agent to a subject or administering an encapsulated and or targeted contrast agent to a subject. Thus in some embodiments such as when the contrast agent is for use in an in vivo MRI study the method can further comprise incorporating the contrast agent molecule into a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or delivery vehicle to provide a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation suitable for administration to a subject.

In some embodiments the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments the mammal is a human however the presently disclosed subject matter also relates to the administration of contrast agents to any mammal e.g. dogs cats horses cows goats sheep and the like including both animals kept on farms and in zoos . Thus the presently disclosed MRI contrast agents can be used in both medical and veterinary practice.

The formulation can include stabilizers antioxidants osmolality adjusting agents solubilizing agents emulsifiers viscosity enhancers buffers etc. The formulation can be in forms suitable for parenteral e.g. intravenous or intraarterial or enteral e.g. oral or rectal application for example for application directly into body cavities or for injection or infusion into the cardiovascular system. The formulation can be free of paramagnetic superparamagnetic ferromagnetic and or ferromagnetic contaminants. In some embodiments the administration is parenteral e.g. via bolus injection by intravenous or intra arterial injection or if the lungs are to be imaged by spray e.g. via aerosol spray.

For use in in vivo imaging the formulation can be isotonic or slightly hypertonic and or can be administered at a concentration sufficient to yield a 1 micromolar to 1 M concentration of the MR contrast agent in the imaging zone. Precise concentration and dosage can vary depending upon for example toxicity the organ targeting ability of the contrast agent or its delivery vehicle the tissue or organ being imaged and the administration route. In general any suitable concentration that yields a detectable signal can be used. In some embodiments the concentration can be between about 0.1 mM and about 10 M e.g. between about 0.2 mM and 1 M or between about 0.5 mM and about 500 mM. Formulations for intravenous or intraarterial administration can be between about 10 mM to 10 M e.g. between about 50 mM and about 500 mM. For bolus injections the concentration can be between about 0.1 mM and about 10 M e.g. between about 0.2 mM and about 10 M between about 0.5 mM and about 1 M between about 1.0 mM and about 500 mM or between about 10 mM and about 300 mM. Suitable aqueous carriers can include but are not limited to sodium chloride solution Ringer s solution dextrose solution dextrose and sodium chloride solution lactated Ringer s solution etc.

The contrast agent molecule with four non zero spin nuclei can have a structure as described hereinabove in Section II.A. In some embodiments the contrast agent has pharmaceutical activity or is conjugated to a molecule with pharmaceutical activity. Thus in some embodiments the imaging can provide information regarding drug delivery. In some embodiments the contrast agent can target particular biomolecules. For example the contrast agent can be a cyclooctyne derivative such as one of the cyclooctyne derivatives in Table 1 above. Such molecules can undergo a strain promoted azide alkyne reaction and can be used for labeling of particular biomolecules. Thus in some embodiments a cyclooctyne derivative can be used according to the presently disclosed methods as an in vivo molecular imaging agent. In some embodiments the signal from the contrast agent can vary e.g. the chemical shift can vary in response to physiological conditions e.g. pH temperature metabolism calcium concentration oxygen tension etc. . Information about the physiological conditions detected with the contrast agent can provide information about disease state. For example pH can be used as a general disease marker while metabolic information detected using the contrast agents can be used to detect cancer.

In some embodiments the contrast agent can be used in an NMR study and the target can be a chemical composition e.g. a non biochemical reaction mixture or an environmental sample such as a water sample from a lake stream river ocean residential water supply or industrial site . Therefore in some embodiments the contacting comprises mixing a contrast agent into an ex vivo sample such as a reaction aliquot or environmental sample. In some embodiments the contrast agent can be dissolved in a suitable solvent prior to the mixing.

So that the molecule remains sufficiently polarized the molecule can be contacted with e.g. administered to the target as soon as possible. Thus in some embodiments step is performed in close proximity to NMR or MRI equipment. Alternatively the hyperpolarized molecule can be stored and or transported to the target at low temperature e.g. in liquid nitrogen . Prior to administration to a subject the hyperpolarized molecule can be warmed to physiological temperatures e.g. using infrared or microwave radiation. After contact with the target the remaining steps i.e. step application of a first sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses e.g. to convert magnetization of singlet order step application of a second sequence of one or more radiofrequency pulses e.g. to convert singlet order to magnetization step generation of a NMR or MRI signal and step detection of the signal can be performed.

In other embodiments magnetization can be converted to singlet order at the site of hyperpolarization e.g. within the hyperpolarizer to avoid loss of magnetization. Therefore in some embodiments the molecule can be contacted to a target after step but before steps and .

In some embodiments the first and or second sequences are hydrogen only pulse sequences and the signal being generated or detected is a hydrogen signal. Thus in some embodiments the method can be performed in a conventional clinical MR imager without heteronuclear capability.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a contrast agent prepared according to the methods disclosed herein wherein the contrast agent can be used to enhance a signal in one of magnetic resonance imaging or magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

The following Examples have been included to provide guidance to one of ordinary skill in the art for practicing representative embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill can appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Studies with C diethyl oxylate DEO were performed. Briefly for thermal polarization spectra C DEO Isotec Inc. Miamisburg Ohio United States of America was dissolved in undegassed dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO dat a 2 M concentration and spectra were acquired on a Bruker 360 MHz 8.45 T magnet Bruker Biosciences Corporation Billerica Mass. United States of America with a 5 mm H and X broadband probe. Hyperpolarized spectra were acquired on a 7 T Bruker Biospect small animal MRI scanner Bruker Biosciences Corporation Billerica Mass. United States of America using samples containing 4 l C DEO Isotec Inc. Miamisburg Ohio United States of America 1 l DMSO Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. United States of America and 15 mM Finland Radical GE Healthcare Little Chalfont United Kingdom . Hyperpolarization was performed using a Hypersense hyperpolarizer Oxford Instruments Molecular Biotools Enysham United Kingdom after which the sample was dissolved in 3 ml additional DMSO at 140 C. to provide a solution of 0.8 mM hyperpolarized DEO. The liquid state polarization of the hyperpolarized DEO 40 s after dissolution was measured to be 3 300 times greater than thermal polarization.

To determine the relaxation rate of the singlet state a line was least squares fitted to a plot of ln S S as a function of . S Swas determined from the equation S S 3 300 sin 5 sin 90 S MSM S 5 acquire where S MSM is the signal after the M2S S2M sequence and S 5 acquire is the signal of a 5 acquire pulse sequence performed 100 ms before the M2S S2M sequence.

Simulated spectra C DEO were provided by initial prediction of chemical structure and nuclear parameters e.g. chemical shielding scalar couplings etc. by density functional theory DFT methods using Gaussian 09 Gaussian Inc. Wallingford Conn. United States of America . The SPINACH software library for simulation of spin dynamics see Hogben et al. 2011 208 179 was then used to simulate the effect of the M2S S2M sequence and predict the relaxation profile of the compound based on the predicted parameters assuming a 40 picosecond rotational correlation time.

For C DEO J 101.6 Hz and J 3.4 Hz e.g. between each carbon and the adjacent methylene proton . Interconversion between the triplet and singlet of C DEO was manifested in the C NMR spectra by an inversion of the two middle side peaks of the pentet signal. An interpulse delay of 4.92 ms induced the most efficient exchange between the carbon singlet and triplet manifolds in both the experimental and simulated spectra. Also in both experimental and simulated spectra the maximum conversion appeared after 45 echo pulses of the initial part of the M2S sequence i.e. n 45 n 2 22 . Signal decay after the complete M2S S2M sequence showed slow singlet order decay after an initial fast triplet signal decay both experimentally and via simulation. Based on the experimental data Tis around 50.6 s and Taround 22.2 s. Based on the simulation data Tis about 110.2 s and Tabout 17 s. Without being bound to any one theory these differences are believed to be due to the dipole dipole interactions with remote methyl protons that were disregarded in the simulation and the lack of degassing of the solvent.

1 3 Diphenyl C ethyne C DPA was prepared. Briefly C ethynylbenzene was combined with iodobenzene 1.05 eq in the presence of PdCl PPh 0.02 eq. and piperidine 3 eq. under an inert atmosphere and heated to 70 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 10 minutes and then the resulting semi solid was diluted with 20 ml of water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were washed with 1 N HCL water and brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. After evaporation of the solvent the crude product was purified by chromatography elution with hexanes to provide 80 mg 89 yield of white solid 1 3 diphenyl C ethyne.

For NMR studies the M2S S2M sequence of including three z gradients G G and G was used. More particularly for C DPA studies G 3 ms G 4.5 ms and G 11 ms. The z gradients have odd relationships to avoid gradient refocused echoes. Using the formulae described hereinabove for n and and the above noted J couplings for C DPA n was calculated as 47.9 and as 1.365 ms. Experimentally these values were adjusted to n 48 and 1.38 ms which includes 40 s for the composite pulses . For some studies proton decoupling was performed with continuous wave irradiation using a decoupling power of 0.5 Hz.

The normal one dimensional C NMR spectra of C DPA provided the expected pentet centered at 89.4 ppm. After the sequence of is applied with a 20 s delay between M2S and S2M where all of the pulses are applied at the C Larmor frequency the spectra shows a doublet as only the magnetization detected as the doublet is perturbed by the sequence and stored as singlet polarization. When the sequence of is performed with the pulses in the M2S applied at the H Larmor frequency and the remaining pulses in the C Larmor frequency the spectra is also a doublet however the signal intensity is about 4 times larger than when all of the pulses are applied at the C Larmor frequency. Without being bound to any one theory this is believed to be due to the higher initial H polarization compared to the initial C polarization. That the signal is also a doublet confirms that the source of the signal is Csinglet order.

Using simulations performed in a manner similar to those for C DEO Twas predicted to be 274.7 6.1 s and no difference was predicted when H decoupling was implemented. Using an isotropic rotational correlation time of 25 ps Twas 12 s at 8.45 T. The experimentally observed C DPA singlet state relaxation time at 8.45 T was 288.4 3.7 s without H decoupling and 267.1 5.4 s with decoupling between the M2S and S2M. Since n and are independent of field strength spectra and stimulations were repeated at different field strengths. Table 2 shows simulated i.e. theoretical and experimental Tand Tat various field strengths. Detection occurs on the S2M channel i.e. for an experiment type that has S2M H detection involves proton signal .

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

