---

title: Polyolefin asphalt modifiers, methods of modifying asphalt, asphalt compositions and methods of making
abstract: An asphalt additive comprising a primary rheology modifying component and a secondary rheology modifying component, and asphalt compositions and products having such additive incorporated therein. The primary rheology modifying component is generally a polymer, and the secondary rheology modifying component may comprise a petroleum micro-wax.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09617424&OS=09617424&RS=09617424
owner: LEHIGH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09617424
owner_city: Tucker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140615
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 1 311 445 filed Dec. 5 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 784 554 which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 399 960 filed Mar. 8 2009 now abandoned both prior applications herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to asphalt compositions asphalt modifiers methods of making and using such compositions and modifiers methods of modifying asphalt and asphalt products.

Asphalt is a sticky black and highly viscous liquid or semi solid that is present in most crude petroleum and in some natural deposits. In U.S. terminology asphalt or asphalt cement is the carefully refined residue from the distillation process of selected crude oils. Outside North America the product is called bitumen.

Asphalt binder is a key ingredient in pavements roofing and waterproofing applications. The primary use of asphalt is in road construction where it is used as the glue or binder for the aggregate particles and accounts for approximately 80 of the asphalt consumed in the United States. The most common type of flexible pavement surfacing in the United States is hot mix asphalt HMA that may also be known by many different names such as hot mix asphalt concrete AC or ACP asphalt blacktop or bitumen.

After use of asphalt in road construction roofing applications mainly in the form of roofing shingles account for most of the remaining asphalt consumption. Other uses include waterproofing applications.

Asphalt binder as produced by the refining process does not have the desired stiffness modulus for heavy load bearing for use in heavily trafficked pavements such as the Interstate Highways as well as heavily trafficked inner city streets. Until now polymers such as Styrene Butadiene Styrene SBS Styrene Butadiene Rubber SBR Ethylene Vinyl Acetate EVA Fischer Tropsch Waxes Elvaloy Ter Polymers Natural and Synthetic Latex and Crumbed Tire Rubber and also combinations of one or more of these have been used as asphalt binder modifiers.

Over the past seven years or so traditional Hot Mix has been under scrutiny due to hydrocarbon emissions energy cost and difficulties in compaction after long hauls and in cold weather paving. A new technology called Warm Mix asphalt emerged around year 2000 and was promoted by the National Pavement Association NAPA of the USA and this technology grew very rapidly and a large number of available Warm Mix technologies have emerged in recent years. Currently there are at least 20 such technologies available to the paving industry and the number is growing. The key benefits of Warm Mix are a reduction in asphalt aggregate mixing transportation lay down and paving temperatures by between 30 F. to 70 F. and providing benefits such as drastically reduced emissions during production drastically reduced emissions during paving energy savings facilitating longer hauls to paving sites wider paving window such as early paving in Spring and later paving into Fall and superior compaction over Hot Mix.

Adequate compaction is one of the prerequisites for a long lasting pavement and is difficult to achieve especially with highly modified stiff binders as well as with gap graded mixes such as Stone Mastic asphalt SMA and Open Graded Friction Courses OGFC . Another challenge in achieving adequate compaction is cold climate paving and long haul distances where the mixing plants are located far from the paving sites. Compaction is considered so important by Federal and State authorities that in many cases contractors are awarded bonuses for achieving the target compaction consistently. It is well documented from global field trial and commercial data that Warm Mix applications achieve consistent and on target compaction even in cold weather and with difficult mixes. Also enhanced compaction through Warm Mix applications a significant development since stiffer binders are being paved to carry the heavier loads and increasing numbers of vehicles on the roads.

Another major development that has emerged in recent years is the issue of personal heath and the related hydrocarbons exposure to paving crews and the motoring public. There is a strong movement to reduce such emissions and Warm Mix technology provides the scope to achieve the targeted new permissible emissions levels. Also in the context of Green House emissions there is a strong movement to limit greenhouse gas emissions by asphalt mixing plants as a contribution to limiting this major problem. In Europe the limitations are in place already forcing the paving industry to use green fuels and reduce usage of fuel making Warm Mix the technology of choice. In the USA the use of Warm Mix is gaining momentum at an accelerating pace.

The unpredictable surges in fuel cost have made the energy cost of running asphalt mixing plants a severe cost burden. Warm Mix achieves on average about a 20 savings in energy cost and this is a substantial reduction aside from the benefits of reduced stack emissions from the reduced volume of fuel required for the same tonnage of output by Warm Mix over Hot Mix.

Several technologies are presently in use or in trials or in development as Warm Mix technologies and these may be classified into the following categories a hard waxes such as Fischer Tropsch Waxes b surfactants such as a combination of anti strip agent and other organic additives and surfactants plus water solution c foaming technologies incorporating hydrated alumino silicates d foaming technologies incorporating the use of water either into a portion of the fine aggregate feed such as the Low Energy Asphalt process or direct atomization of water into the hot binder such as the Double Barrel Green process .

A major concern of the Warm Mix process is the risk of moisture damage and this is being studied with earnest to assess this risk potential. Firstly since Warm Mixes are produced at lower temperatures there remains the risk that the aggregates are not completely dried as with Hot Mix. Secondly there is the temptation to push Warm Mix to the ultimate limits without any proven data on moisture sensitivity and this may expose potential such risk even further. Thirdly the use of water as the foaming agent is questionable since it has long been established that if water is left on the surface of the aggregate it will reduce the adhesion of the asphalt binder on to the aggregate causing adhesive failure with time. Also any water present in the binder will reduce the cohesive strength of the asphalt binder over time and cause cohesive failure.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 267 085 issued May 12 1981 to Katoh et al. discloses injection materials for railroad track beds. Specifically in a railroad track bed an injected layer is formed between the railroad ties and the roadbed so as to protect the latter. The injected layer is composed of an injection material injected through openings formed in the tie. The injection material has a viscosity below 30 poise at a temperature not higher than 200.degree. C. before hardening and when hardened it has a compressive stress at 10 strain of 0.4 to 30 kg cm.sup.2 at a compressive strain rate at 40.degree. C. of 1.5 per minute. The blend material may include asphalt and a low molecular weight polypropylene having a molecular weight of 500 8000 or a high molecular weight polypropylene having a molecular weight of 10 000 100 000.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 952 412 to Greenberg et al. issued Sep. 14 1999 for pelletized rubber discloses rubber pellets made of an amount of vulcanized rubber and an amount of binder with the vulcanized rubber preferably being discarded rubber. Additionally discloses that the rubber pellets will preferably contain an amount of filler materials which are plastic or rubber or combinations thereof so that the preferred rubber pellet contains an amount of rubber equal to between about 50 and about 95 by weight of the rubber pellet an amount of filler material equal to between about 0 and about 45 by weight of the rubber pellet and an amount of binder equal to between about 5 and about 10 by weight of the rubber pellet. Further discloses that the rubber pellets are used in the formation of asphalt and are desirable because they provide necessary constituents to the asphalt and allow for elimination of equipment and separate ingredient addition steps from the asphalt formation process. Further discloses the invention is also desirable because it provides for a way to desirably dispose of waste rubber materials.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20020042477 published Apr. 11 2002 to Jelling discloses polymers which have been functionalized so as to be able to chemically react with polyamines to form adducts containing at least one or more groups consisting of amino amido imino imido or imidazloyl. Furthermore the invention teaches processes to prepare these adducts by solution melt or in situ methods. A further embodiment of the invention pertains to the use of polyolefin plastomers or elastomers elastomeric polyethylene polypropylene compositions or interpolymers of styrenes olefins which have been chemically modified so that they react with polyamines to confer to asphalt significantly improved desired chemical and physical properties.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 444 731 to Memon issued Sep. 3 2002 discloses a method for manufacturing modified asphalt characterized by adding a dispersion agent such as furfural or vegetable oil to a modifier material and then mixing the modifier material with asphalt. Further discloses that the dispersion agent facilitates dispersion of the modifier through the asphalt to form a homogeneous mixture. Further discloses that a first activator is added to the mixture to produce a devulcanized and stabilized asphalt material having improved rheological separation and solubility characteristics. Further discloses that a micro activator is also added to the mixture to improve the ductility of the modified asphalt. Further discloses that the modifier material comprises granular crumb rubber or polymer.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 588 974 issued Jul. 8 2003 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 913 416 issued Jul. 5 2005 both to Hildebrand et al. disclose bitumen or asphalt for the production of road surfaces road surfaces and method for the preparation of bitumen or asphalt. The bitumen or asphalt contains a proportion of paraffin obtained by Fischer Tropsch synthesis FT paraffin . Also disclosed are a road topping with the bitumen and a method for producing a corresponding road topping or roadway covering using the bitumen.

U.S. Patent Application No. 20060223916 by Stuart Jr. et al. discloses et al. Oct. 5 2006 a modified asphalt composition is provided comprising at least one plastomer at least one elastomer and asphalt. More specifically a modified asphalt composition is provided comprising an oxidized polyethylene a styrene butadiene styrene block copolymer and asphalt. A hot mix asphalt composition is also provided comprising the modified asphalt composition and aggregate. Processes for producing the modified asphalt composition and the hot mix asphalt composition is also provided as well as articles produced from these inventive compositions.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20070218250 published Sep. 20 2007 to Kiik et al. discloses roofing material that consists essentially of a substrate a hot melt material applied to one side of the substrate an asphalt material coating the other side of the substrate and roofing granules disposed on said asphalt material coated on the substrate. The hot melt material may be polyethylene polyethylene vinyl acetate polypropylene polyvinylidene chloride polyester nylon and mixtures thereof. The asphalt material may include non asphaltic filler.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20080153945 published Jun. 26 2008 to Prejean discloses a polymer modified asphalt composition comprising an elastomeric polymer blend a low molecular weight plastomer which may be a polyolefin wax and an unmodified asphalt. Asphalt compositions of the present invention demonstrate improved elasticity and stiffness compared to conventional polymer modified asphalt compositions.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20090053405 published Feb. 26 2009 to Martin discloses bituminous asphalt binder materials that are modified by the addition of crumb rubber or ground tire rubber and a cross linking agent are described. In addition methods are provided for producing a modified asphalt binder containing crumb rubber or ground tire rubber and a cross linking agent. The modified asphalt binders comprise neat asphalt crumb rubber one or more acids and a cross linking agent. Optionally the modified asphalt binder may include one or more polymer additives including polyethylene linear or crosslinked and polypropylene atactic or isotactic . The crumb rubber may be obtained from recycled truck and or automobile tires. The addition of crumb rubber in asphalt binders can improve the consistency and properties of the asphalt binders at high and low temperatures. In particular the modified asphalt binders of the present invention exhibit improved elastic behavior resulting in improved performance of roads or other surfaces paved using the modified asphalt binder. Road resistance to permanent deformation fatigue cracking and thermal cracking is improved by use of the modified asphalt binder.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20090054562 published Feb. 26 2009 to Martin discloses in a first aspect bituminous asphalt binder materials which are modified by the addition of crumb rubber or ground tire rubber are described and discloses in a second aspect the present invention is directed to methods of producing a modified asphalt binder containing crumb rubber or ground tire rubber. The modified asphalt binders comprise neat asphalt crumb rubber one or more synthetic polymers which may include polyethylene and one or more acids. The crumb rubber may be obtained from recycled truck and or automobile tires.

The stability of polymer modified asphalt is generally determined by the Separation test cigar tube test ASTM D 7173 Determining Separation Tendency of Polymer from Polymer Modified Asphalt. The closer the temperature between the top and the bottom of the cigar tube the higher the stability. The guidelines as issued by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials AASHTO are utilized in many asphalt road formulations. The AASHTO has standardized test designations in the form of T for standard laboratory specifications. For example the AASHTO Cigar Tube Test is T . SBS is regarded as the gold standard benchmark for modifying asphalt with SBS modified asphalt having a cigar test of 2 C. 3.6 F. temperature differential. Recent price spikes and shortages of SBS have led to a search for other polymers as replacements for SBS in order to modify asphalt. However while cheaper and or more available replacement polymers can be found the stability of the replacement polymers has generally been disappointing. For example ground tire rubber GTR modified asphalt will have a cigar tube test result of 30 F. difference or worse. Some departments of transportation will allow a cigar test result as high as 15 F. while others sometimes waive the 2 C. requirement entirely. However future trends point to the enforcement of 2 C. 3.6 F. cigar tube standard meaning that either SBS will have to be used or a suitable replacement found.

All of the patents publications articles and or materials cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference.

However in spite of the above advancements there still exists a need in the art for asphalt compositions and products and to methods of making and using such compositions and products.

This and other needs in the art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this specification including its drawings and claims.

It is an object of the present invention to provide asphalt compositions and products and to methods of making and using such compositions and products.

This and other objects of the present invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this specification including its drawings and claims.

According to one non limiting embodiment of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising petroleum asphalt a polyolefin component and a wax component.

According to another non limiting embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising contacting a petroleum asphalt with a polyolefin component and a wax component to form a treated asphalt.

According to even another non limiting embodiment of the present invention there is provided an asphalt additive comprising polyolefin component and a wax component.

According to still another non limiting embodiment of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt a second component comprising particles comprising a polyolefin and a binder wherein the second component is dispersed within the first component.

According to yet another non limiting embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles comprising a polyolefin component and a binder component to form a treated asphalt.

According to still another non limiting embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of making an asphalt additive comprising forming particles from a melted mixture comprising a polyolefin and a binder.

Various sub embodiments of the above embodiments include sub embodiments wherein the polyolefin component comprises at least one selected from the group of C2 to C36 polyolefin homo polymers blends of two or more such polymers and copolymers of two or more such polymers and the binder component may comprise a petroleum micro wax derived from crude oil refining processes wherein the polyolefin component comprises a melting point range from 115 C. to 250 C. wherein the polyolefin component comprises at least one selected from the group of polypropylene homo polymers and ethylene propylene copolymers and the wax component comprises a petroleum micro wax derived from crude oil refining processes wherein the wax component comprises a melting point in the range of 150 F. 66 C. to 220 F. 104 C. and or wherein the binder component is selected from the group consisting of Polyolefin waxes Polyethylene By Product Waxes Fischer Tropsch Hard Wax SBS SB SEBS SBR Natural and Synthetic Latex crumb Tire Rubber and Elvaloy Terpolymer Trinidad Lake Asphalt TLA Gilsonite Montan Waxes tall oil and tall oil derived products both solids and liquids vegetable oils synthetic and petroleum micro crystalline waxes and natural Rubber. In some non limiting embodiments the binder comprises a wax.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt and a second component comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder wherein the second component is dispersed within the first component wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of at least one polymer alpha olefin selected from the group consisting of polyethylene homopolymer homopolymers formed from olefins having more than 3 carbon atoms and copolymers formed from 2 or more different olefins having 2 or more carbon atoms and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin component and a binder component to form a treated asphalt wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of at least one polymer alpha olefin selected from the group consisting of polyethylene homopolymer homopolymers formed from olefins having more than 3 carbon atoms and copolymers formed from 2 or more different olefins having 2 or more carbon atoms and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt a second component dispersed in the asphalt comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and a third component dispersed in the asphalt selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of at least one polymer alpha olefin selected from the group consisting of polyethylene homopolymer homopolymers formed from olefins having more than 3 carbon atoms and copolymers formed from 2 or more different olefins having 2 or more carbon atoms and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with a first component and a second component wherein the first component comprises particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and the second component is selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of at least one polymer alpha olefin selected from the group consisting of polyethylene homopolymer homopolymers formed from olefins having more than 3 carbon atoms and copolymers formed from 2 or more different olefins having 2 or more carbon atoms and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt and a second component comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder wherein the second component is dispersed within the first component wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin component and a binder component to form a treated asphalt wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt a second component dispersed in the asphalt comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and a third component dispersed in the asphalt selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with a first component and a second component wherein the first component comprises particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and the second component is selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite terpolymer and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt and a second component comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder wherein the second component is dispersed within the first component wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising Contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin component and a binder component to form a treated asphalt wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt a second component dispersed in the asphalt comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and a third component dispersed in the asphalt selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with a first component and a second component to form a modified asphalt wherein the first component comprises particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and the second component is selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene by product waxes petroleum micro waxes Fischer Tropsch hard wax Trinidad Lake asphalt TLA gilsonite and montan waxes.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt and a second component comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder wherein the second component is dispersed within the first component wherein the resin is polypropylene homopolymer and wherein the binder comprises a terpolymer comprising at least one of glycidyl functionality glycidyl acrylate functionality or epoxide functionality.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin component and a binder component to form a treated asphalt wherein the resin is polypropylene homopolymer and wherein the binder comprises a terpolymer comprising at least one of glycidyl functionality glycidyl acrylate functionality or epoxide functionality.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt a second component comprising particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and a third component dispersed in the asphalt selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is polypropylene homopolymer and wherein the binder comprises a terpolymer comprising at least one of glycidyl functionality glycidyl acrylate functionality or epoxide functionality.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with a first component and a second component wherein the first component comprises particles formed from a melted mixture of a resin and a binder and the second component is selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is polypropylene homopolymer and wherein the binder comprises a terpolymer comprising at least one of glycidyl functionality glycidyl acrylate functionality or epoxide functionality.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt and a second component comprising particles of resin wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of polyalphaolefins ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and the resin particles have a diameter less than about 420 microns.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of treating a petroleum asphalt the method comprising contacting a petroleum asphalt with particles of resin component wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of polyalphaolefins ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and the resin particles have a diameter less than about 420 microns.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided an asphalt comprising a first component comprising a petroleum asphalt a second component dispersed in the asphalt comprising resin particles and a third component dispersed in the asphalt selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of polyalphaolefins ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and the resin particles have a diameter less than about 420 microns.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with a first component and a second component to form a modified asphalt wherein the first component comprises resin particles and the second component is selected from the group consisting of ground tire rubber and polymers of styrene and butadiene wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of polyalphaolefins ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer styrene ethylene butylene styrene natural rubber synthetic rubber styrene butadiene rubbers reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality and the resin particles have a diameter less than about 420 microns.

According to another non limiting of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with an additive to form a modified asphalt wherein the additive comprises ground tire rubber and resin wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality.

This invention describes an additive used as an asphalt binder modifier that in some embodiments includes a polymer component that is the primary rheology modifying component and a secondary rheology modifying component. In some non limiting embodiments of the present invention the primary rheology modifying component and the secondary rheology modifying component are melted together into a single liquid phase before being formed into a solid asphalt additive. In other non limiting embodiments the additive comprises only the primary rheology modifying component s . This invention may find applicability with any type of asphalt including straight asphalt and blown asphalt. As a more particular non limiting example this invention finds applicability in paving applications with straight asphalt. As non limiting examples the additive may be in some sort of solid form non limiting examples of which include a one pack additive in pastille bead pill or granule form. In some non limiting embodiments the additive provides for Pavement and Roofing applications that meet the target Performance Grading PG in terms of binder stiffness as measured by the Dynamic Shear Rheometer or Softening Point and Low Temperature flexibility as measured by Bending Beam Rheometer or Fraas Breaking point or Mandrel Bending Test . Further this invention may be formulated by specific design to produce the desired binder within the Warm Mix Asphalt concept for Paving applications as well as reduced temperature and enhanced application speeds for Roofing applications. In other non limiting embodiments the additive of the present invention functions to stabilize ground tire rubber in asphalt as measured by the cigar tube test.

Some embodiments of the present invention may also find use in providing roofing and paving materials having improved UV resistance.

Some non limiting methods of the present invention may obviate the need for grinding of polymers at the point of mixing with bitumen.

Some non limiting embodiments of the present invention may facilitate the addition of crumb rubber to asphalt.

Some non limiting embodiments of the present invention may prevent or reduce phasing of crumb rubber in asphalt formulations.

In some embodiments the combined effect of the additive package may be to reduce the asphalt aggregate mixing transportation lay down and or compaction temperatures by between 10 C. 50 F. to 32 C. 90 F. as a non limiting example. Further in certain embodiments this invention may provide the benefit of enhancing the useful temperature range of the modified asphalt binder. This additive may be used to modify the asphalt binder first and then add to the aggregate mix or it may be added directly to the aggregate mixing drum whether a continuous drum mixer or a batch mixer. Some embodiments provide ease of transportation storage and handling.

The present invention utilizes one or more polymers as the primary rheology modifying component. In some non limiting embodiments this primary rheology modifying component may be a polyolefin homo polymer or copolymer resins. In some non limiting embodiments the polyolefin homopolymer or copolymer is a poly olefin PAO which may be formed from polymerizing same in the case homopolymer or 2 or more different in the case of copolymer C2 to C36 olefins i.e. olefins having from 2 to 36 carbon atoms . The PAO copolymers may be formed by mixing 2 or more already formed PAO s by copolymerizing 2 or more different PAO s by copolymerizing 2 or more different olefins or any combination of the foregoing. In non limiting examples these polyolefin resins may include polyethylene PE homopolymers polypropylene PP homo polymer and polypropylene polyethylene PP PE co polymer resins and by product waxes in asphalt modification. Since these resins have a substantially higher melting point above 140 C. than the base asphalt binder approximately 60 C. the use of such resins has been excluded since the asphalt binder would degrade and become a fume emission hazard at such high temperatures. The technology described herein is novel in producing a compound of certain polymers as a non limiting example the PE homo polymer PP Homo polymer and or PP plus PE co polymer such that the compound is uniquely dispersible in asphalt binder at the safe and usual operating temperatures. In some non limiting embodiments the resin is combined with a binder in some embodiments melted together . Without being limited by theory applicants believe that when the particles of polyolefin resin binder or in general the primary rheology modifying component are heated to the melt point of the binder or in general the secondary rheology modifying component the binder materials quickly melt and physically partition the resin molecules such that the resin will fall apart in the hot warm asphalt base and disperse quickly and homogenously. In this way the additive value in certain embodiments may be realized to bump the high temperature PG to the desired level whilst at the same time taking the Low temperature PG value to the desired grade i.e. the unique ability to stretch the PG box or escalate the useful performance temperature range of the asphalt binder.

A non limiting example of suitable polyolefin materials include polyethylene PE homo polymer or polypropylene PP homo polymer having a molecular weight in the range of about 20 000 to about 200 000. A non limiting example of suitable PP plus polyethylene PE co polymer includes those having a molecular weight in the range of about 20 000 to about 200 000.

A second aspect of this novel invention is that the systems described herein meets the requirements of Warm Mix Asphalt Paving .

This invention describes an asphalt bitumen additive formulation that may be used in combination with modified or unmodified asphalt binder and aggregates to produce an aggregate paving mixture used to pave roads pavements. In some non limiting embodiments the primary rheology modifying component comprises a polyolefin homo polymer and or copolymer in any ratio. Some non limiting embodiments employ PE homo polymer resin PP Homo polymer resin or PP plus PE co polymer resin or combinations of these in any ratio. As a non limiting example the resins described herein have a melting point range of 266 F. 130 C. to 482 F. 250 C. and above.

While the primary rheology modifying component i.e. resin component is mostly described herein in terms of polyolefins the primary rheology component should not be considered so limited as there are other polymers that are believed to also be useful as the primary rheology modifying component in the present invention including but not limited to ethylene vinyl acetate polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer SB styrene ethylene butylene styrene SEBS natural rubber synthetic rubber most commonly styrene butadiene rubbers SBR derived from the copolymerization of styrene and 1 3 butadiene but may also include synthetic rubbers are prepared from isoprene 2 methyl 1 3butadiene chloroprene 2 chloro 1 3 butadiene and isobutylene methylpropene with a small percentage of isoprene for cross linking reactive elastomeric terpolymers RET a non limiting example of which includes alkylene alky acrylate glycidyl acrylate terpolymers polymers having glycidyl or glycidyl acrylate functionality a non limiting example of which includes alkylene alkylacrylate glycidyl acrylate terpolymers and polymers having an epoxide functionality. A non limiting example of a suitable alkylene alklyacrylate glycidyl acrylate terpolymers includes ethylene butyl acrylate glycidyl methacrylate tepolymers a commercial example of which are Elvaloy terpolymers.

In some embodiments the primary rheology modifying component will comprise at least one PAO selected from the group consisting of homopolymers and copolymers formed from olefins having 2 or more carbon atoms.

In some embodiments the primary rheology modifying component will comprise at least one selected from the group consisting of polyethylene homopolymer homopolymers formed from olefins having more then 3 carbon atoms and copolymers formed from 2 or more different olefins having 2 or more carbon atoms.

As a non limiting example certain embodiments of the present invention utilize as the primary rheology modifying component a reactive elastomeric terpolymer which in some embodiments may be in combination with polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer SB styrene ethylene butylene styrene SEBS and styrene butadiene rubbers SBR .

As another non limiting example certain embodiments of the present invention utilize as the primary rheology modifying component polymers having glycidyl methacrylate functionality which in some embodiments may be in combination with polystyrene styrene butadiene block copolymer SB styrene ethylene butylene styrene SEBS and styrene butadiene rubbers SBR .

Polymers with epoxide functionality include those derived from bisphenols non limiting examples of which include bisphenol A bisphenol AP bisphenol AF bisphenol B bisphenol BP bisphenol C bisphenol E bisphenol F bisphenol G bisphenol M bisphenol S bisphenol P bisphenol PH bisphenol TMC bisphenol Z.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide the use of a secondary rheology modifying component having a lower melting point than the primary rheology modifying component that when the additive is subjected to the hot warm asphalt base the secondary rheology modifying component s quickly melts and physically partitions the primary rheology modifying component s such that the primary rheology modifying component s will fall apart in the hot warm asphalt base and disperse quickly and homogenously. The main requirement of the secondary rheology modifying component is that it have a lower melting point that the primary rheology modifying component and will quickly melt when the additive is introduced to the hot warm asphalt. The quicker that the secondary rheology modifying component can melt than the primary rheology modifying component when the additive is exposed to the hot warm asphalt base the better. It is believed that a wide range of polymers may function as the secondary rheology modifying component.

As non limiting examples some embodiments may employ a secondary rheology modifying component which may comprise a petroleum micro wax obtained from conventional crude refining. This secondary rheology modifying component or binder for the primary rheology modifying component may act as a partitioning dispersion agent for the primary rheology modifying component and can be any one of waxes vegetable oils and most hydrocarbons in the melt point range of 70 C to 135 C.

This secondary rheology modifying component may be referred to herein as a binder dispersant or binding dispersing or partitioning agent. As a non limiting example a suitable wax may have a melting point range between 140 F. 60 C. to 239 F. 115 C. . In some non limiting embodiments it may be at times be desired to use a blend of two or more separate micro waxes in the above melt range to achieve the desired rheology properties. The dispersing effect may also be achieved through the use of an additional component that is either Crude Tall Oil CTO or an oxidized Tall Oil Pitch. Non limiting examples of other secondary rheology modifiers that may be used alone or in any combination may be Low Molecular Weight PE Waxes Fischer Tropsch Waxes Petroleum Paraffin Waxes Montan Wax SBS SBR Natural and Synthetic Latex Trinidad Lake Asphalt Gilsonite and other natural asphalts Crumbed Tire Rubber etc. As a non limiting example a polyethylene PE wax having a molecular weight in the range of about 650 2500 although a PE wax having a molecular weight greater or less than that range may also be suitable. As another non limiting example a Fischer Tropsch wax having a molecular weight in the range of about 450 1200 although a Fischer Tropsche wax having a molecular weight greater or less than that range may also be suitable. Another non limiting example of suitable secondary rheology modifying components includes reactive elastomeric terpolymers RET a non limiting example of which includes alkylene alky acrylate glycidyl acrylate terpolymers polymers having glycidyl or glycidyl acrylate functionality a non limiting example of which includes alkylene alkylacrylate glycidyl acrylate terpolymers and polymers having an epoxide functionality. A non limiting example of a suitable alkylene alklyacrylate glycidyl acrylate terpolymers includes ethylene butyl acrylate glycidyl methacrylate tepolymers a commercial example of which are Elvaloy terpolymers.

 a In some non limiting embodiments the reduction in viscosity of the asphalt binder may be achieved through the combination of rheology viscosity modifiers described above that in turn reduces the viscosity of the aggregate mix making it possible to compact the mix at the lower temperatures in the Warm Mix range.

 b In some non limiting embodiments the CTO and or oxidized tall oil pitch acts as a dispersing agent for the primary rheology modifying component as a non limiting example polyolefin homo polymer and co polymer resins and may further reduce the viscosity of the additive package thereby contributing to further improvements in compaction and increasing the useful paving window.

 c In some non limiting embodiments the combination of the primary rheology modifying component as a non limiting example polyolefin homo polymer and co polymer resins may contribute to the binder stiffness at the pavement performance temperature producing the effect of a performance grading grade bump.

 d In some non limiting embodiments the combination of micro waxes provides the effect of viscosity reduction at the paving temperatures while contributing to the binder and pavement flexibility at Low Temperatures during winter periods. In this way the stiffness of the binder may be offset at Low Temperature Performance.

 e In some non limiting embodiments the CTO and oxidized CTO may perform as adhesive agents linking the asphalt binder to the aggregate surfaces.

Different combinations of the secondary rheology modification component may be used to achieve the specific desired specification property such that several grades of the additive may be commercially produced.

The additive invention described above can easily be used in any convential Hot Mix asphalt to reduce the asphalt mix production transportation paving and compaction temperatures. As a non limiting examples to reduce temperatures by between 10 C. 50 F. to 32 C. 90 F. . The additive package may be first added to the asphalt binder and the so modified binder may be added to the aggregate mix in a continuous drum mixer or batch mixer. Also the additive package may be added directly to the aggregate mix in a continuous drum mixer or a batch mixer immediately after the binder comes into contact with the aggregate.

The additive package may also be used for surface dressings such as hot applied chip seals slurry seals and such surface dressings as a viscosity reducer and to eliminate the use of volatile cut back solvents and associated fume emissions. Such Warm Mix applications may also include coatings and sealants for moisture protection as well as solvent and chemical resistance mixtures.

 1 In a non limiting example for the manufacture of roofing shingles the asphalt binder may be modified with the described additive package to meet the target specifications Softening Point Penetration Flash Point Ductility Tensile Strength and or UV resistance etc. and may then be coated onto the non woven substrate usually glass fiber .

 2 In a non limiting example for the manufacture of Built Up Roofing BUR grades or Mopping Grades the additive package described herein may be used to modify the asphalt binder to achieve the desired specifications Softening Point Penetration Flash point Ductility Tensile Strength etc. and then used for Hot Applied or Emulsion Applied coatings.

 3 In a non limiting example the additive package may be used to manufacture adhesive coatings for roofing applications.

 4 In a non limiting example the additive package described herein may be used in asphalt feed stocks prior to blowing to harden the binder through oxidation. As a non limiting example the additive package will be present in the at 0.5 up to 10 range by weight although more than 10 and less than 0.5 are also believed to be beneficial. The benefits of this additive are reduced batch cycle times for example by 20 to 35 less aging of the blown binder lower viscosity and workability of the blown binder and easier achievement of target specifications. Also this technology may enable the blowing methods to operate on a wider available pool of asphalts including fluxes and paving grades to achieve the same target specifications. In some embodiments in which the blowing operation can actually be operated at lower blowing temperatures a wider pool of asphalts may become available for blowing.

The polyolefin homo polymer and copolymer utilized herein may be obtained by any suitable method and means using any suitable catalyst as is well known in the polyolefin art. As a non limiting example suitable polyolefin may be derived from olefins having from about 2 to about 36 carbon atoms or may comprise blends of two or more of such polyolefins or may comprises copolymers of two or more such olefins. As a non limiting example PP homo polymer and PP plus PE co polymer may be derived from the manufacture of PP resins either as a by product stream s or as intermediate grades during the changeover form one grade to the next. These streams may be collected from the process and segregated into several qualities and which may be combined again to yield product that is suitable for specific asphalt applications either as such or in combination with the secondary rheology modifying agent described herein.

As a non limiting embodiment when manufactured as a compound the resin or by product wax content of the additive package may comprise in the range of 5 to 95 and preferably in the range of 50 to 85 . The Melting Point of the resin or by product wax component is in the range of 120 C 248 F to 200 C 392 F and preferably in the range of 130 C 266 F to 175 C 347 F .

In some non limiting embodiment the resin component may comprise a Needle Penetration at 77 F. in the range of 0 to 10 units being 0.1 mm .

The resin component or primary rheology portion serves as a one component of the rheology viscosity modifier and may also contribute to the overall binder stiffness at the pavement performance temperature as measured by the Dynamic Shear Rheometer.

Any suitable petroleum wax may be utilized in the present invention as desired. As a non limiting example the petroleum micro wax may be derived from crude oil refining processes. One non limiting example of a suitable petroleum was has a melting point in the range of 150 F. 66 C. to 220 F. 104 C. . A combination of two or more separate micro wax streams may also be used at times to achieve the desired effect. In some embodiments the micro wax may serve a dual purpose of viscosity modifier as well as to impart Low Temperature Performance flexibility to the asphalt binder and pavement mix.

The content of micro wax in the additive package can be in the range of from 2 5 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 wt to 50 60 70 80 90 95 and 99 wt . As non limiting examples in the range of about 2 to 50 wt and in the range of 10 to 20 wt .

In general microcrystalline waxes are a type of wax produced by de oiling petrolatum as part of the petroleum refining process. In contrast to the more familiar paraffin wax which contains mostly unbranched alkanes microcrystalline wax contains a higher percentage of isoparaffinic branched hydrocarbons and naphthenic hydrocarbons. It is characterized by the fineness of its crystals in contrast to the larger crystal of paraffin wax. It consists of high molecular weight saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons. It is generally darker more viscous denser tackier and more elastic than paraffin waxes and has a higher molecular weight and melting point. The elastic and adhesive characteristics of microcrystalline waxes are related to the non straight chain components which they contain. Typical microcrystalline wax crystal structure is small and thin making them more flexible than paraffin wax.

Microcrystalline waxes when produced by wax refiners are typically produced to meet a number of ASTM specifications. These include congeal point ASTM D938 needle penetration D1321 color ASTM D6045 and viscosity ASTM D445 . Microcrystalline waxes can generally be put into two categories laminating grades and hardening grades. The laminating grades typically have a melt point of 140 175 F and needle penetration of 25 or above. The hardening grades will range from about 175 200 F and have a needle penetration of 25 or below. Color in both grades can range from brown to white depending on the degree of processing done at the refinery level.

Microcrystalline waxes are derived from the refining of the heavy distillates from lubricant oil production. This by product then must be de oiled at a wax refinery. The product then may have its odor removed and color removed which typically starts as a brown or dark yellow . This is usually done by means of a filtration method or by hydro treating the wax material.

A non limiting example of a suitable crude oil derived micro wax may have the following properties Drop Melt Point ASTM D 127 in the range of 150 F. 66 C. to 220 F. 104 C. and Kinematic Viscosity ASTM D445 at 212 F. 100 C. in the range 10 to 320 centi stokes.

Any suitable Crude Tall Oil and Oxidized Tall Oil Pitch Component may be utilized in the present invention. As a non limiting example the crude tall oil and oxidized tall oil pitch component can be in the range of 2 to 20 of the formulation and preferably in the range of 2 to 10 of the formulation. The function of the oxidized tall oil pitch is as a dispersant for the resins so that it is evenly distributed in the final asphalt mixture to impart a consistent stiffness modulus to the asphalt binder as well as to the asphalt mix.

As used herein including the claims tall oil materials includes man made and naturally occurring tall oil tall oil pitch tall oil blends and similar tall oil products. Tall oil is a liquid resinous material that may be obtained in the digestion of wood pulp from paper manufacture. Commercial tall oils comprise a complex of fatty acids resin acids sterols higher alcohols waxes and hydrocarbons. The acid components also may be present as the esters thereof.

A common source of tall oil that may be used in the practice of the present invention is from pine trees. Besides cellulose tall oil contains fatty acids esters rosin acids sterols terpenes carbohydrates and lignin. These may be separated when wood is converted to paper pulp by the sulfide or Kraft process. The acids may then be neutralized in an alkaline digestion liquor. The mixture of rosin and fatty acid soap may be recovered by subsequent acidification that releases free rosin and fatty acids the major constituents of tall oil.

A non limiting example of a suitable oxidized tall oil pitch may have the following properties Softening Point in the range of 125 F. 52 C. to 220 F. 104 C. and Needle Penetration value at 25 C. in the range of 2 to 40 and preferably in the range of 5 to 20.

Some embodiments of the additive package of the present invention described herein may provide one or more of the following advantages over other Warm Mix products 

 a Some non limiting embodiments may be in the form of a one pack product that can be easily transported globally and handled to be added either to the asphalt binder and then to the aggregate mix as modified binder or it may be added directly to the aggregate mixing drum.

 b In some non limiting embodiments the aggregate particles may be evenly coated with binder due to the lower surface tension imparted by the additive package to the binder. Also the aggregate coated binder is not as sticky as conventionally mixed aggregate and this influences the workability of the aggregate mix and makes to less sticky onto transportation and paving equipment. Also the compacted pavement may support traffic quickly without having any issues of stickiness onto traffic wheels.

 c In some non limiting embodiments the high temperature PG ie. the stiffness modulus of the additive modified binder may be improved without or with little degrading of the Low Temperature PG.

 d In some non limiting embodiments the additive may be detected and quantified in binder samples or aggregate mix samples or field core samples at any time during the life of the pavement and this is unlike most Warm Mix technologies that merely dissipate and can no longer be detected with passage of time.

Some embodiments of the present invention may incorporate one or more other Rheology Modifying Components. Non limiting examples of such components may be as follows.

1. Polyethylene By Product Waxes polyethylene waxes or PE waxes in the melt Point range of 100 C to 160 C. The content of the by product PE wax can be in the range of 5 to 50 and preferably 5 to 20 . The purpose of the by product PE wax is as a dispersant for the resin component as well as viscosity modifier.

2. Fischer Tropsch Hard Wax in the melting point range of 70 C to 115 C in the same content as described in 1 above.

3. SBS styrene butadiene styrene SB styrene butadiene SEBS styrene ethylene butadiene styrene SBR styrene butadiene rubber Natural and Synthetic Latex Crumb Tire Rubber and a polymer having glycidyl acrylate functionality as a non limiting example Elvaloy Terpolymer in the same content as described in 1 above. Elvaoly terpolymer is a commercially available ethylene butyl acrylate BA glycidyl methacrylate GMA terpolymer from DuPont and may have compositions such as 28 wt BA and 5.3 wt GMA or 20 wt BA and 9 wt GMA the balance being ethylene in both .

4. Trinidad Lake Asphalt TLA Gilsonite Montan Waxes and natural Rubber in the same content as described in 1 above.

A non limiting example of the present invention includes first contacting the polymeric primary rheology modifying component and the dispersant secondary rheology modifying component together prior to adding either to the asphalt. As a non limiting example the polymer and the dispersant may both be melted and then thoroughly mixed together before being reformed into particles which may then be added to the asphalt. The melting may be accomplished separately with the melted materials then added together or may be accomplished separately but simultaneously with the melted materials then added together or may be accomplished simultaneously with the unmelted materials contacted together and then melted or may be accomplished sequentially with the melted materials then added together or may be accomplished by first melting one than contacting it with the unmelted one and then further melting of both. As another non limiting example polymer particles may be mixed into the melted dispersant with this mixture then formed into particles which may then be added to the asphalt. As even another non limiting example a dry mix of polymer particles and dispersant particles may first be formed and this mix added directly to the asphalt or the dry mix may then be melted and formed into particles which may then be added to the asphalt. As a further non limiting example the invention may also include use of a cross linking pre cursor is incorporated into the mixture to initiate active sites on the PP molecule chain and create a network structure in asphalt to give unique stiffness modulus properties separation stability and UV light protection. In the practice of the present invention selected additives are chosen that are effective dispersing agents that partition between the PP molecules and thereby cause the PP to fall apart and disperse in asphalt binders. The polymer and dispersant may be formed into particles utilizing any suitable method apparatus including extrusion and subsequent cutting pelletizing and the like. As a non limiting embodiment pellets may be formed from a mixture of a polyolefin and a wax or in general from the primary rheology modifying component s and secondary rheology modifying component s . A melted mixture may be formed by melting the polyolefin and wax together in any desired order i.e. sequentially melting one and then melting the other and then mixing sequentially melting one and then mixing with the other unmelted and then melting the mixture simultaneously apart and then mixing simultaneously together or any other suitable order arrangement . A solid form of the additive non limiting examples of which include particles pellets pills powder pastilles beads granules or the like may be formed by any suitable method with any suitable apparatus including extrusion pelletizing cutting chopping and the like.

In even another non limiting embodiment pellets may be formed from a mixture of a polyethylene homopolymer polypropylene homopolymer or polypropylene polyethylene copolymer and a wax or in general from the primary rheology modifying component s and secondary rheology modifying component s . A melted mixture may be formed by melting the polymer and wax together in any desired order i.e. sequentially melting one and then melting the other and then mixing sequentially melting one and then mixing with the other unmelted and then melting the mixture simultaneously apart and then mixing simultaneously together or any other suitable order arrangement . Particles pellets pills powder pastilles beads granules or the like may be formed by any suitable method with any suitable apparatus including extrusion pelletizing cutting chopping and the like.

In still another non limiting embodiment pellets may be formed from a mixture of a polypropylene homopolymer or polypropylene polyethylene copolymer and a polyethylene wax or a petroleum micro wax or in general from the primary rheology modifying component s and secondary rheology modifying component s . A melted mixture may be formed by melting the polymer and wax together in any desired order i.e. sequentially melting one and then melting the other and then mixing sequentially melting one and then mixing with the other unmelted and then melting the mixture simultaneously apart and then mixing simultaneously together or any other suitable order arrangement . Particles pellets pills powder pastilles beads granules or the like may be formed by any suitable method with any suitable apparatus including extrusion pelletizing cutting chopping and the like. In some non limiting embodiments the binder may comprise a polyethylene wax. In some non limiting embodiments the binder may comprise a petroleum micro wax.

It is believed that any known asphalt composition or product may be made using the additives of the present invention to replace part or all of the petroleum based asphalt binder therein. Non limiting examples include blown asphalt and straight asphalt. As a non limiting example a paving application may be formed utilizing a straight asphalt. The known equipment and methods of making the known asphalt compositions and products are believed to be sufficient for making the asphalt compositions and products of the present invention in which part or all of the petroleum based asphalt has been partially or wholly replaced by modified asphalt of the present invention.

In addition to the above embodiments the present invention may also include the following non limiting embodiments.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include a one product additive package formulation for asphalt modification which comprises PP homo polymer or in general any of the primary rheology modifying component s plus PE by product wax and or petroleum micro wax and or CTO and or Oxidized Tall Oil Pitch and or any of the Other Rheology Modifying Agents above. In some embodiments the additive may increase the useful performance temperature range of the asphalt binder which may already be modified or not.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above which may be used as the Warm Mix Asphalt Paving concept.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above and which may be used in roofing applications.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the PE Wax described above that is derived as a byproduct wax from polyethylene manufacture in the Softening Point range of 215 F. 102 C. to 275 F. 135 C. Needle penetration value at 25 C. in the range of 2 to 10 and Brookfield Viscosity at 300 F. in the range of 15 to 300 cps.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the Petroleum Micro Wax described in the invention above that is derived from crude oil refining and has a Drop Melt Point ASTM D127 in the range of 150 F. 66 C. to 220 F. 104 C. and Kinematic Viscosity ASTM D445 at 212 F. 100 C. in the range of 10 to 320 Centi Stokes.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the oxidized tall oil pitch described above with a Softening Point in the range of 125 F. 52 C. to 220 F. 104 C. .

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above used with neat asphalt binder or with polymer modified binder including modified asphalt that has been modified with any of Styrene Butadiene Styrene Styrene Butadiene Rubber Natural Latex Rubber Synthetic Latex Rubber Crumbed Tire Rubber Ethylene Vinyl Acetate Terpolymers and Atactic Polypropylene .

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package above used in roofing applications including shingles rolls mop on grades adhesives and sealants to reduce working temperatures and enhance workability.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above used in hot applied surface dressings including chip seals slurry seals joint sealants crack sealants etc.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include a Warm Mix asphalt mix formulation for the pavement of road surfaces where the formulation comprises of a mixture of bitumen and aggregates and between 0.2 to 30 by weight of the additive package based on weight of the asphalt binder content.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the formulation of above wherein the temperature of compaction of the aggregate mix is 10 F. to 90 F. below conventional Hot Mix asphalt.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the asphalt formulation above where the additive package may be added to the drum mixer or batch mixer directly or added to the asphalt binder and then introduced into the drum mixer or batch mixer as additive modified binder.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the Warm Mix asphalt of above wherein the additive package is added to produce a Warm Mix aggregate and also include embodiments wherein the individual components of the additive package are added to produce the Warm Mix aggregate.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the additive package described above for use in co extrusion with polymers and wax additives to render these more easily dispersible in asphalt binders. These co extrusion components may be any of the primary and or secondary rheology modifying components mentioned above.

Non limiting embodiments of the present invention include the use of the any of the present invention for asphalt modification for Pavement and Roofing applications.

The additives of the present invention may be formed by a wide variety of methods utilizing a wide variety of apparatus. All of the additives herein may be utilized in combination with ground tire rubber GTR or any recycled rubber material. In some embodiments it is necessary to stabilize the GTR in asphalt which may be accomplished by the addition of the above described reactive elastomeric terpolymer and or with the above described polymers having a glycidyl or glycidyl acrylate functionality a non limiting example of such functionality includes glycidyl methacrylate functionality and a non limiting example of such a polymer includes ethylene butyl acrylate glycidyl methacrylate terpolymer a commercial example of which is Elvaloy terpolymer available from DuPont . Further it is believed that any of the polymers mentioned herein as suitable as the primary rheology modifying component may be functionalized with glycidyl or glycidyl acrylate including glycidyl methacryalate and glycidyl ethacrylate functionality . In some embodiments the secondary rheology modifying component is not necessary to stabilize ground tire rubber in asphalt.

As explained above the stability of GTR in asphalt is generally determined by the Separation test cigar tube test ASTM D 7173 Determining Separation Tendency of Polymer from Polymer Modified Asphalt. The closer the temperature between the top and the bottom of the cigar tube the higher the stability. SBS is regarded as the gold standard benchmark for modifying asphalt with SBS modified asphalt having a cigar test of 2 C. 3.6 F. difference. In sharp contrast GTR modified asphalt will have a 30 F. 16.7 C. difference or worse. Various embodiments of the present invention provide for stabilizing GTR modified asphalt with the additives of the present invention so that the cigar test temperature difference for the GTR modified asphalt is greatly improved

When the additives of the present invention are utilized in making GTR modified asphalt or otherwise incorporated into GTR modified asphalt the cigar test results are a lot better than 30 F. 16.7 C. difference specifically less than or equal to 14 C. 25.2 F. 12 C. 21.6 F. 10 C. 18 F. 8 C. 14.4 F. 6 C. 10.8 F. 4 C. 7.2 F. 2 C. 3.6 F. 1 C. 1.8 F. or 0.5 C. 0.9 F. temperature difference using ASTM D 7173. In other words the additives of the present invention stabilize GTR in asphalt so that the GTR modified asphalt now meets the SBS gold standard regarding the cigar test of 2 C. 3.6 F. . In some embodiments the additive may not require the secondary rheology modifying component to stabilize the ground tire rubber in asphalt.

As one non limiting embodiment the primary rheology modifying component s and the secondary rheology modifying component s may be melted together into a molten liquid phase mixed and then formed into solid form which is now useful as an asphalt additive. As a specific non limiting example of this embodiment melt wax polymers and Elvaloy terpolymer mix and form solid additive. As another specific non limiting example of this embodiment melt wax and Elvaloy terpolymer mix and form solid additive.

As a more specific non limiting embodiment of the above embodiment the primary rheology modifying component s and the secondary rheology modifying component s may be melt mixed via extrusion with the extrudate made into solid form which is now useful as an asphalt additive. As a specific non limiting example of this embodiment melt mix via extrusion the polymers wax and Elvaloy terpolymer next form the extrudate into the solid additive.

As another non limiting embodiment the primary rheology modifying component s and the secondary rheology modifying component s may be melted together into a molten liquid phase mixed and then formed into solid form. This additive in solid form may be combined with additional primary rheology modifying component s and or secondary rheology modifying component s and utilized as an asphalt additive. It should be appreciated the formed solid additive and additional rheology modifying component s may be combined prior to contacting with asphalt added to asphalt simultaneously or added to asphalt consecutively. As a specific non limiting example of this embodiment melt wax and polymers mix and form into pellets then combine these pellets with Elvaloy pellets in the asphalt blend tank.

Some embodiments of the present invention will melt the primary and secondary rheology modifying components together at the same time. Other embodiments will first melt the primary rheology modifying component s and then introduce the secondary rheology modifying component s to the melted primary rheology modifying component s . The secondary rheology modifying component s may or may not be melted at the time of the introduction. As a non limiting example utilizing a twin screw extruder the primary rheology modifying component s as a non limiting example a PAO and an Elvaloy terpolymer are introduced at the front end of the extruder. The secondary rheology modifying component may be introduced at the front end of the extruder along with the primary rheology modifying component s as a non limiting example a wax or may be introduced after the front end of the extruder generally at the end of the first screw beginning of the second screw to join the already melted primary rheology modifying component s .

As a more specific non limiting embodiment of the above embodiment the primary rheology modifying component s and the secondary rheology modifying component s may be melt mixed via extrusion with the extrudate then formed into solid form. This additive in solid form may then be combined with additional primary rheology modifying component s and or secondary rheology modifying component s and utilized as an asphalt additive. It should be appreciated the formed solid additive and additional rheology modifying component s may be combined prior to contacting with asphalt added to asphalt simultaneously or added to asphalt consecutively. As a specific non limiting example of this embodiment melt mix the polymers and wax via extrusion then pelletize the extrudate then combine these pellets with Elvaloy terpolymer in the asphalt blend tank.

As even another non limiting embodiment the primary rheology modifying component s and the secondary rheology modifying component s may be micronized via high shear grinding to form the asphalt additive. As a specific non limiting example of this embodiment micronize via high shear grinding polymer wax and Elvaloy to form the asphalt additive. The components may be combined before the high shear grinding and subjected to the grinding together or may be subjected to the grinding separately and combined afterwards.

As even another non limiting embodiment the asphalt additive may be formed by micronizing the primary rheology modifying component s via high shear grinding without the need for the secondary rheology modifying component s . It is believed that the micronized primary rheology modifying component s will sufficiently disperse in asphalt without the need for the secondary rheology modifying component. As a specific non limiting example of this embodiment would include micronizing Elvaloy terpolymer and adding to the asphalt blend tank.

Should more than one primary rheology modifying component and or secondary rheology modifying component be micronized the components may be combined before micronizing and subjected to micronizing together or may be subjected to micronizing separately and combined afterwards or added simultaneously or sequentially to the asphalt after micronizing.

Any suitable micronizing method and apparatus may be utilized to form the micronized additive of the present invention. Common traditional micronization techniques are based on friction to reduce particle size and such methods include milling bashing and grinding. A typical industrial mill is composed of a cylindrical metallic drum that usually contains steel spheres. As the drum rotates the spheres inside collide with the particles of the solid thus crushing them towards smaller diameters. In the case of grinding the solid particles are formed when the grinding units of the device rub against each other while particles of the solid are trapped in between. Methods like crushing and cutting are also used for reducing particle diameter but produce more rough particles compared to the two previous techniques and are therefore the early stages of the micronization process . Crushing employs hammer like tools to break the solid into smaller particles by means of impact. Cutting uses sharp blades to cut the rough solid pieces into smaller ones. There are also cryogenic techniques for micronizing. For example some methods use supercritical fluids in the micronization process. The most widely applied techniques of this category include the RESS process Rapid Expansion of Supercritical Solutions the SAS method Supercritical Anti Solvent and the PGSS method Particles from Gas Saturated Solutions .

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for the dispersion of the primary rheology modifying component s by first micronizing those components which allows for dispersion of those components into asphalt without the need for the secondary rheology modifying component s . In general additive particles of the present invention will be dispersible in asphalt if the particles have a diameter less than about 600 400 300 250 200 150 75 40 or 15 m microns or will pass through a mesh size of 30 40 50 60 80 100 200 400 or 800 mesh.

Some embodiments of the present invention favor utilizing additive with glycidyl functionality glycidyl acrylate functionality or epoxide functionality for modifying asphalts with higher asphaltene content while other embodiments favor utilizing additive with polyolefin s PAO s for modifying asphalts with lower asphaltene content. Generally low asphaltene asphalts will have in the range of about 3 to 5 wt asphaltene content or less whereas high asphaltene asphalts will have in the range of about 12 to 15 wt asphaltene content or more . The should be considered a continuum with those asphalts with asphaltene content in the middle i.e between 5 and 12 wt utilizing an additive having a mixture.

Some non limiting embodiments of the present invention provide for methods of modifying a petroleum asphalt the method comprising combining the petroleum asphalt with an additive to form a modified asphalt wherein the additive comprises ground tire rubber and resin wherein the resin is selected from the group consisting of reactive elastomeric terpolymers polymers having glycidyl functionality polymers having glycidyl acrylate functionality and polymers having epoxide functionality.

For the Examples Rheopave 10 XP also referred to as Rheopave XP 10 is a melt blended mixture of a wax polypropylene homopolymer and a functionalized polymer containing glycidyl methacrylate functionality Elvaloy terpolymer in solid form. Rheopave 100 is a melt blended mixture of a wax and polypropylene homopolymer in solid form.

For the Examples production of Rheopave products involve melt blending via extrusion for complete dispersion of the components which are wax PP homopolymer and Elvaloy 4170 for Rheopave 10XP no Elvaloy in Rheopave 100 . The resulting Rheopave product is in the physical form of pellets. The Rheopave pellets are added to hot asphalt base in a stirred vessel at 375 DEG F. and stirred for one hour after addition. The resultant modified asphalt is then cooled and the various standardized laboratory tests are performed according to standard procedures. Rheopave 10XP is generally PP with MFR 20 35 wt Elvaloy 1117 50 wt and CWP 500 PE Wax 15 wt . Rheopave 100 is generally PP 70 wt and wax 30 wt .

Supporting data for asphalt modifier patent based on polyropylene homo polymer and polypropylene plus polyethylene co polymer as primary rheology agents and specified secondary rheology modifying agents.

The follow data shows PP compound Rheopave 100 improving the separation stability in Crumbed Rubber Asphalt formulations

Based upon the Hamburg testing criteria set forth by the Texas Department of Transportation shown in Table 4 both samples meet the Hamburg criteria for a PG 76 and above high temperature grade. Stripping inflection points were not observed for either mixture.

Referring now to there is provided TABLE 7 Separation Test Results for Test Highway using Rheopave 10XP. The evaluating state DOT noted the workability and compaction of the Rheopave mix and which was superior to usual Asphalt Rubber Binder Mixes.

Referring now to there is provided TABLE 9 showing various test results for PG67 22 Base Asphalt Upgraded to PG76 22 GTR with MSCR Specification.

TABLE 10 provides various test results for PG67 22 Base Asphalt Upgraded to PG 76 22 GTR with MSCR Specification.

Referring now to there is provided TABLE 11 showing testing date for the PG ARB 22 TEST SECTION completed for a state DOT and also to providing Table 12 Parts 1 and 2 and to Providing Table 13 Parts 1 and 2 showing certification for the Rheopave modified asphalt. The evaluating state DOT noted the workability and compaction of the Rheopave mix and which was superior to usual Asphalt Rubber Binder Mixes.

The present disclosure is to be taken as illustrative rather than as limiting the scope or nature of the claims below. Numerous modifications and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art after studying the disclosure including use of equivalent functional and or structural substitutes for elements described herein use of equivalent functional couplings for couplings described herein and or use of equivalent functional actions for actions described herein. Any insubstantial variations are to be considered within the scope of the claims below.

