---

title: Method of using use log of portable terminal and apparatus using the same
abstract: A method of determining a second application related to a first application being executed by using a use log of a portable terminal and executing the second application according to a user input and an apparatus for supporting the same are provided. The portable terminal may determine the second application related to the first application being executed, based on a use log collected in a previous context state identical or similar to a current context state of a user. At this time, in order to determine the current context state of the user, the portable terminal may use information related to a location of the portable terminal and information related to a current time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582317&OS=09582317&RS=09582317
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09582317
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140512
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of a U.S. Provisional application filed on May 10 2013 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and assigned Ser. No. 61 821 996 and under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Jul. 15 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2013 0082882 the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method and an apparatus for using a use log of a portable terminal collected by the portable terminal More particularly the present disclosure relates to a method and an apparatus for using a use log related to a location to which a portable terminal has moved.

A portable terminal is able to determine its location in various ways. For example a portable terminal can determine its location using a Cell Positioning System CPS scheme. Such a scheme is also called a Cell ID scheme corresponding to a technology which collects a signal from a base station close to the portable terminal to measure the location. As another example a portable terminal can determine its location using a Global Positioning System GPS scheme. Such a scheme is a technology which measures the location by using a GPS signal received from a satellite and may be more accurate as compared to the CPS scheme. As another example a portable terminal can determine its location using a Wi Fi Positioning System WPS scheme. Such a scheme is a technology which compares information of an Access Point AP received through Wi Fi and information of a pre stored AP to determine the location of the portable terminal. In addition a portable terminal can measure and supplement its location information using a gravity sensor and an acceleration sensor included within the portable terminal.

However the CPS scheme has a disadvantage in that an error margin of the location of the portable terminal is large. Further when the location of the portable terminal is determined using the GPS scheme or the CPS scheme or the gravity sensor and the acceleration sensor additional power to operate a module related to the sensors may be consumed. Accordingly a method of minimizing power consumption of the portable terminal and accurately measuring the location of the portable terminal is required.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of determining a current location of a portable terminal while minimizing power consumption by using a use log of the portable terminal that includes information on a location to which the portable terminal has moved.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to use a use history model updated using the use log of the portable terminal to measure the current location of the portable terminal. Further the present disclosure provides a method of providing information on another application related to an application being currently executed in the portable terminal by using the use log of the current portable terminal.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of using a use log of a portable terminal is provided. The method includes providing a first application being executed on a display unit determining a second application related to the first application being executed based on information collected in a previous context state identical or similar to a current context state of a user providing an identifier of the determined second application detecting a user input of selecting the identifier of the second application and executing the second application in response to the detected user input.

The second application related to the first application may be an application which has been executed within a threshold time before or after the first application is executed in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user.

The second application related to the first application may be an application which has been executed a threshold number of times or more within a threshold time before or after the first application is executed.

The determining of the second application related to the first application being executed based on the information collected in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user may include determining the second application related to the first application being executed by using a statistic result generated by analyzing a use log collected in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user.

The context state may be one or more of a moving state in a specific place a staying state in a specific place a state of entering a specific place a state of leaving a specific place a state of going to work a state of returning from work a state of using a means of transportation a user action state and the like.

When the current context state of the user corresponds to a place where the user is currently located the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state may correspond to a place identical to the place a place within a threshold range from the place a place having a name identical to that of the place a place having a type identical to that of the place and the like.

The determining of the second application related to the first application being executed may include additionally determining a third application related to the first application being executed and the providing of the identifier of the determined second application may include displaying an icon of the second application in response to a user input of performing a touch drag in a direction from one side of a touch screen to a center of the touch screen.

The method may further include providing information on the current context state of the user on a touch screen.

The determining of the second application related to the first application being executed based on the information collected in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user may include determining the current context state of the user by using information related to a location of the portable terminal and information related to a current time.

The information related to the location of the portable terminal may be an identifier representing a network area including the location of the portable terminal when power of the portable terminal is equal to or smaller than a threshold and the information related to the location of the portable terminal may be at least one of a coordinate value of the location of the portable terminal and information on an Access Point AP connected to the portable terminal when the power of the portable terminal is larger than or equal to the threshold.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a portable terminal using a use log is provided. The portable terminal includes a processor configured to determine a second application related to a first application being executed based on information collected in a previous context state identical or similar to a current context state of a user and to provide an identifier of the determined second application a user input unit configured to detect an input of the user of selecting the identifier of the determined second application and a display unit configured to display the second application in response to the detected input of the user.

The second application related to the first application may be an application which has been executed within a threshold time before or after the first application is executed in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user.

The second application related to the first application may be an application which has been executed a threshold number of times or more within a threshold time before or after the first application is executed.

The processor may determine the second application related to the first application being executed by using a statistic result generated by analyzing a use log collected in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user.

The context state may be one or more of a moving state in a specific place a staying state in a specific place a state of entering a specific place a state of leaving a specific place a state of going to work a state of returning from work a state of using a means of transportation a user action state and the like.

When the current context state of the user corresponds to a place where the user is currently located the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state may correspond to a place identical to the place a place within a threshold range from the place a place having a name identical to that of the place a place having a type identical to that of the place and the like.

The processor may additionally determine a third application related to the first application being executed and the display unit may display an icon of the second application in response to a user input of performing a touch drag through the user input unit.

The processor may determine the current context state of the user by using information related to a location of the portable terminal and information related to a current time.

The information related to the location of the portable terminal may be an identifier representing a network area including the location of the portable terminal when power of the portable terminal is equal to or smaller than a threshold and the information related to the location of the portable terminal may be at least one of a coordinate value of the location of the portable terminal and information on an AP connected to the portable terminal when the power of the portable terminal is larger than or equal to the threshold.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of using a use log of a portable terminal includes is provided. The method includes applying at least one network identifier representing at least one network area where the portable terminal is located and information related to a current time to a use log statistic model determining a place where the portable terminal is located the place having a smaller size than the network area as a result of the application and controlling an application installed in the portable terminal by using a context state of a user in the place.

The applying of the information on the current time to the use log statistic model may include applying information related to a second time different from a first time corresponding to the current time to the use log statistic model and the determining of the place where the portable terminal is located may include determining a second place different from a first place corresponding to the place where the portable terminal is located as a result of the application of the information related to the second time to the use log statistic model.

The place where the portable terminal is located may be at least one of a coordinate value of a location of the portable terminal a building name or a building identifier of the location of the portable terminal a street name or a street identifier of the location of the portable terminal and the like.

The context state of the user in the place may be at least one of a moving state in the place a staying state in the place a state of entering the place a state of leaving the place and the like.

The use log statistic model may be updated using a network identifier periodically obtained by the portable terminal at each time.

The controlling of the application installed in the portable terminal by using the context state of the user in the place may include executing the application installed in the portable terminal executed in a previous context state identical or similar to the context state of the user.

The controlling of the application installed in the portable terminal by using the context state of the user in the place may include executing the application installed in the portable terminal which is different from the application being currently executed in the portable terminal by using the context state of the user in the place.

The controlling of the application installed in the portable terminal by using the context state of the user in the place may include obtaining life pattern information of the user and determining the context state of the user in the place by using the obtained life pattern information of the user.

The determining of the place where the portable terminal is located may further include obtaining a coordinate value of the location of the portable terminal by operating a location information unit of the portable terminal in a particular condition and determining the place where the portable terminal is located based on the obtained coordinate value.

The particular condition may correspond to a case where power of the portable terminal is larger than or equal to a threshold.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a portable terminal using a use log is provided. The portable terminal includes a memory configured to maintain a use log statistic model a processor configured to apply at least one network identifier representing at least one network area where the portable terminal is located and information related to a current time to the use log statistic mode to determine a place where the portable terminal is located as a result of the application the place having a smaller size than the network area and to control an application installed in the portable terminal by using a context state of a user in the place and a display unit configured to display a result of the control of the application.

The processor may apply information related to a second time different from a first time corresponding to the current time to the use log statistic model and determine a second place different from a first place corresponding to the place where the portable terminal is located as a result of the application of the information related to the second time to the use log statistic model.

The place where the portable terminal is located may be at least one of a coordinate value of a location of the portable terminal a building name or a building identifier of the location of the portable terminal a street name or a street identifier of the location of the portable terminal and the like.

The context state of the user in the place may be at least one of a moving state in the place a staying state in the place a state of entering the place a state of leaving the place and the like.

The use log statistic model may be updated using a network identifier periodically obtained by the portable terminal at each time.

When the application installed in the portable terminal is controlled using the context state of the user in the place the processor may execute the application installed in the portable terminal executed in a previous context state identical or similar to the context state of the user.

The processor may control the application installed in the portable terminal by using the context state of the user in the place.

The processor may execute the application installed in the portable terminal which is different from the application being currently executed in the portable terminal by using the context state of the user in the place.

The processor may obtain life pattern information of the user and determine the context state of the user in the place by using the obtained life pattern information of the user.

The processor may obtain a coordinate value of the location of the portable terminal by operating a location information unit of the portable terminal in a particular condition and may determine the place where the portable terminal is located based on the obtained coordinate value.

The particular condition corresponds to a case where power of the portable terminal is larger than or equal to a threshold.

According to the present disclosure a second application having a high correlation with a first application is recommended while the first application is executed so that the inconvenience of newly searching an application can be reduced. To this end the accuracy of the recommendation of the second application having the high correlation with the first application may be improved by analyzing at least one of a correlation between execution time of the first and second applications a correlation between use recording of the first and second applications and a correlation between the first and second applications and other areas for example media web communication target and physical state . Further by selectively analyzing the correlation in consideration of available power and resources of the portable terminal power consumption and deterioration of service responsibility of the portable terminal can be minimized. That is through the present disclosure it is possible to further improve satisfaction of the user who uses a Location Based Service LBS a Social Networking Service SNS a user customized service and the like.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

Further methods described in relation to a flowchart may be altered by changing an order of operations illustrated in the flowchart or repeating or omitting a specific operation.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Referring to a portable terminal may start at a first time for example nine in the morning in a first place of a first network area . A user may execute a first application in the first place. At this time when the user makes a request for an application recommendation the portable terminal may recommend a 2A application in consideration of information on the first application being executed information on the first place and the first time. Further when the user makes a request for execution of the 2A application the portable terminal may execute the 2A application.

Next the portable terminal may arrive in a second place of a second network area at a second time for example eleven o clock . The user may execute the first application in the same place as the first place. At this time when the user makes a request for an application recommendation the portable terminal may recommend a 2B application different from the 2A application in consideration of information on the first application being executed information on the second place and the second time. Further when the user makes a request for execution of the 2B application the portable terminal may execute the 2B application.

In a similar way the portable terminal may arrive in a third place of the second network area and a fourth place corresponding to a common area of a third network area and a fourth network area at a third time and a fourth time respectively. The portable terminal may receive a request for a recommendation of the second application related to the first application being executed by the user in the third and fourth places where the portable terminal has arrived. In this case the portable terminal may recommend 2C and 2D applications different from each other in consideration of the respective arrival places and arrival times. Further when the user makes a request for execution of the recommended application the portable terminal may execute each of the 2C and 2D applications.

Referring to the portable terminal may include hardware and software . The software may include a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Examples of components of the hardware and the software will be described in more detail with reference to and .

The components of the portable terminal according to the present disclosure may be applied to a smart phone such as a Galaxy S or an iPhone but are not limited thereto and may be applied to various devices. For example the components of the portable terminal may be applied to a tablet device such as a Galaxy Tab an iPad or the like a Portable Multimedia Player MPM a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a laptop Personal Computer PC a wrist watch a Head Mounted Display HMD and a wearable device.

The processor may control a plurality of hardware and software components connected to the processor by driving an operating system and an application program and may operate as the processor for processing various types of data including multimedia data and performing calculations. The processor may be implemented by a System on Chip SoC and may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

Further the processor may perform a communication function. For example the processor may distinguish and authenticate the portable terminal within a network by using a subscriber identification module such as a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card and may provide services such as a voice call a video call a Short Message Service SMS message packet data and the like to the user. The processor may include parts such as a power manager or an internal memory .

The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a nonvolatile memory for example One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM and the like . According to an embodiment the processor may load a command or data received from at least one of the nonvolatile memory and another component in the volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the processor may store data received or generated from another component in the nonvolatile memory.

The external memory may include at least one of for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD and a memory stick.

The power manager may manage or monitor power of the hardware . Although not illustrated the power manager may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery gauge. The PMIC may be mounted within for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. At this time the charger IC may operate in at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a resonant type an electromagnetic inductive type and an electromagnetic wave type. In this case an additional circuit for wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier or the like may be included. The battery gauge may measure at least one of a residual quantity of a battery and a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may generate electricity to supply power and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

An interface unit may include at least one of an HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector a D subminiature D sub a Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC not shown and an Infrared Data Association IrDA not shown .

A communication unit may include at least one of a broadcast receiver a mobile communication unit a wireless Internet unit a short range communication unit and a location information unit . The broadcast receiver receives a broadcast signal and or broadcast related information from an external broadcast management server through a broadcast channel. The broadcast channel may include a satellite channel and a terrestrial channel. The broadcast management server may refer to a server that generates and transmits a broadcast signal and or broadcast related information or a server that receives a pre generated broadcast signal and or broadcast related information and transmits the generated broadcast signal and broadcast related information to the terminal. The broadcast signal may include not only a TV broadcast signal a radio broadcast signal and a data broadcast signal but also a broadcast signal in the form of a combination of a TV broadcast signal or a radio broadcast signal with a data broadcast signal. The broadcast related information may refer to information related to a broadcast channel a broadcast program or a broadcast service provider. The broadcast related information may be provided through a mobile communication network. In this case the broadcast related information may be received by a mobile communication unit . The broadcast related information may exist in various forms. For example the broadcast related information may be in a form such as an Electronic Program Guide EPG of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB or an Electronic Service Guide ESG of a Digital Video Broadcast Handheld DVB H . The broadcast receiver may receive a broadcast signal by using various broadcast systems and particularly may receive a digital broadcast signal by using digital broadcast systems such as Digital Multimedia Broadcasting Terrestrial DMB T Digital Multimedia Broadcasting Satellite DMB S Media Forward Only MediaFLO Digital Video Broadcast Handheld DVB H Integrated Services Digital Broadcast Terrestrial ISDB T and the like. Of course the broadcast receiver may be configured to be suitable for not only the above described digital broadcast systems but also other broadcast systems. The broadcast signal and or the broadcast related information received through the broadcast receiver may be stored in the memory .

The mobile communication unit may transmit receive a wireless signal to from at least one of a base station an external terminal and a server over the mobile communication network. The wireless signal may include data in various forms according to transmission reception of a voice call signal a video call signal an SMS multimedia message.

The wireless Internet unit performs a function for an access to a wireless Internet. Use may be made of wireless Internet technologies such as Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wi Fi Wireless broadband Wibro World Interoperability for Microwave Access Wimax High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and the like.

The short range communication unit may perform a function for short range communication. Use may be made of short range technologies such as Bluetooth Radio Frequency IDentification RFID Infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra WideBand UWB ZigBee and the like.

The location information unit performs a function for obtaining or identifying a location of a mobile terminal. The location information unit may obtain location information by using a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS . GNSS is a term used for describing wireless navigation satellite systems in which predetermined types of wireless navigation transceivers rotate around the earth and transmit reference signals for determining the earth s surface or locations of the wireless navigation receivers near the earth s surface. GNSS includes Global Positioning System GPS operated by the USA Galileo operated by the European Union Global Orbiting Navigational Satellite System GLONASS operated by Russia COMPASS operated by China Quasi Zenith Satellite System QZSS operated by Japan and the like.

Additionally or generally the communication unit may include a network interface for example LAN card or a modem for connecting the hardware with a network for example Internet Local Area Network LAN Wire Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

A user input unit may receive various commands from the user. The user input unit may include at least one of for example a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input unit .

The touch panel may recognize a touch input by the user based on for example at least one of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a controller not shown . Meanwhile in the capacitive type a proximity recognition is possible as well as a direction touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction. The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a separate recognition sheet in the same way as a method of receiving a touch input of the user. As the key for example a key pad or a touch key may be used. The ultrasonic input unit may detect an acoustic wave received by a microphone through a pen generating an acoustic signal to identify data. According to various embodiments the hardware may receive a user input from an external device for example a network a computer a server and the like located outside the portable terminal by using for example the communication unit .

A display unit is a device for displaying an image or data to the user and may include for example a display panel and a hologram unit for showing a stereoscopic image on the air by using interference of light. As the display panel for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED may be used. At this time the display unit may further include a controller for controlling the display panel . The display panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. Meanwhile the display panel may be configured as one unit with the touch panel and provided in the form of a touch screen.

A camera unit may perform a function of photographing an image such as a dynamic image. The camera unit may include one or more image sensors for example a front lens or a back lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash LED not shown according to an implementation.

A timer may perform a function of providing information on a specific time. For example the timer may determine a current time by using a reference time obtained from an internal reference watch or the communication unit and provide information on the current time when the processor makes a request for the information.

A sensor unit may include for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometer sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Greed and Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K an UltraViolet UV sensor M an E nose sensor not shown an Electromyography EMG sensor not shown an Electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an Electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown or a finger print sensor. According to an implementation embodiment the hardware may further include a Micro Controller Unit MCU for controlling the sensor unit .

An audio codec unit may bi directionally convert a voice and an electrical signal. The audio codec unit may convert voice information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like. Names of the components of the hardware may be changed. Further the hardware according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described components omit one of the components or further include an additional component.

Referring to the software may include an Operating System OS implemented in the hardware to control resources of the portable terminal and an application driven on the OS. The OS may include at least a part of a kernel middleware an API and the application . As the OS for example Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada or the like may be used.

The kernel may include a system resource manager that can manage resources and a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a processor manager A a memory manager B or a file system manager C and may perform a function of controlling allocating or withdrawing system resources.

The device driver may control various components of the hardware of the portable terminal by approaching the components in software. To this end although not illustrated the device driver may be divided into for example an interface and an individual driver module part provided by each hardware company. For example the device driver may include at least one of a display driver A a camera driver B a Bluetooth driver C a shared memory driver D a USB driver E a keypad driver F a Wi Fi driver G an audio driver H and an Inter Process Communication IPC driver not shown .

The middleware may include a plurality of modules implemented in advance to provide functions commonly required for various applications. The middleware may provide the commonly required functions through the API such that the application can efficiently use restricted system resources within the electronic device. The middleware may include one or more of a plurality of modules for example an application manager A a window manager B a multimedia manager C a resource manager D a power manager E a database manager F and a package manager G.

The application manager A may manage a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager B may manage Graphical User Interface GUI resources used by a screen. The multimedia manager C may grasp formats required for reproduction of various media files and may perform an encoding or a decoding of the media file by using a codec suitable for the corresponding format. The resource manager may manage resources such as a source code of at least one of the applications a memory and a storage space. The power manager E may operate together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS to manage a battery or power and may provide power information required for the operation. The database manager F may manage generation search or change of a database to be used by at least one of the applications . The package manager G may manage an installation or an update of an application distributed in the form of a package file.

According to an implementation the middleware may include at least one of a connectivity manager H a notification manager I a location manager J a graphic manager K and a security manager L.

The connectivity manager H may manage for example a wireless connection such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth. The notification manager I may display or make a notification of an event such as an arrival message a scheduled date proximity notification and the like in such a way that a user is not disturbed. The location manager J may manage location information of the portable terminal . The graphic manager K may manage a graphic effect which will be provided to the user and a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager L may provide all security functions required for system security or user authentication. In addition when the portable terminal has a telephony function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice call function or a video call function.

The middleware may include a runtime library or other library modules not shown according to an implementation. The runtime library is a library module that a compiler uses in order to add a new function through a programming language while an application is being executed. For example the runtime library may execute input and output management of a memory a function associated with an arithmetic function or the like. The middleware may generate a new middleware module through a combination of various functions of the aforementioned internal component modules and use the generated new middleware module. Meanwhile the middleware may provide a module specified for each type of an operating system to provide a differentiated function.

The API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with different configurations according to an operating system. For example in Android or iOS a single API set may be provided for each platform. In Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The application may refer to one or more application programs implemented in the portable terminal by using the API . The application may be classified into for example a preloaded application and a third party application. For example the application may include at least one of a home application A for returning to a home screen a dialer application B a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application C an Instant Message IM application D a browser application E a camera application F an alarm application G a contacts or address book application H a voice dial application I an email application J a calendar application K a media player L an album application M and a watch application N.

Names of the components of the software may be changed. Further the software according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described components omit a few of the components or further include an additional component.

Referring to the processor of the portable terminal may include a use log monitoring unit a use log statistic unit and an application controller .

The use log monitoring unit may include a hardware information collector for collecting hardware use information of the portable terminal and a software information collector for collecting software use information.

The hardware information collector may include a location information collector a time information collector and a sensor information collector . The location information collector may collect location information from the communication unit . The location information may be for example a cell ID value which is an identifier of a network area obtained from the mobile communication unit of the communication unit . Alternatively the location information may be a GPS coordinate value including latitude and longitude information obtained from the location information unit of the communication unit . Alternatively the location information may be Access Point AP information obtained from the wireless Internet unit of the communication unit .

The time information collector may obtain information on a specific time from the timer . The information on the specific time may be obtained when an event making a request for a specific time by the processor or when location information of the portable terminal is collected by the location information collector . The information on the specific time may be one or more values of for example a month a day an hour a day of the week a minute and a second.

The sensor information collector may obtain one or more sensor values from the sensor unit . The sensor information collector may obtain sensor values from the magnetic sensor the acceleration sensor E and the proximity sensor G and correct a distance or an altitude of location information by using the obtained sensor values. Alternatively the sensor information collector may predict an action state of the user by using the obtained sensor value. For example the sensor information collector may predict whether the action state of the user is a walking state a running state a sitting state a standing state or the like.

The software information collector may collect use information generated when the user uses an application. For example the software information collector may collect information on a time when the application is executed a time duration for which the application is used a name of the application and information on a content executed through the application.

The use log monitoring unit may store the use information collected from the hardware information collector and the software information collector in a use log DB of the memory .

Referring to the use log format may include the type of use log a data type of each use log and a description of the use log. The type of use log may include for example TIMESTAMP UTC time according to a UTC scheme when the use log is recorded TIMESTAMP WT time according to a WT scheme when the use log is recorded CATEGORY category list of an application TYPE application type LAUNCH TYPE application execution type START TIME execution time of an application STOP TIME time when an application is moved to a foreground or when the application ends DURATION time for which an application is used PLACE ID identifier of a place where the portable terminal is located PLACE NAME name of an identifier of a place where the portable terminal is located PLACE CATEGORY category of the place LONGITUDE longitude of the user when a call starts LATITUDE latitude of the user when a call starts APP ID application identifier and APP SUB ID class name of an application The expression means that the value has a plurality of values.

Further the use information collected from the hardware information collector and the software information collector is not limited to the above described use log types and may have various types. For example the portable terminal may collect location information used by applications using location information such as Map LBS SNS PIMS contact calendar and the like and Web Browser and store collected various types of information in the use log DB .

The use log statistic unit may include a hardware log statistic unit a software log statistic unit and a use information obtainer . The use information obtainer may obtain use information of the current portable terminal from the use log monitoring unit or obtain the use log corresponding to histories of the use information of the portable terminal from the use log DB . Alternatively the use log obtainer may inquire of the user about a current context state of the user using the portable terminal through a UI provider of the application and obtain a response to the inquiry. The hardware log statistic unit may determine a current place of the potable terminal and a context state of the user in the place by using the use information or the use log obtained from the use information obtainer . For example the hardware log statistic unit may obtain identification information of the network where the portable terminal is currently located and current time information and determine a place where the potable terminal is currently located and a context state of the user in the place based on the use log related to the obtained information. The software log statistic unit may determine a second application related to a first application which is being currently executed by using the use information or the use log obtained from the use information obtainer . For example the software log statistic unit may obtain information on the first application being executed and the current context state of the user and determine the second application related to the first application being executed based on a use log collected in a previous context state identifier or similar to the current context state of the user.

When the use log statistic unit determines the context state of the user the use log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user based on a statistic result generated by applying the use information or the use log to a use log statistic model .

The use log statistic model may be a model operating through a machine learning algorithm. The use log statistic model may be continuously updated using network information periodically obtained by the portable terminal at each time. The machine learning algorithm used by the use log statistic model is an algorithm that teaches about a model by using collected data and then makes a machine answer a new question and may include a Bayes classifier algorithm a K means algorithm a Support Vector Machine SVM algorithm a boosting algorithm a decision tree algorithm a random tree algorithm an Expectation Maximization EM algorithm a neural network algorithm and the like. Further two or more of the algorithms may be combined and used for the use log statistic model or the machine learning algorithm and a different statistic algorithm are combined and used for the use log statistic model .

The use log statistic unit may provide a statistic result of the use log obtained from the use log statistic model to an application controller .

The application controller may include a statistic information obtainer an application operator and a UI provider . The statistic information obtainer may obtain a statistic result of the use log from the use log statistic unit . For example the statistic information obtainer may obtain as the statistic result of the use log a place where the user is currently located a current context state of the user information on the second application related to the first application being currently executed and the like. Further the statistic information obtainer may provide the statistic result of the use log to the application operator or the UI provider . The application operator may automatically execute the second application based on the result obtained from the statistic information obtainer or execute the second application in response to a request for executing the second application by the user. The place where the user is currently located or the current context state of the user may be provided through the display panel of a touch screen based on the result obtained from the statistic information obtainer . Alternatively the UI provider may provide a UI recommending the second application and obtain the request for executing the second application from the user through the touch panel . Alternatively the UI provider may make an inquiry to the user about the current context state of the user and obtain a response to the inquiry. Further the UI provider may provide information on the obtained response to the use log statistic unit .

Referring to the hardware log statistic unit of the processor may obtain a network identifier for example cell ID representing at least one network area where the portable terminal is located and information on a current time for example at least one of month day day of the week hour minute and second in operation . Further the hardware log statistic unit may determine the place where the portable terminal is currently located by applying the obtained at least one network identifier and the information related to the current time to the use log statistic model in operation . At this time a size of the place where the portable terminal is located may be smaller than a size of the network area. For example the place where the portable terminal is located may include a coordinate value where the portable terminal is located a street name including the coordinate where the portable terminal is located a street identifier a building name a building identifier or a name of the place where the portable terminal is located. Next the hardware log statistic unit may obtain an initial context state of the user in the place based on a change in the network identifier at each time in operation .

Meanwhile when the portable terminal obtains at least one network identifier identical to the at least one network identifier or obtains the network identifier at a second time different from a first time corresponding to the current time the hardware log statistic unit may apply the at least one network identifier and information related to the second time to the use log statistic model . Further the hardware log statistic unit may determine a second place different from a first place corresponding to the place of the portable terminal determined in operation as a place where the portable terminal is currently located. Next the hardware log statistic unit may obtain an initial context state of the user in the second place based on a change in the network identifier at each time.

When the place where the portable terminal is currently located cannot be determined in operation the portable terminal may obtain a GPS coordinate value where the portable terminal is located by operating the location information unit of the portable terminal in operation . Further the portable terminal may determine the place where the portable terminal is currently located by using the obtained GPS coordinate value in operation .

Meanwhile in another example the portable terminal may consider a condition of a power state of the portable terminal while monitoring power of a battery by using the power manager in order to determine the place where the portable terminal is currently located.

For example when power of the portable terminal is equal to or smaller than a threshold for example only power equal to or below 10 remains the portable terminal may use an identifier representing a network area including the place where the portable terminal is located as information on the current location. In contrast when the power of the portable terminal is larger than or equal to a threshold for example power equal to or more than 10 remains the portable terminal may use the GPS coordinate value obtained by operating the location information unit or use the AP information obtained by operating the wireless Internet unit as the information on the current location.

In another example the portable terminal may consider a geographical state of the portable terminal in order to determine the place where the portable terminal is currently located. For example the portable terminal may use the identifier representing the network area in a place where the location information unit is not operated and obtain the GPS value by operating the location information unit in a place where the location information unit is always operated so as to determine the place where the portable terminal is located.

The initial context state of the user may be for example a state indicating whether the user is in a staying state in a current place as illustrated in operation or a moving state as illustrated in operation .

In an embodiment when the initial state of the user is the staying state as illustrated in operation the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether the user moves at a low speed in operation . The hardware log statistic unit may use a ratio of a time to a movement distance to determine whether the user moves at a low speed or a high speed. For example the hardware log statistic unit may calculate a movement distance from a coordinate value of a base station corresponding to a recent cell ID and a coordinate value of a base station corresponding to a previous cell ID based on a cell ID value corresponding to network identification information and calculate a movement time during the movement distance so as to calculate the ratio of the time to the movement distance as a movement speed of the user. Further when the ratio is equal to or smaller than a threshold the hardware log statistic unit may determine that the movement speed of the user is the low speed. In contrast when the ratio is larger than or equal to a threshold the hardware log statistic unit may determine that the movement speed of the user is the high speed.

When it is determined that the movement is taking place at a low speed the hardware log statistic unit may continuously determine the current context state of the user as the staying state as illustrated in operation . In contrast when it is impossible to determine whether the movement is taking place at a low or high speed the hardware log statistic unit may calculate a movement start probability of the user based on a use log related to a current time in operation . For example the hardware log statistic unit may calculate the movement start probability of the current user based on a probability value at a past time related to the current time by using the use log statistic model . The use log statistic model may calculate in advance the probability value at each time based on the use log of the portable terminal . For example the use log statistic model may calculate in advance conditional probabilities Pr Z T Pr A ZT and Pr A B ZT at a specific time T and day of the week. Thereafter the use log statistic model may calculate the movement start probability of the current user by using a probability value at the same day of the week and the same time as the current time and the current day of the week. Accordingly the portable terminal may determine the movement start probability of the user with the high accuracy even though the user has different movement patterns according to the time even in the same place.

According to a result of the calculation of the movement start probability it may be determined whether the current context state of the user is a movement start state in operation . When it is determined that the context state of the user is the movement start state the hardware log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user as the moving state as illustrated in operation . In contrast when it is determined that the context state of the user is not the movement start state the hardware log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user as the staying state as illustrated in operation .

In another embodiment when the initial state of the user is the moving state as illustrated in operation the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether the user moves at a high speed in operation . When it is determined that the movement is taking place at a speed the hardware log statistic unit may continuously determine the current context state of the user as the moving state as illustrated in operation . In contrast when it is impossible to determine whether the movement is taking place at a high speed the hardware log statistic unit may calculate a movement end probability of the user based on a use log related to a current time in operation . For example the hardware log statistic unit may calculate the movement end probability based on a probability value at a past time related to the current time. Further the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether the current context state of the user is a movement end state in operation . When it is determined that the context state of the user is the movement end state the hardware log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user as a staying state as illustrated in operation . In contrast when it is determined that the context state of the user is not the movement end state the hardware log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user as the moving state as illustrated in operation .

Referring to the hardware log statistic unit of the processor may obtain a context state of the user in operation . At this time a method of determining the context state of the user may be determined using the network identifier and the information related to the current time as described in . Next the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether the context state of the user is a moving state in operation . When the context state of the user is the moving state the hardware log statistic unit may obtain life pattern information of the user in operation . The life pattern information of the user may be for example information on a location of a house or an office of the user or information on days of the week when the user goes to work. When the context state of the user is not the moving state the hardware log statistic unit may periodically monitor whether the context state of the user is the moving state in operation .

Next the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether a current day of the week is the day of the week when the user goes to work in operation by using current time information and life pattern information of the user. When the current day of the week is the day of the week when the user goes to work the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether the user is on a movement path between the house and the office in operation . In contrast when the current day of the week is not the day of the week when the user goes to work or when the current day of the week is the day of the week when the user goes to work but the user is not on the movement path between the house and the office the hardware log statistic unit may periodically monitor until the context state of the user meets a condition in operation .

When the user is on the movement path between the house and the office the hardware log statistic unit may determine whether a movement direction of the user is a direction from the house to the office in operation . As a result of the determination when the movement direction of the user is the direction from the house to the office the hardware log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user as a state of going to work as illustrated in operation . In contrast when the movement direction of the user is a direction from the office to the house the hardware log statistic unit may determine the context state of the user as a state of returning from work as illustrated in operation .

Meanwhile in operation when the hardware log statistic unit recognizes the state of the user as the state of going to work or returning from work even though the current day of the week is not the day of the week when the user goes to work the hardware log statistic unit may make a request for the current context state of the user through the UI provider of the application controller in operation . For example the UI provider may provide a UI that asks a question Are you going to work today to receive a response from the user. Then when the UI provider receives a response Yes or No from the user in operation the UI provider may provide the response by feedback related to the life pattern information of the user in operation . In contrast when the UI provider does not receive the response from the user the hardware log statistic unit may periodically continuously monitor the context state of the user in operation .

As described above the context state of the user may have the moving state in a specific place the staying state in a specific place the state of going to work and the state of returning from work but is not limited to the above described embodiment of the present disclosure and may include various context states. For example the context state of the user may include a state of entering a specific place a state of leaving a specific place a state of using a means of transportation and a user action state for example a walking state a running state a sitting state and a standing state . In each of the context states of the user the portable terminal may control an application suitable for each of the states and a configuration of the portable terminal .

For example when the context state of the user is determined as a state of going to work the portable terminal may execute and display an application providing traffic information. Alternatively when the context state of the user is determined as a state of staying at the office the portable terminal may configure a bell mode to a vibration mode. When the context state of the user is determined as the state of moving near the office the portable terminal may execute and display an application providing information on restaurants and cafes around the user.

Referring to the software log statistic unit of the processor may obtain a current context state of the user from the hardware log statistic unit in operation . In an embodiment a method of determining the context state of the user may use the methods described in .

The software log statistic unit may compare the obtained current context state of the user with a past context state of the user and determine whether the context state of the user has changed in operation . For example the software log statistic unit may determine whether a place where the portable terminal is located has changed. When the place where the portable terminal is located has changed the software log statistic unit may configure a different type of use log to be used in order to recommend a new application according to a power state of the portable terminal . In contrast when the place where the portable terminal is located has not changed the portable terminal may continuously monitor whether the context state of the user is changed in operation .

When the context state of the user has changed and power of the portable terminal lacks in operation the software log statistic unit may obtain a use log related to execution time of applications executed in a previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user in operation . For example the software log statistic unit may obtain a use log related to execution time of applications executed in a place identical to the current place of the user a place within a threshold range from the current place of the user a place having the same name as that of the place where the user is currently located for example a store having the same name or a bus having the same number or the same type of place for example type of place is a store or type of place is a bus . Next the software log statistic unit may analyze the temporal proximity and the execution time context as the correlation between the execution time of the applications by applying the obtained use log to the use log statistic model in operation .

Meanwhile when the context state of the user has changed and power of the portable terminal is sufficient in operation the software log statistic unit may obtain a use log of execution time of applications executed in a previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user and a use log of a content of an application executed only when the application is executed in operation . The use log of the content of the application may obtain for example media content information executed in the application webpage information accessed using the application a log of a server communicating through the application and a log for example log of the sensor of a physical state of the portable terminal when using the application. The previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user may be a place identical to the current place of the user a place within a threshold range from the current place of the user a place having the same name as that of the place where the user is currently located or a place having the same type. Next the software log statistic unit may analyze the correlation between the execution time of the applications and the correlation between contents by applying the obtained use log to the use log statistic model in operation .

Subsequently the software log statistic unit may obtain identification information for example an ID representing the first application of the first application being currently executed. Further the software log statistic unit may determine n number of second applications having the high correlation with the first application being currently executed by applying the obtained identification information of the first application and results of the analyzed correlation to a conventionally known linear probabilistic model in operation . For example the application log statistic unit may sequentially determine the n number of second applications in an order from a second application having a high probability of being executed together with the first application while the first application is executed. At this time the linear probability model generally operates as a part of the use log statistic model . In another embodiment the linear probability model may operate as a separate module from the use log statistic model .

The second applications having a high probability of being executed while the first application is executed may be for example applications executed with a threshold time for example from 10 minutes before the first application is executed to 10 minutes after the application ends before or after the first application is executed in a previous place identical or similar to the place where the user is currently located. Alternatively the second applications having a high probability of being executed while the first application is executed may be applications which have been executed a threshold number of times or more for example three or more times within a threshold time for example from 30 minutes before the first application is executed to 30 minutes after the first application ends in a place identical or similar to the place where the user is currently located.

Next the software log statistic unit may provide identification information of the determined n number of second applications to the statistic information obtainer of the application controller . The application controller may determine whether the user makes a request for the second application in operation . For example when the user performs a touch drag gesture in a direction from one side of the touch screen to a center of the touch screen in a state where the first application is executed the application controller may determine that the user makes a request for the second application. In this case the application controller may obtain identification information of the n number of second applications from the statistic information obtainer . Further the obtained identifiers of the n number of second applications may be provided through the display panel in operation . At this time the identifiers of the second applications may be for example icons representing the second applications respectively.

The application controller may receive a signal of the user for selecting at least one second application from the provided icons of the second applications in operation . Further the application controller may execute the at least one selected second application as a response to the selection by the user in operation .

Referring to the use log statistic model may include second applications having the high correlation with the first application being executed according to a context state of the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state where the user is in a bus to go to work the use log statistic result may include second applications for example a Music app an S Note app a ChatON app etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example a Facebook app etc. being currently executed by the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state of returning from work the use log statistic result may include second applications for example an E book app a Facebook app a Web browser app a news.naver.com webpage etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example an E mail app etc. being currently executed by the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state where the user is shopping at Homeplus the use log statistic result may include second applications for example a Wallet app a Facebook app a Web browser app a www.danawa.com webpage etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example a T money app etc. being currently executed by the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state where the user is driving his her own car the use log statistic result may include second applications for example a Call app a Radio app a Navigation app etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example a Youtube app etc. being currently executed by the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state where the user is shopping in a bookstore the use log statistic result may include second applications for example a Facebook app a Web browser app a www.yes24.com a T Money app etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example an S Note app being currently executed by the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state where the user is strolling on foot the use log statistic result may include second applications for example a Pedometer app a Call app a Kakao Talk app etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example a Music player app etc. being currently executed by the user. Referring to a reference numeral when the context state of the user is determined as a state where the user is staying at home the use log statistic result may include second applications for example an E mail app a Crash Clean game of a game app a Kakao Talk app etc. having the high correlation with the first application for example an E book app etc. being currently executed by the user.

Referring to the portable terminal may provide a first application being executed on a display unit. At this time the first application may be an application selected and executed by the user. Alternatively the first application may be an application automatically provided by the portable terminal . For example based on the use log of the portable terminal collected in a previous context state identical or similar to a current context state of the user for example a place where the user is currently located the portable terminal may determine the first application having the highest use frequency in the context state and automatically provide the determined first application .

At this time a current context state A of the user for example a bookstore or a mart corresponding to a place where the user is currently located may be provided to the touch screen . For example when the place where the user is currently located is the bookstore the portable terminal may provide the message A of Bookstore to the user. Further the portable terminal may automatically provide a message B of inquiring about whether to use Near Field Communication NFC to obtain information on payment of a book or a miscellaneous good and information on the book or the miscellaneous good through the NFC. For example the portable terminal may provide the notification message B of turn on NFC to the user.

Referring to the portable terminal may detect a user s gesture of performing a touch drag in a direction from one side of the touch screen to a center of the touch screen . At this time the user s gesture may be a touch drag gesture or a flick gesture.

Referring to the portable terminal may gradually display an area including icons and of a plurality of second applications related to the first application being executed based on information collected in a previous state identical or similar to the current context state of the user in response to the user s gesture . At this time displaying the area based on the information collected in the previous state identical or similar to the current context state of the user may be based on a statistic result generated by analyzing the use log collected in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user. For example the portable terminal may determine applications which have been executed a threshold number of times or more within a threshold period of time before or after the first application is executed in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user as the second applications and gradually display the area including the icons to of the second applications.

Referring to the portable terminal may detect a user s gesture of selecting the icon of at least one application from the icons to of the plurality of second applications. At this time the user s gesture may be a gesture of maintaining a touch for a threshold time or a gesture of performing a touch and then a touch drag in an upward direction in which the first application is located.

Referring to the portable terminal may execute and display at least one selected second application in response to the user s gesture . At this time the second application may be provided in a foreground state on the first application or provided together with the first application in a form of a sub window.

Referring to the portable terminal may provide a first application being executed to a display unit. At this time the first application may be an application selected and executed by the user. Alternatively the first application may be an application automatically provided by the portable terminal . For example based on the use log of the portable terminal collected in a previous context state identical or similar to a current context state of the user for example a state where the user is back from work or going to work the portable terminal may determine the first application having the highest use frequency in the context state and automatically provide the determined first application . For example when an application which is most frequently used by the user while the user is going to work is a news related app the portable terminal may automatically execute and display the news related app if a current context state of the user is determined as a state of going to work.

At this time one or more current context states A and B of the user may be provided to the touch screen . For example when the current context state of the user is a state of going to work from home the portable terminal may provide a message A of going to work to the user. Further when a place where the user is located is a bus the portable terminal may provide a message B of in a bus to the user.

Referring to the portable terminal may detect a user s gesture of performing a touch drag in a direction from one side of the touch screen to a center of the touch screen . At this time the user s gesture may be a touch drag gesture or a flick gesture.

Referring to the portable terminal may gradually display an area including icons and of a plurality of second applications related to the first application being executed based on information collected in a previous state identical or similar to the current context state of the user in response to the user s gesture . At this time displaying the area based on the information collected in the previous state identical or similar to the current context state of the user may be using a statistic result generated by analyzing the use log collected in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user. For example the portable terminal may determine applications which have been executed a threshold number of times or more within a threshold period of time before or after the first application is executed in the previous context state identical or similar to the current context state of the user as the second applications and gradually display the area including the icons to of the second applications. As an example when the first application is the news related app a Music app an S Note app a Facebook app and a ChatON app are determined as second applications which have been executed within 5 minutes before or after the first application is executed and the area including the icons to of the apps may be displayed.

Referring to the portable terminal may detect a user s gesture of selecting the icon of at least one application from the icons to of the plurality of second applications. At this time the user s gesture may be a gesture of maintaining a touch for a threshold time or a gesture of performing a touch and then a touch drag in an upward direction in which the first application is located.

Referring to the portable terminal may execute and display at least one selected second application in response to the user s gesture . At this time the second application may be provided in a foreground state on the first application or provided together with the first application in a form of a sub window.

It may be appreciated that the various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. Any such software may be stored for example in a volatile or non volatile storage device such as a ROM a memory such as a RAM a memory chip a memory device or a memory IC or a recordable optical or magnetic medium such as a CD a DVD a magnetic disk or a magnetic tape regardless of its ability to be erased or its ability to be re recorded. It can be also appreciated that the software may be stored in a machine for example a computer readable storage medium.

It will be appreciated that a method of using a use log of a portable terminal and an apparatus using the same according to the present disclosure may be implemented by a computer or a portable terminal including a controller and a memory in which the memory may be an example of a machine readable storage medium that is suitable for storing one or more programs including instructions for implementing various embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly the present disclosure includes a program including a code for implementing the apparatus and method described in the appended claims of the specification and a machine computer or the like readable storage medium for storing the program. The method of using the use log of the portable terminal and the apparatus using the same may receive the program from a program providing apparatus connected wireless or through a wire and store the received program. Further the user may selectively limit operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure within the user terminal or expand the operations to interworking with a server through a network.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

