---

title: Communication with network devices
abstract: A system for communicating with a network of devices is disclosed. The system can include a control device configured to send a first digital communication using a network protocol. The system can also include a number of network devices communicably coupled to the control device, where each of the plurality of network devices is configured to receive the first digital communication using the network protocol. The system can further include a first communication channel communicably coupled to the control device and the plurality of network devices. The first digital communication sent by the control device can be sent to all of the network devices using the first communication channel. The first digital communication can be addressed to a number of recipient devices of the network devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09385878&OS=09385878&RS=09385878
owner: Cooper Technologies Company
number: 09385878
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140205
---
Embodiments described herein relate generally to communication with a network of devices and more particularly to systems methods and devices for mass command and control of network devices.

At times one or more electronic devices can be interconnected in a network. In such a case the network can also include a control device. The control device can be used to communicate with the various devices in the network. For example the control device can send a communication to one or more devices in the network so that those devices perform a certain task. As another example the control device can send a communication to one or more devices in the network to determine the status of those devices.

Communication within the network can also flow the other way. In other words communications can be sent by one or more devices in the network to the control device. For example one or more devices in the network can send a communication to the control device that acknowledges receipt of a communication from the control device. As another example one or more devices in the network can send a communication to the control device that notifies the control device of the status of the device.

In general in one aspect the disclosure relates to a system for communicating with a network of devices. The system can include a control device configured to send a first digital communication using a multi cast network protocol. The system can also include a number of network devices communicably coupled to the control device where each of the network devices is configured to receive the first digital communication using the multi cast network protocol. The system can further include a first communication channel communicably coupled to the control device and the network devices. The first digital communication sent by the control device can be sent to all of the network devices using the first communication channel. The first digital communication is addressed to a number of recipient devices of the network devices. The first digital communication sent by the control device comprises a unique address for each of the recipient devices.

In another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a method for communicating with a number of network devices. The method can include sending using a hardware processor a first communication to the network devices using a multi cast network protocol. The first communication can be addressed to a number of recipient devices of the network devices. The first communication can include a unique address for each of the recipient devices.

In yet another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a computer readable medium that includes computer readable program code embodied therein for a method of communicating with a number of network devices. The method can include sending a first communication to the network devices using a multi cast network protocol. The first communication can be addressed to a number of recipient devices of the network devices. The first communication can include a unique address for each of the recipient devices.

These and other aspects objects features and embodiments will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

The example embodiments discussed herein are directed to systems apparatuses and methods of communicating with network devices. Communicating with network devices as described herein can be used in one or more of a number of applications. Such applications can include but are not limited to mass notification office work stations fire protection and surveillance. Thus the examples of communicating with network devices described herein are not limited to a particular application.

Example embodiments of communicating with network devices will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments of communicating with network devices are shown. Communicating with network devices may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of communicating with network devices to those of ordinary skill in the art. Like but not necessarily the same elements also sometimes called components in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency. Terms such as first second top base open and closed are used merely to distinguish one component or part of a component or state of a component from another. Such terms are not meant to denote a preference or a particular orientation.

The control device can be any type of device capable of generating sending receiving and interpreting communications. The communications generated and sent by the control device are sent to one or more of the network devices . The communications sent by the control device can be sent through one or more communication channels e.g. communication channel to the network and then from the network through one or more communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel to one or more of the network devices . For example in this case communication channel allows communications to be sent from the network to network device communication channel allows communications to be sent from the network to network device and communication channel allows communications to be sent from the network to network device .

Similarly one or more of the network devices can generate and send communications to the control device using the same communication channels. The network devices can be any type of device capable of receiving and interpreting communications from the control device . In addition a network device can generate a response based on a communication received from the control device and send such response another communication through the network and communication channel s to the control device . Examples of a network device can include but are not limited to a fire alarm a desktop computer an alarm panel a printer a fax machine a copier and a mobile device. A network device can be called by one or more of a number of other names. For example a network device can be called an Internet protocol communicator or an IP communicator.

The communication channels described herein use wired and or wireless technology. The network can include one or more systems and or devices for routing communications between the network devices and the control device through the appropriate communication channels. The network can use or include the Internet an intranet an Ethernet and or some other system of digital communication. The network can use wired and or wireless technology. The network can be configured so that one or more network devices and or the control device can be added removed and or otherwise altered to change the communication network .

The network can use one or more Internet protocols or other communication protocols for routing the various communications throughout the communication network . In the currently known art a communication generated and sent by the control device to a particular network device uses a transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP address or connection. As described herein a TCP IP connection can generally be called a protocol connection. In some cases the network can be bypassed so that there is a direct connection between the control device and a network device .

For every network device in the communication network there is a different TCP IP address or protocol connection. The result is that there is a point to point link between the control device and each network device . For example in this case the control device and the network can communicate using protocol connection the network and network device can communicate using protocol connection the network and network device can communicate using protocol connection and the network and network device can communicate using protocol connection .

Once the TCP IP connection is established between the control device and a particular network device the control device sends communications to and receives communications from each individual network device using the unique TCP IP connection assigned to that network device . The TCP IP connection requires that the control device automatically resend a communication to a network device to ensure delivery of the communication to the intended network device .

A disadvantage of using a unique TCP IP connection for each network device is that the timeliness of the response is difficult to predict especially as network quality degrades or network congestion increases. Additionally network bandwidth for example on communication channel is consumed during the communication process which increases at a multiplicative rate as congestion the number of communications on the network system increases. Another disadvantage of using a unique TCP IP connection for each network device is that additional processing capability is required to encode and decode message traffic for each TCP IP connection.

Referring to the network devices e.g. network device network device network device of are substantially the same as the network device of . Similarly the network of can be substantially the same as the network of . In addition the communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel communication channel communication channel of can be substantially the same as the communication channels of .

In certain example embodiments the control device of is similar to the control device of except as described below. Specifically the control device of uses multi cast network protocols instead of TCP IP or some other protocol used with such communication networks of . With the multi cast network protocol a single communication is sent by the control device to all of the network devices in the communication network e.g. communication network communication network communication network . In such a case the single communication can be broadcast to all network devices through the various communication channels and the network of the communication network. This creates a single network traffic communication in the communication network. The multi cast network protocol can be called a real time protocol.

As a means of contrasting if the communication network has network devices the control device of the communication networks of sends only one communication while the control device of the communication network sends one hundred communications. In other words for a communication network with network devices a single network traffic communication can be used in the communication networks of to communicate with all network devices while the traditional TCP IP approach of would require network traffic communications to each of the individual network devices . Thus the control device of expends significantly less hardware processing in generating and sending the communication compared to the control device of .

In certain example embodiments for the multi cast network protocol to be effective the data packet communication sent by the control device to each network device includes a unique address. For example when a multi cast communication is sent out by the control device a command request a target address an address of one or more particular network devices and or the address of the control device can be encoded within the data packet communication . Each network device can receive the communication inspect the target address and determine if it has to act based on the target address. If the target address matches the configuration address of the network device the network device performs the action requested in the communication.

If a response also called a communication to the communication received from the control device is required the network device can include the address of the control device as the target address while including its own address as the source address to transmit the response to the control device utilizing a multi cast protocol e.g. multi cast protocol . When the control device receives the response communication from one or more network devices the control device inspects and decodes the communication. In such a case the control device can determine the source address of the communication and process the communication according to logic rules.

In certain example embodiments to ensure delivery of a communication sent by the control device each network device with its target address included in the communication is required to send an acknowledgement back to the control device when the network device acts on the communication. Deterministic behavior can be accomplished by the control device creating a list of all target addresses from which the control device expects a response communication within a pre determined period of time. If all responses to a communication sent by the control device are not received the control device initiates an automatic resend of the communication.

When a communication is resent by the control device a network device that has already responded to a prior sending of that communication can ignore the resent communication. This process is repeated at least 1 time and is determined by a threshold count according to logic rules. After all resends of the communication have been exhausted the control device can determine which network devices failed to respond to the communications sent by the control device . This approach allows for deterministic behavior of messaging even in situations where the communication network is degraded or congested.

The communication network of utilizes multiple communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel communication channel communication channel substantially similar to the communication channels described above with respect to . The communication network of utilizes multiple communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel communication channel communication channel as in the communication network of but also has an additional communication channel between the control device and the network . In such a case the communication channel and the communication channel can be a pair of communication channels. As an example the communication channel can be used for communications sent by the control device and the communication channel can be used for communications e.g. responses sent to the control device .

The communication network of utilizes multiple communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel communication channel communication channel as in the communication network of and the communication network of but also has an additional communication channel between the control device and the network as well as additional communication channels e.g. communication channel communication channel communication channel between the network and the various network devices . In such a case a pair of communication channels can be in place between the network and every device e.g. control device network devices in the communication network . As with one of the communication channels in the pair can be used for outgoing communications while the other communication channel in the pair can be used for incoming communications.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other configurations of an example communication system can exist. For example a pair of communication channels can be utilized between the network and one or more of the network devices where a single communication channel is used between the network and the control device . As another example multiple pairs of communication channels can be used in some or all of a communication system where one of the pairs is used based on the priority of the communication involved.

In certain example embodiments one or more of the network devices sends a response to a communication received from the control device after a delay. The delay can be unique to each of the network devices within the communication network. Thus when a communication is sent broadcast by the control device and subsequently received at substantially the same time by all of the network devices in the communication network the responses sent by the network devices are staggered so that the control device does not receive all of the responses at substantially the same time. Instead with each network device sending its response according to its own unique delay the responses are distributed preventing a temporary surge in processing requirements by the control device .

The control device can be communicably coupled to each of the network devices using wired and or wireless technology. In some cases a network device can be communicably coupled to one or more other network devices in the communications network. In certain example embodiments one of the network devices is designated as a control device . In such a case the control device can be used to direct its own functions as well as command and control the other network devices in the communications network.

The control device can send communications e.g. commands requests for information to one or more network devices . Such communications can be to change the state of one or more network devices to receive the status of one or more network devices to repeat a command to change the status of one or more network devices or to perform some other function. In certain example embodiments the control device in a communication system e.g. communication system can be a network device in a larger communication system.

Each of these components is described in further detail below. Example embodiments are not limited to the configuration shown in and discussed herein. Additionally although certain components have been enumerated as being part of the system it is understood that some components are combined with other components and or some components are further divided into additional components in other alternative example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments the control device is implemented according to a client server topology. The control device may correspond to enterprise software running on one or more servers and in some embodiments may be implemented as a peer to peer system or resident upon a single computing system. In addition the control device may be accessible from other machines using one or more application programming interfaces and or user interfaces. In one or more example embodiments the control device may be accessible over a network e.g. network such as the Internet by one or more users . Further information and or services provided by the control device may also be stored and accessed over the network.

Alternatively or additionally in one or more example embodiments the control device is a local computer system of the user . In such embodiments the control device is optionally not implemented using a client server topology. For example the control device corresponds to a laptop computer desktop computer mobile device another type of computing device or a combination of multiple computing devices. Additionally or alternatively the control device is a distributed computer system and or a multi processor computer system in which the computer system includes multiple distinct computing devices.

Continuing with a user as described herein may be any person that is involved with the removal installation operation and or maintenance of a communication system and or devices e.g. network device control device within a communication system. Examples of a user may include but are not limited to a company representative an electrician an engineer a mechanic an operator local or remote a consultant a contractor and a manufacturer s representative. A user can interact with a communication system or any portion thereof directly or remotely.

The user uses one or more applications to communicate with the control device and or one or more network devices in accordance with one or more example embodiments. For example the user receives a notification from the control device as to the operation or lack of operation of a particular network device . According to some example embodiments the user sends information e.g. user preferences settings data to the control device and or the network devices in a number of manners e.g. modes of communication including but not limited to a direct input over the Internet some other suitable mode for sending information or any combination thereof.

In certain example embodiments the information sent by the user to the control device and or the network devices is delivered automatically e.g. according to a default setting a consumer preference an occurrence of an event or on demand for example in response to a notice from the control device and or a network device . The control device and or the network devices interact with the user in the same manner that the user interacts with the control device and or the network devices or in a different manner using different modes of communication. The user uses a user system not shown which is discussed below in further detail to interact with the control device and or the network devices using software not shown in accordance with one or more example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments each network device using the communication application sends communications e.g. responses information to and receives communications e.g. a request for information a command from the control device . The communications are delivered automatically e.g. according to a default setting a user preference an occurrence of an event or on demand as from a request made by the control device . The communications provided by the network devices can include but are not limited to the status of the network device an acknowledgment of receipt of a communication from the control device and a change in the status of the network device .

Each network device using the communication application interacts with the control device in the same mode of communication that the control device interacts with the network device or using different modes of communication in alternative example embodiments. In one or more example embodiments each network device uses a system not shown to interact with the control device using the communication application and network device software which is discussed in further detail below. The control device also can be implemented as a browser extension according to some example embodiments. In such a scenario user software and or network device software interacts directly with the control device as a browser extension.

In addition to sending and receiving communications the communication application of each network device can interpret a communication sent by the control device . The communication application of each network device can also generate a response and or other form of communication that is sent to the control device . Such a response and or other form of communication can include content e.g. addresses to identify the network device and the control device . The communication application of each network device can also determine whether a communication received from the control device is a duplicate and if so ignore the subsequent communication if a response was already sent to the original communication.

The communication application of a network device can also determine a delay e.g. an amount of time that a communication to be sent by the network device to the control device must undergo before being sent. In such a case the delay for one network device can be different from the delay of the other network devices in the system . Such a delay can be a default value for a network device assigned to the network device by the control device and or obtained in some other manner. The communication application of a network device can also determine which communication channel s and or which protocol to use in sending a communication to the control device . In some cases the communication application of a network device can choose one or more communication channel s and or a protocol based on the corresponding communication received from the control device .

Continuing with the control device interacts with the user and or each network device using an application interface in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the application interface of the control device receives input communications from and sends output communications to the user and or each network device . The user and or each network device includes an interface to receive communications from and send communications to the control device in certain example embodiments. Examples of this interface include but are not limited to a graphical user interface an application programming interface a keyboard a monitor a mouse a web service a data protocol adapter some other hardware and or software or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the communications received by the application interface can include but is not limited to state of operation user preferences commands settings and feedback. The communications sent by the application interface can include but is not limited to a request for status of a network device a notification of a non responding network device a command to change the status of a network device and a request for additional information. The communication sent by the application interface can specify but is not limited to a user one or more network devices a Uniform Resource Identifier URI e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator URL a web address etc. information generated by and or requested by the communication engine some other software or source of information or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more example embodiments the communications transferred among the application interface the user and or each network device corresponds to metadata associated with such information. In this case the metadata describes the data specified i.e. the metadata provides context for the specified data . In one or more example embodiments the control device and or one or more network devices supports various data formats provided by the user and or one or more other network devices .

Continuing with the control device retrieves and stores addresses history and thresholds . More specifically the control device uses the communication engine to retrieve and store addresses history and thresholds in the storage repository in accordance with one or more example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments an address is a unique identifier the target address as described above for a network device . The addresses of the storage repository can include the address of some or all of the network devices in the system . An address can also be the unique identifier of the control device . Each address is fixed in certain example embodiments or is adjusted based on a logic rule user input and or any other information that can affect or alter an address.

In one or more example embodiments the history of the storage repository is based on previous communications sent and or received by the control device . Some or all history can be stored in the storage repository . For example only the previous 24 hours of communications may be stored in the history of the storage repository . The history can be associated with a time. Time in this case can be a clock time an interval of time or some other measure of time. Thus when history is stored in the storage repository the history can be associated with a network device based for example on the addresses and or with a particular time. In this way the control device can measure the current state of one or more network devices and or whether the one or more network devices has changed state compared to a communication with a network device at some prior point in time.

In one or more example embodiments the thresholds of the storage repository are a measure of one or more of a number of communications and or parameters. Specifically the thresholds represent values or ranges of values that measure the state or change in state including the responsiveness or non responsiveness of a network device . The thresholds can be in terms of a number of communications and or any other appropriate measure of the state and or performance of one or more network devices .

A number of different thresholds can be stored in the storage repository . Each threshold can be a single number a range of numbers a word and or some other suitable measure depending upon the example embodiment. Each threshold is fixed according to some example embodiments while in other example embodiments each threshold varies based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to user input operational history and function of the network device .

Continuing with the storage repository can be a persistent storage device or set of devices that stores software and data used to assist the communication engine in communicating with the network devices within the system . In one or more example embodiments the storage repository stores the addresses history and thresholds . Examples of a storage repository include but are not limited to a database or a number of databases a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof. The storage repository is located on multiple physical machines each storing all or a portion of the addresses history and thresholds according to some example embodiments. Each storage unit or device can be physically located in the same or different geographic location. The storage repository can be operatively connected to the communication application . In one or more example embodiments the communication application includes functionality to communicate with the network devices in the system . More specifically the communication application sends information to and or receives information from the storage repository in order to communicate with the network devices .

The functions of the communication application can be performed on a single computing device or on multiple computing devices for example on different network devices . When the functions of the communication application are performed on multiple computing devices a number of configurations and or frameworks are used in certain example embodiments. The configurations and or software frameworks are designed to work with multiple data nodes and large quantities of data. One or more calculations performed by one or more components of the communication application are performed on multiple machines operating in parallel where the results from each machine are combined to generate a result to the one or more calculations.

Each component of the communication application described herein specifically the communication engine and the communication generation module uses addresses history and or thresholds to generate and send a communication to the network devices . In one or more example embodiments the communication engine of the communication application coordinates the communication generation module the storage repository and optionally the security module . Specifically the communication engine coordinates the transfer of information between the application interface the communication generation module and the storage repository according to certain example embodiments.

Further the communication engine also retrieves the addresses history and the thresholds from and sends the addresses history and the thresholds to the storage repository for use by the communication generation module and the communication engine . The communication engine can also retrieve the addresses history and or the thresholds from the storage repository to be sent to the user .

In certain example embodiments the communication engine instructs the communication generation module to generate one or more communications for one or more network devices . The communication engine can instruct the communication generation module continuously at regular intervals upon the occurrence of some event e.g. a change in status of a network device a communication received from a user and or randomly. The communication generation module can generate any type of communication for one or more network devices and or a user . Examples of such types of communication can include but are not limited to an instruction e.g. to change state to perform an operation a request for information e.g. current status of a network device and report of status of the network devices .

The type of communication generated by the communication generation module can be based on logic rules an instruction from the communication engine and or some other factor. Similarly the particular network devices that are the intended recipients of a communication generated by the communication generation module can be determined by the communication engine logic rules and or some other factor. In any case the addresses of the intended recipients are provided to the communication generation module by the communication engine . Once received the communication generation module incorporates the addresses into the communication generated by the communication generation module .

When the communication generated by the communication generation module is complete the communication engine sends the communication through the various communication channels and the network . As stated above in certain example embodiments the communication is broadcast by the communication engine throughout the system so that all network devices receive the communication. In such a case a multi cast network protocol can be used. A request can also be sent to one or more specific network devices e.g. the intended recipients according to some example embodiments. Any communication sent and or received by the communication engine can be executed using the application interface .

When the communication engine receives one or more communications from the network devices the communication engine can also determine whether all of the intended recipients also called the recipient devices among the network devices in the system have responded to a prior communication sent by the communication engine . For example as stated above logic rules may require that the recipient devices of a communication sent by the communication engine send a response e.g. receipt acknowledgment status of the network device to the communication engine .

If the communication engine has not received an appropriate response communication or any communication within a certain amount of time from all recipient devices the communication engine can resend the communication and or send a different communication to some e.g. the recipient devices or all of the network devices . In such a case the communication engine can determine whether a particular network device is functioning properly and or whether one or more of the communication channels has failed. The communication engine can repeat this process any of a number of times.

In certain example embodiments the communication engine resends a communication if necessary according to a threshold count stored in the thresholds in the storage repository . In such a case the communication engine can also include a counter. If a network device that is an intended recipient device becomes a non responding device by virtue for example of not sending a response communication the communication engine can track the number of times a communication has been sent without receiving a response communication from a non responding device. In addition or in the alternative the timer function of the communication engine can track an amount of time between events e.g. communications .

Continuing with the hardware processor within the control device executes software in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the hardware processor executes the control device or any of the engines and repositories described above and shown in as well as software used by the user and or one or more network devices . The hardware processor can be an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor in one or more example embodiments. The hardware processor is known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microprocessor and a multi core processor. In one or more example embodiments the hardware processor executes software instructions stored in memory . The memory includes one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. The memory is discretely located on the control device relative to the hardware processor according to some example embodiments. In certain configurations the memory also is integrated with the hardware processor .

Optionally in one or more example embodiments the security module secures interactions between the control device the user and or the network devices . More specifically the security module authenticates communication from software based on security keys verifying the identity of the source of the communication. For example user software may be associated with a security key enabling the user software to interact with the control device and or the network devices . Further the security module restricts receipt of information requests for information and or access to information in some example embodiments.

The user software can interact with the control device and or the network devices using a browser extension. In this case the browser extension maintains an active session with the control device and or the network devices after the security module has authenticated the user software. For example the browser extension continues to interact with the control device as the user views various web content in the user software. In this example the browser extension receives notifications from the control device for presenting to the user .

As discussed above the user control device and network devices can use their own system or share a system in certain example embodiments. Such a system can be or contain a form of an Internet based or an intranet based computer system that is capable of communicating with various software. A computer system includes any type of computing device and or communication device including but not limited to the control device . Examples of such a system can include but are not limited to a desktop computer with Internet or intranet access a laptop computer with Internet or intranet access a smart phone a server a server farm and a personal digital assistant PDA . Such a system can correspond to a computer system as described below with regard to .

Further as discussed above such a system can have corresponding software e.g. user software and network device software . The software can execute on the same or a separate device e.g. a server mainframe desktop personal computer PC laptop personal desktop assistant PDA television cable box satellite box kiosk telephone mobile phone or other computing devices and can be coupled by a network e.g. Internet Intranet Extranet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or other network communication methods and or communication channels with wire and or wireless segments according to some example embodiments. The software of one system can be a part of or operate separately but in conjunction with the software of another system within the system .

In certain example embodiments the control device does not include a hardware processor . In such a case the control device can include as an example one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA . Using FPGAs and or other similar devices known in the art allows the control device to be programmable and function according to certain logic rules and thresholds without the use of a hardware processor.

In addition a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that additional steps not shown in may be included in performing this method. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps should not be construed as limiting the scope. Further a particular computing device as described for example in below can be used to perform one or more of the steps for the method described below in certain exemplary embodiments.

Referring now to the example method begins at the START step and proceeds to step where a communication is sent to one or more network devices . The communication can be generated and sent by the control device or more specifically the communication engine of the control device . The communication can be broadcast to all of the network devices in the system using a multi cast network protocol . The communication can include a unique target address for each network device to which the communication is intended. In other words even though the communication is sent to all network devices only those network devices whose unique address is included in the communication will be able to determine the contents of the communication.

In certain example embodiments the size of the communication including the target addresses for the intended recipient network devices is limited. For example the size of a communication may be no larger than one Ethernet frame about 1 400 bytes . By limiting the size of the communication to one Ethernet frame communication stability can be improved especially when conditions of some or all components e.g. a communication channel the network of the communication network are poor. Alternatively the size of a communication may be the same size as or larger than one Ethernet frame. The communication can be sent using one or more communication channels and or a network in the system . In some cases one or more particular communications channels are used based on a priority and or other characteristic of the communication. The communication can be for any purpose as determined by the control device .

In step one or more responses are received from the network devices . In certain example embodiments the responses are sent by the network devices in response to the communication sent by the control device . In certain example embodiments the responses are received by the control device . The responses can more generally be called communications. The network devices that send the responses can be called responding devices. The responding devices can be some or all of the intended recipient network devices whose addresses were included in the communication of step . Each response can include the address of the responding device sending the communication. Each response can also include the address of the control device receiving the response.

A response received from a network device can use the same communication channel s on which the communication of step was sent by the control device . Alternatively the response received from a network device can use one or more different communication channel s from those used to send the communication of step . In the latter case the communication channels used in step and step can be a pair of communication channels. A system can have multiple pairs of communication channels. In such a case a communication is sent on one of the pairs of communication channels based on the priority and or other characteristic of the communication which can be determined for example by the control device .

In step once the responses of step are received a determination is made as to whether there are non responding devices among the intended recipient network devices . In certain example embodiments the determination is made by the control device . For this determination to be made the control device can compare the address of each response received in step against the addresses included in the communication sent in step . Any addresses in the communication sent in step that are not associated with a response received in step are addresses of one or more non responding devices. If there are non responding devices the process proceeds to step . If there are no non responding devices i.e. each of the intended recipient network devices sent a response the process proceeds to the END step.

In step a determination is made as to whether a count has exceeded a threshold count. The determination is made by the control device . The threshold count is among the thresholds stored in the storage repository and the count is made by the control device . The count can be based on the number of times that a communication has been sent by the control device . In certain example embodiments a criteria e.g. history of a slow response by a network device other than or in addition to a count can be used to determine if a threshold has been exceeded. The threshold count can vary based on one or more of a factors including but not limited to the priority of the communication the number of intended recipient network devices the time between resending a communication and the protocol e.g. multi cast network protocol used for the communication. If the count exceeds the threshold count the process proceeds to step . If the count does not exceed the threshold count the process proceeds to step .

In step a communication is resent to the network devices . The communication can be identical or substantially similar to the communication of step . Specifically the communication can include the addresses of the intended recipient network devices including the responding devices i.e. the network devices that have already responded to a prior communication on which the resent communication is based . The communication can be resent in the same or a different manner than the manner in which the original communication and or any prior related communication was sent. After step is complete the process can revert to step .

In step one or more non responding devices is identified. The one or more non responding devices can also be reported e.g. a notification can be sent to a user . In certain example embodiments the non responding devices can be identified and reported by the control device . In addition or in the alternative the control device can identify and report other components of the system that are not working properly. For example if multiple intended recipient network devices share the same communication channel and if all of those intended recipient network devices are non responding devices the control device may determine that the communication channel rather than the non responding devices should be reported. After step is complete the process can proceed to the END step.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus includes wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component includes volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component includes fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more I O devices allow a customer utility or other user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the customer utility or other user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include but are not limited to a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone and a scanner. Examples of output devices include but are not limited to a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer and a network card.

Various techniques are described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques are stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media is any available non transitory medium or non transitory media that is accessible by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media includes computer storage media .

 Computer storage media and computer readable medium include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to computer recordable media such as RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which is used to store the desired information and which is accessible by a computer.

The computer device is connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown according to some exemplary embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means take other forms now known or later developed in other exemplary embodiments. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer device is located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network in certain exemplary embodiments. Further one or more embodiments is implemented on a distributed system having one or more nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. communication engine is located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node corresponds to a processor with associated physical memory in some exemplary embodiments. The node alternatively corresponds to a processor with shared memory and or resources in some exemplary embodiments.

Using example embodiments of communicating with network devices allows a user and or a control device to understand in real time when one or more network devices fail to operate in the manner expected. This information can be used during steady state operation of one or more network devices and or when the state of one or more network devices changes. Existing equipment e.g. network communication channels needed to communicate with network devices can be used so additional resources needed to use example embodiments are minimal. Installation or alteration of a control device and its corresponding functionality as described herein may also be minimal. Specifically if a control device already is in place a simple addition to existing operating parameters and or change in software logic rules can be installed. If a control device is not already in place one can be installed seamlessly often using wireless or a minimal amount of wired technology.

Example embodiments are more efficient than existing communication systems. Specifically example embodiments use less bandwidth fewer communication channels and significantly less processing capability. As a result processing equipment present fewer thermal issues using example embodiments. Further costs of installing replacing and or maintaining a communication system using example embodiments is reduced. Thus labor costs can also be reduced using example embodiments.

Although embodiments described herein are made with reference to example embodiments it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications are well within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described herein are not limited to any specifically discussed application and that the embodiments described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. From the description of the example embodiments equivalents of the elements shown therein will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and ways of constructing other embodiments using the present disclosure will suggest themselves to practitioners of the art. Therefore the scope of the example embodiments is not limited herein.

