---

title: Systems, methods and media for translating informational content
abstract: Systems, methods, and media for translating informational content via a publishing server are provided herein. Methods may include receiving a request for informational content from a visitor device, the request including a language preference, responsive to the request, locating informational content stored in a database based upon analytical data corresponding to the visitor device, translating at least a portion of the informational content utilizing the language preference of the request if a language of the informational content does not correspond to the language preference of the request, and storing the translated at least a portion of the informational content in the database associated with the publishing server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471563&OS=09471563&RS=09471563
owner: SDL Inc.
number: 09471563
owner_city: Wakefield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140707
---
The present U.S. patent application is a continuation of and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 037 262 entitled Systems Methods and Media for Translating Informational Content filed on Feb. 28 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein including all references cited therein. This continuation U.S. patent application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 037 273 entitled Systems Methods and Media For Generating Analytical Data filed Feb. 28 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 510 913 entitled Translating Documents Based On Content filed Jul. 28 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 572 021 entitled Providing Machine Generated Translations and Corresponding Trust Levels filed Oct. 1 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 720 536 entitled Predicting the Cost Associated with Translating Textual Content filed Mar. 9 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 820 061 entitled Providing Human Generated and Machine Generated Trusted Translations filed Jun. 21 2010 the disclosures of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present technology relates generally to translating informational content via a publishing server and more specifically but not by way of limitation to systems methods and media for translating informational content. In some embodiments the systems methods and media may be adapted to translate informational content dynamically utilizing both analytical data and language preferences.

Commonly utilized methods for translating information content include human or manual translation of the informational content from a first language to one or more different languages. While human translation may create suitable translations the cost associated with human translation can be prohibitive if the informational content needs to be translated into a plurality of languages or requires frequent translations due to frequent modification of the informational content.

Therefore many different methods and systems have been created to automatically translate informational content via mechanical translators e.g. computing systems adapted to translate informational content . Unfortunately commonly utilized mechanical translators translate static informational content and provide no mechanisms for verifying the accuracy of the translations. For example some mechanical translators will scrape textual data from a content source such as a published web page or document translate the text and provide the text to end users. Therefore mechanical translators are not adapted to translate informational content that has been gathered from a data source in a raw e.g. non rendered format such as XML.

According to some embodiments methods for translating informational content are provided herein. Such methods may include receiving a request for informational content from a computing system the request including a language preference responsive to the request locating informational content stored in a database based upon analytical data corresponding to the computing system translating at least a portion of the informational content utilizing the language preference of the request if a language of the informational content does not correspond to the language preference of the request and storing the translated at least a portion of the informational content in the database associated with the publishing server.

In other embodiments systems for translating informational content may include a memory for storing executable instructions for translating informational content and a processor configured to execute the executable instructions stored in the memory to receive a request for informational content from a computing system the request including a language preference responsive to the request locate informational content stored in a database based upon analytical data corresponding to the computing system translate at least a portion of the informational content utilizing the language preference of the request if the language of the informational content does not correspond to the language preference of the request and store the translated at least a portion of the informational content in the database associated with the publishing server.

Other embodiments of the present technology may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium having a computer program embodied thereon the computer program executable by a processor in a computing system to perform a method for translating informational content. The exemplary method for translating informational content may include receiving a request for informational content from a computing system the request including a language preference responsive to the request locating informational content stored in a database based upon analytical data corresponding to the computing system translating at least a portion of the informational content utilizing the language preference of the request if a language of the informational content does not correspond to the language preference of the request and storing the translated at least a portion of the informational content in the database associated with the publishing server.

While this technology is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail several specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the technology and is not intended to limit the technology to the embodiments illustrated.

As stated above the systems and methods of the present technology may be adapted to translate informational content. It will be understood that in some embodiments the informational content may be created in an extensible markup language format. As such translation of the informational content may be facilitated by translation of the informational content in its extensible markup language format from a first language to one or more different languages. Therefore in various exemplary embodiments translated informational content remains in its raw extensible language format until it is rendered and provided to the end user based upon the language preference of the end user.

Broadly described the systems and methods provided herein may allow content authors to select the type of translation utilized to translate the informational content based upon analytical data regarding the relative number of requests received from end users. For example if the systems and methods determine that a substantial majority of end users are requesting the same type of informational content in the English language the content authors may create an authoritative version of the informational content in the English language.

As such requests for the same informational content in a language different from English require translation of the informational content by the systems and methods of the present technology.

Because the translation of informational content via human beings can be costly the systems and methods may translate infrequent requested informational content by way of machine translation. Content authors may utilize the systems and methods provided herein to establish translation guidelines that are utilized to select an appropriate type of translation for each request received. For example to reduce translation costs content authors may specify that infrequent requests for informational content in a particular language may result in the translation of the informational content into the particular language via machine translators. The utilization of machine translators rather than human translators results in significant cost savings for content authors. The ability for content authors to select the type of translation may be particularly important for content authors who provide content across a wide array of communication channels and in many languages.

In some embodiments the systems and methods provide translated informational content to content authors before the translated informational content is provided to the end user. Content authors may trust score the translated informational content based upon the accuracy of the translated informational content. Content authors may specify that only translated informational content having a trust score above a threshold amount may be stored or provided to end users.

In additional embodiments the systems and methods may provide content authors with the ability to edit translated informational content on the fly. Moreover end users may provide feedback regarding the accuracy of the informational content as to both the translation and the subject matter of the informational content. If the language utilized by the end user is different than the language utilized by the content author the systems and methods may translate the feedback utilizing the language preference of the end user.

Upon the content author updating the translated informational content the updated informational content may be translated from the language of the content author to the language of the end user either via machine translation or human translation.

In contrast to commonly utilized methods for translating informational content that are utilized to translate static content the systems and methods of the present technology may translate informational content on the fly responsive to user requests and utilizing the preferences of end users as determined by analytical data. Stated otherwise rather than translating already rendered informational content which may or may not correspond to the preferences of the end user the systems and methods may render and translate informational content that specifically corresponds to the preferences of the end user. Stated otherwise after the systems and methods have translated the informational content the translated informational content is personalized to the end user based on their preferences. It will be understood that the preferences of the end user may be determined via an analysis of analytical data obtained from the end user.

The present technology may include machine translation features such as determining translation quality level translating documents based on content as well as incorporate other features. Exemplary features are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 510 913 entitled Translating Documents Based On Content filed on Jul. 28 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 572 021 entitled Providing Machine Generated Translations and Corresponding Trust Levels filed on Oct. 1 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 720 536 entitled Predicting the Cost Associated with Translating Textual Content filed on Mar. 9 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 820 061 entitled Providing Human Generated and Machine Generated Trusted Translations filed on Jun 21 2010 the disclosures of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Referring to a schematic diagram of an exemplary architecture for practicing aspects of the present technology is depicted. Generally speaking the architecture may include a plurality of client devices A shown herein as a single client device A that are communicatively coupled to one or more publishing servers shown herein as a single publishing server via a network . The network may include any one of a number of different communication channels and in some embodiments may include the Internet. It will be understood that the client devices A may be utilized by content authors to establish translation guidelines and review translations for accuracy as will be described in greater detail herein.

In some implementations the respective functionalities of the publishing server may be distributed across a plurality of servers that reside in a cloud computing configuration not shown .

The architecture may also include a plurality of visitor devices B shown herein as a single visitor device B communicatively coupled to the publishing server via the network . The visitor device B may be associated with visitors that request and receive information content via the publishing server .

Both the client device A and the visitor device B may include any general purpose computing system that may implement a web browser application or other suitable applications adapted to request and provide information such as web content to and from the publishing server . A suitable exemplary client device A or visitor device B may include the computing system disclosed with reference to . Additionally the publishing server may also include many of the components of computing system although specific implementational and structural details regarding the publishing server will be provided below.

As stated above the publishing server may be adapted to generate analytical data and utilize the generated analytical data to dynamically generate informational content. For example the publishing server may be adapted to generate analytical data from actions performed on the publishing server by one or more visitor devices B.

According to some embodiments the publishing server may be adapted to translate informational content on the fly responsive to user requests. Additionally the publishing server may be adapted to select informational content to be translated by evaluating analytical data associated with visitor devices B. It will be understood that the analytical data may be generated from an analytical data gathering module which will be described in greater detail below. It will further be understood that analytical data may include device configuration information language preference behavioral information demographical information and so forth gathered from the visitor device B.

According to some embodiments the publishing server may be communicatively coupled to a database that is utilized by content authors to store informational content. In some embodiments the database includes an extensible markup language XML database. Informational content generated by the content authors may be stored in the XML database in a native XML format until requested by end users. It will be understood that the database may utilize a Darwin Information Typing Architecture DITA for authoring producing and delivering information although one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other types of information architectures may likewise be utilized in accordance with the present technology.

It will be understood that because the database may be adapted to utilize DITA architecture the publishing server may be able to generate informational content in a variety of exemplary formats such as portable document format PDF documents via extensible stylesheet language formatting objects XSL FO extensible hypertext markup language rich text format and a plurality of application specific informational content formats e.g. eclipse java oracle and so forth. . While the database has been disclosed as utilizing DITA architecture one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other types of data architectures may likewise be utilized in accordance with the present technology. In addition to generating informational content in a variety of formats the systems and methods provided herein may generate informational content that is translated based upon the language preference of the end user.

Referring now to collectively the publishing server may be described as a particular purpose computing system that includes executable instructions that when executed by the processor of the publishing server cause the publishing server to translate informational content in response to receiving a request for informational content by the client device A. The informational content selected for translation may include informational content that corresponds to analytical data gathered regarding the end user via the client device A. Generally speaking the analytical data may include any of device configuration information user profile information language preferences end user skill level actions performed on a publishing server and other conditions.

While the executable instructions resident on the publishing server may include any number of modules engines applications functions and so forth for the purposes of clarity the executable instructions may be generally described as a translation application having one or more modules.

Generally speaking the translation application may include a user interface module a communications module a translation management module and an analytical translator engine . It will be understood that the translation application may include fewer or more modules and or engines and still fall within the scope of the present technology.

In some embodiments such as in the translation application may include a standalone application executable via the client device A and the visitor device B. In other embodiments the translation application may reside on another computing device not shown that is communicatively coupled to the publishing server . The translation application may interact with the publishing server and database . In additional embodiments such as in the translation application may include a web based application residing on the publishing server that may be accessible via a web browser application resident on both the client device A or the visitor device B.

In some embodiments the translation application is communicatively coupled to an informational content delivery application that includes an analytical data gathering module . Both the informational content delivery application and the analytical data gathering module may reside on the publishing server . Generally speaking the informational content delivery application may provide informational content that corresponds to analytical data gathered by the analytical data gathering module . That is rather than providing end users with static informational content the informational content delivery application may provide end users with informational content that is tailored to the preference of the end user. Additional details regarding the analytical data gathering module are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 037 273 filed on Feb. 28 2011 titled SYSTEMS METHODS AND MEDIA FOR GENERATING ANALYTICAL DATA. 

Content authors may interact with the translation application via graphical user interface generated by the user interface module . That is content authors may utilize graphical user interfaces to control the operation of one or more of the functionalities of the translation application . The functionalities of the translation application will be discussed in greater detail below.

The communications module may be adapted to receive requests for translated informational content from the visitor device B and provide translated informational content from the publishing server to the visitor device B via the publishing server.

In some embodiments the communications module may communicatively couple the publishing server and the client device A and the visitor device B via a security protocol. According to some embodiments the communications module may utilize a cryptographic application programming interface. In some embodiments the translation application may utilize a representational state transfer RESTful web service API.

Upon the visitor device A accessing the translation application the translation application may communicate with the analytical data gathering module to gather information from the visitor device A. It will be understood that the analytical data gathering module may operate transparently to the end user of the visitor device A.

As background content authors may create authoritative versions of informational content that are stored the database . In some embodiments the authoritative versions may be created in a language that is selected based upon analytical data gathered by the analytical data gathering module . The analytical data may correspond to a plurality of end users gathered from visitor devices B associated with the end users that frequently utilize informational content. As such the authoritative versions of informational content may include informational content in one or more languages frequently utilized by the end users.

Upon receiving a request for informational content from the visitor device B the translation management module may be executed by the processor of the publishing server to determine the language preference of the end user. The translation management module may accomplish these ends by way of the analytical data gathering module . In some embodiments the analytical data gathering module may determine language preferences from informational content frequently accessed by the end user. In other embodiments the translation management module may determine language preference data by way of explicit information included in the request. For example the end user may submit a request for informational content via a web form that allows the end user to specify a language preference.

If the language preference of the end user is the same as one or more authoritative versions of informational content stored on the database the communications module may provide the informational content to the end user without need for translation.

If the language preference of the end user is not the same as an authoritative version of the informational content stored on the database translation management module may be adapted to determine a type of translation that may be utilized to translate the informational content by way of translation guidelines established by the content authors. It will be understood that in some embodiments the translation management module may assign a translation priority level to each request that is utilized to determine the type of translation that will be utilized to translate the informational content. Additionally the content authors may specify the details of the translation priority levels utilized by the translation management module .

In additional embodiments content authors may specify that certain types of informational content may always be subject to machine translation regardless of trust score. Content authors may specify that certain types of informational content may be subject to machine translation as long as the machine translation achieves a specific trust score. For example content authors may specify that it is permissible for the analytical translator engine to translate and provide the translated informational content to an end user if the translation achieves a trust score of three or greater. Additionally content authors may specify that some types of informational content such as critical informational content are always translated ahead of time by one or more human translators.

According to some embodiments the translation management module may select the type of translation utilized to translate the informational content by determining a priority for the request. It will be understood that in some embodiments the priority may be based upon aggregate demand or the criticality of the informational content.

For example assuming that English is the language of the authoritative version of the requested informational content requests for the informational content in a language different from the language of the authoritative version may be analyzed by the translation management module to determine a priority of the translation.

If the priority of the translation is low the translation management module may instruct the analytical translator engine to utilize one or more types of machine translation only. In contrast if the priority of the translation is high the analytical translator engine may utilize one or more human translators. If the priority of the translation falls somewhere between low and high combinations of both machine and human translation may be utilized.

In some embodiments the priority of a translation may be determined by first establishing threshold levels indicative of aggregate numbers of requests for informational content relative to language preference. For example threshold levels may be stratified into translation guidelines that include a first threshold amount a second threshold amount and a third threshold amount.

If the language preference of the request is the same as the language preference of the first threshold amount the informational content may be translated by one or more human translators. If the language preference of the request is the same as the language preference of the second threshold amount the informational content may be translated by both one or more human translators and one or more machine translators and if the language preference of the request is the same as the language preference of the third threshold amount the informational content may be translated by one or more machine translators only.

Moreover the translation guidelines that are utilized by the translation management module may be defined by the content authors. For example the content author may specify the requirements of the threshold amounts.

In some embodiments all human translation of informational content may be executed ahead of time that is before the informational content is provided to the end users. For example using analytical data gathered from analytical data gathering module a determination is made if informational content should be translated by a human ahead of time prior to receiving requests and then made available to end users. On the other hand if informational content is not translated ahead of time via human translators the informational content may be machine translated on the fly machine upon receiving a request for informational content.

Because content authors may specify how the translation management module prioritizes the translation of informational content the content authors may substantially reduce the cost of unnecessary translations of infrequently requested informational content. Correspondingly content authors may delineate the types of informational content that may be translated by human translators regardless of the frequency of use based upon the criticality of the informational content. A non limiting example of critical informational content may include an installation manual for a mechanical system which if installed improperly may pose a significant danger to operators.

Content authors may specify that one or more human translators may translate critical informational content. In some embodiments critical informational content may be translated a first time by one or more machine translators and a second time by one or more human translators. As such the one or more human translators may verify the accuracy of the informational content translated by the one or more machine translators.

Once informational content has been translated into one or more languages the translated informational content may be stored in the database . The translated informational content may be provided to end users upon subsequent request without the need to subsequently translate the informational content.

In additional embodiments when a content author modifies informational content in a particular language the analytical translator engine may be executed to locate previously translated versions of the informational content and translate the modifications into additional languages based upon previous translations. The translated modifications may be incorporated into the previously translated informational content by the analytical translator engine .

Rather than translating only the modifications the analytical translator engine may retranslate the entire informational content into additional languages. The translation of modifications may also be subject to prioritization by the content author. The ability of the analytical translator engine to incorporate modifications into previously translated informational content is enhanced by the ability of the database to retain the informational content in XML format.

After the analytical translator engine has caused the translation of informational content by one or more of the above described methods the translated informational content may be provided via the communications module to one or more content authors for verification of the accuracy of the translation. In some embodiments content authors may trust score a translation for accuracy. Therefore translations receiving a trust score of less than a threshold trust score are rejected and may not be stored in the database or provided to the visitor device B. In contrast translations receiving a trust score of higher than a threshold trust score are approved and may be stored in the database or provided to the visitor device B. Translations having a trust score that falls within a given range of values may optionally be retranslated and rescored by the content authors.

For example one or more machine translators may translate informational content. Subsequent evaluations of the translations by content authors may result in the content authors associating the translations with a trust score that falls within the given range of values. As such the content authors may specify that the translations be retranslated utilizing a second type of translator e.g. human translators that is different that the first type of translator e.g. machine translators .

According to other embodiments content authors may receive feedback from the end users regarding the translation of the informational content. Feedback may include data corresponding to the accuracy of the translation the comprehensiveness of the informational content and so forth. Because the end user may be utilizing a different language from the content author the translation management module may determine the language associated with the feedback. The language determined by the translation management module may be utilized by the analytical translator engine to translate the feedback into the language utilized by the content manager.

Any modifications of the informational content by the content author based upon the feedback may finally be translated into the language of the end user by the analytical translator engine . The previously translated informational content that is stored in the database may be updated by the analytical translator engine to reflect the modifications.

In other embodiments the translation application may provide content authors with a content editor not shown that is generated by the user interface module . The content editor provides the content author or other authorized entities the ability to quickly edit portions of translations of informational content based upon feedback received from end users or from content authors reviewing the translation of the informational content.

If desired changes to the informational content received from the content authors may be automatically translated and incorporated into previously translated informational content that resides on the database via the analytical translator engine .

In operations where the request is received via an informational content delivery application the informational content delivery application may provide the request to the translation application via the communications module of the translation application. It will be understood that the communications module of the translation application may utilize a secure protocol for transmitting data across a network.

Responsive to the request received in step the method may include the step of locating informational content stored in a database based upon analytical data corresponding to the visitor device from which the request was received. It will be understood that the analytical data may be gathered via an analytical data gathering module associated with the informational content delivery application. As stated previously the database includes a wide variety of informational content stored in an XML format.

Next the method may include the step of translating at least a portion of the informational content utilizing the language preference of the request if the language of the informational content does not correspond to the language preference of the request. Finally the method may include the step of storing the translated at least a portion of the informational content in the database associated with the publishing server. The translated informational content may be provided to the database via the secure protocol utilized by the communications module of the translation application.

The method may include the optional step A of selecting the type of translation to be utilized to translate the informational content based upon priority. As described in greater detail above infrequently requested informational content may be translated by machine translators while more frequently requested informational content or critical informational content may be translated by human translators. The ability for content authors to select the type of translation to be utilized to translate informational content based upon priority may provide significant cost savings compared to methods that wholesale translate informational content without regard to priority. As such the optional step A of selecting the type of translation to be utilized may be executed before the step of translating.

Additionally as has been stated previously because the step A of translating occurs only when a request is received unnecessary translation of informational content may be avoided thus reducing overall translation costs. This is in contrast to typical methods for distributing translated informational content that includes translating informational content before a request or demand for the informational content has been determined.

The method may also include an optional step A of providing the translated informational content to one or more content authors. The content authors may trust score the accuracy of the translation and specify that only translated informational content having a trust score above a threshold amount may be stored in the database or provided to an end user via their client device.

Assuming the translation of the informational content achieves a trust score above the threshold amount the method may include the step of providing the translated informational content to the computing device from which the request for informational content was received.

On the other hand if the trust score of a translation is below the threshold amount the method may include the step of providing a message to the end user that the informational content is currently unavailable.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor unit and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device and display system may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor unit . Mass storage device can store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or digital video disc to input and output data and code to and from the computing system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computing system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alphanumeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripherals may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computing system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components contained in the computing system of are those typically found in computing systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present technology and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computing system of can be a personal computer hand held computing system telephone mobile computing system workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. The computer can also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems can be used including UNIX Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS and other suitable operating systems.

Some of the above described functions may be composed of instructions that are stored on storage media e.g. computer readable medium . The instructions may be retrieved and executed by the processor. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tapes disks and the like. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the technology. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage media.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. The terms computer readable storage medium and computer readable storage media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or data exchange adapter a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the technology will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. The scope of the technology should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

