---

title: Landing hazard avoidance display
abstract: Landing hazard avoidance displays can provide rapidly understood visual indications of where it is safe to land a vehicle and where it is unsafe to land a vehicle. Color coded maps can indicate zones in two dimensions relative to the vehicles position where it is safe to land. The map can be simply green (safe) and red (unsafe) areas with an indication of scale or can be a color coding of another map such as a surface map. The color coding can be determined in real time based on topological measurements and safety criteria to thereby adapt to dynamic, unknown, or partially known environments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09446851&OS=09446851&RS=09446851
owner: National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09446851
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141118
---
This invention described herein was made in part by an employee of the United States Government and was made with government support under contract numbers NNX09CB10C and NNX08CC40P awarded by NASA. The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Embodiments relate to navigation aviation and avionics for landing aircraft spacecraft and submarines. In particular embodiments relate to display of information to allow an impromptu selection of a hazard free landing site.

Prior art landing hazard displays concentrate on showing a user the actual hazards present in landing zones. For example tall buildings antennae and power lines can be indicated such that a pilot or remote operator can take notice and avoid the hazard. Such hazard displays are incredibly valuable and have doubtless played a role in making air travel safer than highway travel. In a similar manner spacecraft can be landed more reliably when the hazards around a selected landing zone are clearly marked. Spacecraft landing hazards tend to be mountains craters chasms and other geological features.

Detecting or viewing hazards in landing zones is most crucial in the final stages of landing an aircraft or spacecraft because it is at this time that hazards in the landing area are most detectable and mishaps most imminent. Traditional displays like synthetic vision systems do not provide the necessary depth cues to allow pilots to assess risk from obstacles quickly and accurately. Systems and methods that aid users in rapidly understanding the hazard environment using two two dimensional maps are needed particularly when the user must quickly select a hazard free landing site.

Aspects of the embodiments address limitations and flaws in the prior art by producing color coded hazard maps that are rapidly understandable. It has been determined in practice that color coded two dimensional surface maps are usually understood more rapidly than three dimensional displays.

It is therefore an aspect of the embodiments that a vehicle moving along a flight path can measure the topology of the surface along the flight path. An aircraft can use LIDAR RADAR or related technologies to measure the topology. Regular imaging such as video can be used but is less capable of measuring the surface profile than other technologies. A submarine can use a variety of technologies including SONAR. Here a submarine is treated as a vehicle that flies through the water.

It is another aspect of the embodiments that safety criteria describe safe or unsafe surface topologies or other conditions. For an aircraft the surface topology is the land surface and can include measurements of elevation as well as measurements of ground clutter such as bushes. For submarines the surface is the sea bottom and may also indicate ground clutter. The ability to sense clutter and differentiate it from the ground is a property of the sensing platform.

The safety criteria includes at least one topological criterion. A topological criterion is a description of surface topology that is safe to land on or that is unsafe to land on. For example the ground slope is a good criterion because it is usually unsafe to attempt landing on the edge of a cliff or steep mountainside. Similarly a relatively flat area can be ideal for a vehicle capable of vertical landing. An aircraft requiring a landing strip can safely land on a flat surface with a minimum length of flat surface behind the landing point. Note that runway length can be adjusted up or down due to ground slope and other conditions.

Another topological criterion can indicate if a vehicle can relaunch or take back off from a landing site. For example surface elevation or air pressure is a good indicator if an aircraft particularly a helicopter can take off again. Such a criterion can use a default vehicle weight or can account for fuel levels or cargo weights. If known a prevalent air pressure or predicted air pressure can be used to help determine if the vehicle will probably be able to relaunch.

Yet other safety criteria can be based on other physical properties of the vehicle such as width weight ability to handle rough surfaces propensity to being damaged by ingesting things into the engines and other factors.

An additional safety criteria can be the presence of transient hazards such as other vehicles. For example a hot air balloon floating past can cause much of the terrain on the far side of the balloon to be unsafe for landing. As the balloon moves some terrain becomes safe and other terrain becomes unsafe. The safety criteria in such a scenario most likely provides for a safety exclusion zone or envelope around the balloon. Other vehicles should avoid flying within the envelope or exclusion zone because otherwise they get too close to the balloon.

It is yet another aspect of the embodiments to apply the safety criteria to the topology measurement. A geographical area meeting a safe criteria can be marked or color coded as safe. A geographical area meeting an unsafe criteria can be marked or color coded as unsafe. Some embodiments can have only safe criteria with everywhere not meeting the criteria being unsafe by default. Similarly other embodiments can have only unsafe criteria. Embodiments can use both safe and unsafe criteria to definitively mark areas as safe or unsafe while leaving the remaining areas as either unmarked not color coded or color coded as neutral. Certain embodiments can also have an unknown coding for geographic areas for which the topological measurements or data is insufficient. The color codes themselves can be a default set that everyone uses or can be set by user preference. For example red can indicate unsafe green safe grey neutral and black unknown.

A further aspect of the embodiments is that the hazard map is presented to a person such as the vehicles pilot. The hazard map can be updated as the vehicle moves or outside conditions such as a moving balloon change. As with other map displays currently in use the hazard display can be set relative to the outside such as north always at the top of the map or can be set relative to the vehicle flight path such as the top of the map being the direction of travel.

The hazard map can be a simple display having little more than for example red areas green areas and an indicator of the vehicles position. The hazard map can be a colorization of a surface map such that the user can see ground detail. For example a surface map can be a grey scale rendering of the surface topology or surface features. Unsafe areas can use different shades of red instead of grey whereas safe areas can use shades of green. Other colorizations include tinting and colored partially transparent overlays.

The hazard map can be two dimensional or three dimensional and as discussed above can include surface detail. Similarly the hazard map can be displayed in two or three dimensions. To date the two dimensional embodiments have been preferable because of ease of understanding and the prevalent display technologies.

Of further note the hazard display can have sufficiently fine resolution that very small safe spots or unsafe can be indicated. For example a vehicle with landing pads can land wherever its pads touch green safe even if much of the terrain is red unsafe . Similarly that same craft can be rotated or shifted slightly to avoid putting a pad in a red spot.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Landing hazard avoidance displays can provide rapidly understood visual indications of where it is safe to land a vehicle and where it is unsafe to land a vehicle. Color coded maps can indicate zones in two dimensions relative to the vehicles position where it is safe to land. The map can be simply green safe and red unsafe areas with an indication of scale or can be a color coding of another map such as a surface map. The color coding can be determined in real time based on topological measurements and safety criteria to thereby adapt to dynamic unknown or partially known environments.

The topology measurement can be used for numerous purposes. A surface map module can interpret the topology measurement and produce a surface map . A surface map can be useful when a stored surface map is not available is of too low a resolution or quality is outdated or is deficient in some other manner. The surface map can also be correlated with a stored surface map to better determine the vehicle s position. The topology measurement can also be submitted to an analysis module that interprets the topology measurement based on safety criteria to determine geographic areas where the vehicle can safely land cannot safely land or both. The safe and unsafe areas can be used to generate a hazard map .

Depending on the embodiment the hazard map can show areas that are known to be safe while assuming all others are unsafe and can show areas that are known to be unsafe and leave the other areas undetermined. In general the hazard map can show any combination of one or more of the following known safe areas known unsafe areas known but neutral areas and unknown areas. An area is known safe if one or more of the safety criteria positively indicate that it is safe and none of the safety criteria positively indicate that it is unsafe. An area is unsafe if any of the safety criteria positively indicate that the area is unsafe. An area is known but neutral if it is covered by the topology measurement but does not match any of the safety criteria. An area is unknown if the topology data does not include the area or the topology data is deficient by being too noisy too low a resolution etc. An example of an unknown area is one that is shadowed from the transmitted signal by a mountain cliff edge or the near wall of a crater.

The hazard map can be fed directly to a presentation module that provides it as a map display to a user . Alternatively the hazard map can be combined with a surface map by a map combiner to produce a color coded surface map that is displayed to the user .

The prevailing air pressure criterion can be a relaunch criterion. For example a helicopter can land safely but be unable to immediately lift off because the air pressure is too low. Knowing the prevailing air pressure the pilot waits until the air pressure climbs into a suitable range and then takes off. Elevation criterion and air pressure criterion are based on the vehicles performance envelope. The performance envelope is often expressed as a maximum altitude although the reality is that the air pressure is the determining factor. The vehicles weight including fuel and cargo calculations can be used to adjust criteria based on the vehicles performance envelope.

A size criteria such as can ensure that the pilot does not attempt to land in too narrow an area thereby breaking off wings rotors or other necessities.

A performance based take off and landing criterion can show that a runway or landing strip is long enough based on the vehicles weight. Interestingly an airplane pilot can dump fuel thereby lightening the aircraft and observe a landing strip transition from red unsafe to green safe as the hazard display is continuously updated. Here the analysis module is consulting a table that indicates safe runway lengths as a function of gross weight.

A performance based relaunch criterion can show that a runway is too short based on the vehicles gross weight for the aircraft to take off again. The pilot in this scenario should be provided an opportunity to input different cargo and fuel loads.

A safety criterion can indicate the closest that a vehicle should get to another vehicle. The illustrative example indicates an envelope of no closer than 300 feet vertically and no closer than 500 feet horizontally. For example the other vehicle can be a moving airplane. Based on the envelope surrounding that airplane the geographic area on the other side is considered unsafe for landing because attempting to land could involve crashing into the airplane. With patience the airplane should clear the area and the continuously updating hazard map will indicate safe to land.

A roughness based criterion can be used for terrain that is rough but without out of limits slope. An example of this is a potholed or bombed airstrip. Some aircraft can handle potholes up to a certain size others will break. As such this is a performance based criterion.

The surface map in the example is stored in non transitory memory and can be a two dimensional or a three dimensional map. An example of a two dimensional map is a standard map showing ground features and possibly labeling them such as an air chart or road map. A three dimensional map is similar to a two dimensional map with the exception of also having elevation data and in some cases the vertical dimensions or even 3D models of structures and other identifiable features. Given a 3D surface map the color coded map can also be 3D and the map display can be a 3D display. The 3D data can be collapsed to two dimensions anywhere along the rendering chain.

An aspect of embodiments is that some criteria positively indicate safe positively indicate unsafe. It cannot be inferred that every area is unsafe unless marked safe and vice versa. In practice the conservative approach is to always assume unsafe unless known safe but in emergencies it is good to know what might be safe without being sure. For example a safety criteria can be safe if greater than 30 meters from a highway. This criterion gives a positive indication of safe for geographic areas more than 30 meters from a highway. If there is no criterion for unsafe if less than 30 meters from a highway then the area around the highway is neutral. As such the area with 30 meters of the highway is mostly marked neutral because no criterion positively marks it as safe and none positively marks it as unsafe. Recall that an area is unsafe to land in if any criterion positively marks it as unsafe. An area is safe if it is not positively marked unsafe and it is positively marked safe. An area is neutral if it is not positively marked safe or unsafe. Finally an area is marked unknown if there is insufficient data for determining landing safety.

The embodiment and examples set forth herein are presented to best explain the present invention and its practical application and to thereby enable those skilled in the art to make and utilize the invention. Those skilled in the art however will recognize that the foregoing description and examples have been presented for the purpose of illustration and example only. Other variations and modifications of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art following the reading of this disclosure and it is the intent of the appended claims that such variations and modifications be covered.

The description as set forth is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the scope of the invention. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching without departing from the scope of the following claims. It is contemplated that the use of the present invention can involve components having different characteristics. It is intended that the scope of the present invention be defined by the claims appended hereto giving full cognizance to equivalents in all respects.

