---

title: Methods of processing data corresponding to a device that corresponds to a gas, water, or electric grid, and related devices and computer program products
abstract: Methods of operating a communication node are provided. A method of operating a communication node may include receiving data from an electric grid device via a network interface. The method may include processing the data from the electric grid device at the communication node. Moreover, the method may include transmitting a filtered portion of the data to an electric utility head end system, after processing the data at the communication node. In some embodiments, a method of operating a communication node may include using a message broker controlled by a virtual machine in the communication node to provide a protocol to interface with a field message bus that includes a standards-based or open-source Application Programming Interface (API). Related communication nodes and computer program products are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648143&OS=09648143&RS=09648143
owner: DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
number: 09648143
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140429
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 886 496 filed Oct. 3 2013 entitled Methods of Processing Data Corresponding to an Electric Grid Device and Related Communication Nodes and Computer Program Products the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

An electric grid may include various electric grid devices which may be intelligent interconnected equipment that deliver monitor measure and or control the flow of electricity in a power delivery system. The electric grid may also include a telecommunications infrastructure for transporting and delivering information regarding the electric grid as well as analytics architecture and data management tools for managing optimizing the electric grid. Moreover a wide variety of electric grid customer owned assets which may consume store or produce electricity may be connected to the electric grid.

As an electric grid and various interconnected customer owned devices and electric grid devices in the electric grid become more complex it may be more difficult to meet electric utility customers demands regarding response times costs safety and reliability. For example an electric grid may reach diverse geographies customers and vendor technologies. Accordingly processing data and managing electric grid devices may be costly and time consuming.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present inventive concepts.

Various embodiments of the present inventive concepts include a method of operating a communication node. The method may include receiving data from an electric grid device via a network interface. In some embodiments the network interface may include a local area network interface or a wide area network interface. The method may include processing the data from the electric grid device at the communication node. In some embodiments processing the data may include reading Application Layer data at the communication node. Moreover the method may include transmitting a filtered portion of the data to a data center including an electric utility head end system after processing the data at the communication node. In some embodiments a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium including computer readable program code therein may be configured to perform the method.

According to various embodiments the filtered portion of the data received from the electric grid device may include at least one electric grid parameter networking parameter customer parameter security parameter device identification parameter or time stamp parameter. In some embodiments the electric grid device parameter may be a voltage. Additionally or alternatively it will be understood that operations of processing the data may include determining a response decision with respect to the electric grid device or with respect to another electric grid device regarding which the electric grid device provides the data. In some embodiments the method may include transmitting the response decision to the electric utility head end system.

In various embodiments the electric grid device may be a first electric grid device and the communication node may be a first communication node corresponding to the first electric grid device. Moreover the method may include transmitting the filtered portion of the data to a second communication node corresponding to a second electric grid device via a field message bus. Additionally or alternatively the method may include receiving filtered data from a second communication node corresponding to a second electric grid device via a field message bus. In some embodiments the first and second communication nodes may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively. Additionally or alternatively the first and second communication nodes may correspond to different first and second hierarchical tiers respectively in a hierarchical arrangement of communication nodes.

A method of operating a communication node according to various embodiments may include using a message broker controlled by a virtual machine in the communication node to provide a protocol to interface with a field message bus including a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API . Moreover the method may include transmitting or receiving data corresponding to an electric grid device via the field message bus. In some embodiments a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium including computer readable program code therein may configured to perform the method.

In various embodiments the communication node may be a first communication node and the field message bus may interface with a second communication node. Moreover the first and second communication nodes may be respective peer communication nodes having the field message bus therebetween. In some embodiments the first and second communication nodes may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively. Additionally or alternatively the first and second communication nodes may correspond to different first and second hierarchical tiers respectively in a hierarchical arrangement of communication nodes.

According to various embodiments the method may include using the protocol of the message broker to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus. Additionally or alternatively the method may include using the protocol of the message broker to interface with a standards based or open source API based application in the communication node. In some embodiments the method may include using the protocol of the message broker to interface with a plurality of field message buses.

According to various embodiments the virtual machine may operate using an application processor or a partition of a central processing unit of the communication node. Additionally or alternatively the method may include isolating an application processing unit of the communication node from a central processing unit of the communication node using the virtual machine.

A communication node according to various embodiments may include a network interface configured to provide communications with a first electric grid device. The communication node may include a processor configured to control a virtual machine in the communication node. Moreover the virtual machine may be configured to provide a message broker that is configured to interface with a field message bus and or another communication node corresponding to a second electric grid device. In some embodiments the first electric grid device may be an electric utility meter a transformer a light an electric grid control device an electric grid protection device a line sensor a weather sensor an Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMI device an analog or digital sensor connected to an electric utility asset an electric generator an electric turbine an electric boiler an electric vehicle an intelligent switching device a home appliance a battery storage device a capacitor device a solar power device a smart generation device an emission monitoring device or a voltage regulator.

In various embodiments the network interface may include a local area network interface configured to provide communications with the first electric grid device. In some embodiments the local area network interface may be configured to provide communications with a plurality of electric grid devices.

According to various embodiments the network interface may be configured to receive data from the first electric grid device via the network interface. Moreover the virtual machine may be configured to process the data from the first electric grid device at the communication node and the virtual machine may be configured to control transmission of a filtered portion of the data to an electric utility head end system after processing the data at the communication node. In some embodiments the filtered portion of the data received from the first electric grid device may include at least one electric grid device parameter e.g. a voltage networking parameter customer parameter security parameter device identification parameter or time stamp parameter.

In various embodiments the virtual machine may be configured to process the data from the first electric grid device by determining a response decision with respect to the first electric grid device or with respect to a third electric grid device regarding which the first electric grid device provides the data. In some embodiments the virtual machine may be configured to control transmission of the response decision to the electric utility head end system. Moreover in some embodiments the virtual machine may be configured to process the data from the first electric grid device by reading Application Layer data from the electric grid device.

According to various embodiments the communication node may be a first communication node corresponding to the first electric grid device and the other communication node may be a second communication node corresponding to the second electric grid device. Moreover the virtual machine may be configured to control transmission of the filtered portion of the data to the second communication node corresponding to the second electric grid device via the field message bus. Additionally or alternatively the virtual machine may be configured to receive filtered data from the second communication node corresponding to the second electric grid device via the field message bus. In some embodiments the electric utility head end system may be configured to provide communications via a data center message bus and the field message bus may be configured to provide communications independently of the data center message bus.

According to various embodiments the field message bus may include a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API . Moreover the message broker may be configured to provide a protocol to interface with the field message bus that includes the standards based or open source API and the virtual machine may be configured to transmit or receive data corresponding to the second electric grid device via the field message bus. In some embodiments the communication node may be a first communication node the other communication node may be a second communication node configured to interface with the field message bus and the first and second communication nodes may be respective peer communication nodes including the field message bus therebetween. Moreover in some embodiments the first and second communication nodes may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively.

In various embodiments the protocol of the message broker may be configured to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus. Additionally or alternatively the protocol of the message broker may be configured to interface with a standards based or open source API based application in the communication node. Moreover the protocol of the message broker may be configured to interface with a plurality of field message buses.

According to various embodiments the virtual machine may be configured to operate using an application processor or a partition of a central processing unit of the communication node. In some embodiments the virtual machine may be configured to isolate an application processing unit of the communication node from a central processing unit of the communication node.

A method of operating a first device corresponding to a gas water or electric grid according to various embodiments may include receiving data via a network interface from a second device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid. The method may include processing the data from the second device at the first device. Moreover the method may include transmitting a filtered portion of the data to a data center including an utility head end system corresponding to the gas water or electric grid after processing the data at the first device. In some embodiments a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium that includes computer readable program code therein may be configured to perform the method.

In various embodiments the network interface may include a local area network interface or a wide area network interface. Moreover the filtered portion of the data received from the second device may include at least one electric grid parameter water grid parameter gas grid parameter networking parameter customer parameter security parameter device identification parameter or time stamp parameter. In some embodiments processing the data may include determining a response decision at the first device with respect to the data received from the second device. Moreover the response decision may include a response to an event at the second device or at a third device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid.

According to various embodiments the method may include transmitting the response decision to the utility head end system. In some embodiments the method may include transmitting the response decision to a third device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid. Moreover the first second and third devices may include first second and third electric grid devices respectively corresponding to the electric grid and transmitting the response decision may include transmitting the response decision from the first electric grid device to the utility head end system and to the third electric grid device. Alternatively the first and second devices may include first and second electric grid devices respectively corresponding to the electric grid the third device may include a communication node corresponding to a third electric grid device that corresponds to the electric grid and transmitting the response decision may include transmitting the response decision from the first electric grid device to the utility head end system and to the communication node corresponding to the third electric grid device. Alternatively the first device may include a communication node corresponding to a first electric grid device that corresponds to the electric grid the second and third devices may include second and third electric grid devices respectively corresponding to the electric grid and transmitting the response decision may include transmitting the response decision from the communication node corresponding to the first electric grid device to the utility head end system and to the third electric grid device.

In various embodiments processing the data may include reading Application Layer data at the first device. Moreover the utility head end system may be configured to provide communications via a data center message bus and the method may include transmitting the filtered portion of the data to a third device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid via a field message bus that is configured to provide communications independently of the data center message bus. In some embodiments the first and second devices may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively. In some embodiments the first device may include an electric grid device a water grid device a gas grid device a telecommunications system device a server or a home appliance.

A method of operating a first device corresponding to a gas water or electric grid according to various embodiments may include using a message broker and or message client including an embedded protocol that is standardized with respect to a field message bus that includes a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API at the first device. The method may include transmitting or receiving data corresponding to a second device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid via the field message bus. Moreover the first device may be spaced apart from a data center including an utility head end system and the field message bus may be configured to provide communications independently of a data center message bus of the utility head end system. In some embodiments a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium that includes computer readable program code therein may be configured to perform the method.

In various embodiments the first and second devices may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively. In some embodiments the method may include using the embedded protocol of the message broker and or the message client to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus. In some embodiments the method may include using the embedded protocol of the message broker and or the message client to interface with a standards based or open source API based application in the first device. Moreover in some embodiments the method may include using the embedded protocol of the message broker and or the message client to interface with a plurality of field message buses.

A first device corresponding to a gas water or electric grid according to various embodiments may include a network interface configured to provide communications with a second device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid via a field message bus including a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API . The first device may include a processor configured to control a message broker and or message client in the first device the message broker and or message client including an embedded protocol that is standardized with respect to the field message bus. Moreover the first device may be spaced apart from a data center including an utility head end system and the field message bus may be configured to provide communications independently of a data center message bus of the utility head end system.

In various embodiments the network interface may include a local area network interface or a wide area network interface configured to provide communications with the second device. The network interface may be configured to provide communications with a plurality of devices corresponding to the gas water or electric grid.

According to various embodiments the first device may include an electric utility meter a transformer a light an electric grid control device an electric grid protection device a line sensor a weather sensor an Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMI device an analog or digital sensor connected to an electric utility asset an electric generator an electric turbine an electric boiler an electric vehicle an intelligent switching device a home appliance a battery storage device a capacitor device a solar power device a smart generation device an emission monitoring device a water heater a server or a voltage regulator.

In various embodiments the network interface may be configured to receive data from the second device via the network interface. The processor may be configured to process the data from the second device at the first device. Moreover the processor may be configured to control transmission of a filtered portion of the data to the utility head end system after processing the data at the first device. In some embodiments the filtered portion of the data received from the second device may include at least one electric grid parameter water grid parameter gas grid parameter networking parameter customer parameter security parameter device identification parameter or time stamp parameter.

According to various embodiments the first and second devices may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively. In some embodiments the embedded protocol of the message broker and or message client may be configured to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus. In some embodiments the embedded protocol of the message broker and or message client may be configured to interface with a plurality of field message buses.

A first device corresponding to a gas water or electric grid according to various embodiments may be provided. The first device may include a network interface configured to provide communications with a second device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid via a field message bus including a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API . Moreover the first device may include a processor configured to control a brokerless messaging protocol in the first device and the brokerless messaging protocol may be an embedded protocol that is standardized with respect to the field message bus. The first device may be spaced apart from a data center including an utility head end system. The field message bus may be configured to provide communications independently of a data center message bus of the utility head end system. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to control the brokerless messaging protocol to communicate with a protocol of a message broker in a third device via a local area network. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to control the brokerless messaging protocol to communicate with the second device via the field message bus and the processor may be configured to control a protocol of a message broker in the first device to communicate with a third device via a local area network.

In various embodiments the processor may be configured to control the brokerless messaging protocol to contextualize data independently of i.e. outside of the data center. In some embodiments the first device further may include a memory that includes an enterprise wide security application that is on every device in an enterprise that the first and second devices. In some embodiments the processor may be configured to control communications via the field message bus according to an enterprise wide semantic model e.g. a common semantic model . Moreover the processor may be configured to control a determination of capabilities of the second device and the processor may be configured to control incorporation e.g. inclusion input of the capabilities of the second device into the enterprise wide semantic model.

According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to share a portion of a processing capacity or a storage capacity of the first device with the second device. In some embodiments the first device may include reprogrammable hardware and the processor may be configured to reprogram the reprogrammable hardware in response to a command received at the first device via the field message bus.

It is noted that aspects of the present inventive concepts described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated in a different embodiment although not specifically described relative thereto. That is all embodiments and or features of any embodiment can be combined in any way and or combination. Applicants reserve the right to change any originally filed claim or file any new claim accordingly including the right to be able to amend any originally filed claim to depend from and or incorporate any feature of any other claim although not originally claimed in that manner. These and other objects and or aspects of the present inventive concepts are explained in detail below.

Specific example embodiments of the present inventive concepts now will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present inventive concepts may however be embodied in a variety of different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present inventive concepts to those skilled in the art. In the drawings like designations refer to like elements. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected coupled or responsive to another element it can be directly connected coupled or responsive to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore connected coupled or responsive as used herein may include wirelessly connected coupled or responsive.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present inventive concepts. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes comprises including and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. The symbol is also used as a shorthand notation for and or. 

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which these inventive concepts belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be understood that although the terms first and second may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the teachings of the present inventive concepts.

Example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be embodied as nodes and methods. Accordingly example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may take the form of a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Example embodiments of the present inventive concepts are described herein with reference to flowchart and or block diagram illustrations. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions and or hardware operations. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means and or circuits for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Many solutions for managing electric grid devices and or providing data regarding electric grid devices are proprietary are designed for use in only one silo e.g. are incapable of exchanging information with other systems vendors and or interoperate with other systems only after expensive and time consuming integration efforts. For example an electric grid may reach diverse geographies customers and vendor technologies that are not interoperable and therefore may not be capable of providing a necessary capability within a reasonable time period to meet new or current needs. Various embodiments of the inventive concepts described herein however facilitate interoperability and interchangeability between various operational technologies and augment these technologies by providing an interface for the efficient sharing and processing of data closer to the asset s e.g. one or more electric grid devices to rapidly reliably and safely execute operational functions of the electric grid. As an example it will be understood that interchangeability as described herein may refer to the plug and play ability to add a new node e.g. an end point to a network grid without having to set up the node using a head end system.

Specifically a field message bus on a communication node can facilitate interoperability and interchangeability between various operational technologies. The technologies may include for example Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SCADA Energy Management System EMS Distribution Management System DMS Outage Management System OMS Meter Data Management MDM etc. Moreover the field message bus may also augment such technologies by providing a common publish subscription pub sub logical interface for local data access distributed intelligence and peer to peer wireless communication on the electric grid. Further value can be delivered by smart grid activities and the know how can be shared with the utility industry to drive standardization among the vendor community resulting in greater economies of scale improved economics of smart grid technology deployment enhanced asset performance and a step closer toward convergence between Information Technology IT Operational Technology OT and telecommunications activities e.g. different telecommunications networks of a grid.

In particular communication nodes may provide a standards based modular communication platform and may be configured to communicate via a standards based or open source broker agnostic peer to peer and distributed field message bus architecture. Moreover the pub sub messaging interface provided by the field message bus may improve not only the simplicity integrity and security of information exchanges between disparate assets in the field but may also inherently filter a significant amount of unused data overhead and may reduce eliminate the need to backhaul all raw data to a central data center. These benefits can translate into vast savings in the cost of operating IT systems and telecommunications networks and can achieve further value by enabling deployed control schemes that are not presently feasible without distributed decision making closer to the electric grid assets.

Additionally the field message bus provides a messaging technology that can seamlessly integrate with existing communication nodes without disrupting any hardware and software functions presently on board. This noninvasive implementation may employ a Virtual Machine VM to functionally isolate a communication node s application processing unit s where the message bus and its supporting logic may reside from a Central Processing Unit CPU where existing network manager administrative functions may continue to operate concurrently and securely backhaul all raw streaming SCADA data through each data collector module wired communication port or radio modem. In parallel the VM may listen to this existing pass through device data and publish by exception copies of select shared data points to the field message bus. Likewise the VM may also allow Intelligent Electronic Devices IEDs connected to the communication node to subscribe to the field message bus for protection and control commands published by the decoupled application processor s . Loosely coupled to the VM may be a wide variety of standards based or open source protocol adapters e.g. Modbus Distributed Network Protocol DNP Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP IEC61850 etc. object models e.g. Common Information Model CIM and message brokers using standards based messaging protocols e.g. Message Queuing Telemetry Transport MQTT Advanced Messaging Queuing Protocol AMQP etc. that collectively may compress decompress encrypt and translate data between disparate devices use case application logic and other communication nodes field message buses.

It will be understood that the field message bus may have a wide number of use cases including but not limited to Volt VAR Optimization VVO self healing Distributed Energy Resource Management System DERMS microgrid management Photovoltaic PV smoothing transformer monitoring battery storage management etc. The field message bus may be used with various messaging protocols including but not limited to AMQP MQTT Data Distribution Service DDS Java Message Service JMS etc. Moreover the field message bus may be used with various brokers clients such as Red Hat Mosquitto Webmethods MQ Apache VMWare etc. on different Operating Systems OSs e.g. Google Android Microsoft Windows Red Hat Enterprise Linux RHEL Embedded Linux E Linux etc. . Also the field message bus may be used with various wireless and wired communication mediums such as WiFi 3G Long Term Evolution LTE 900 MegaHertz MHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM Low Voltage LV or Medium Mid Voltage MV Power Line Communication Carrier PLC Point to Point Radios Microwave ethernet fiber optics serial etc.

Accordingly where vendors provide local data access from their devices and application logic software support head end adapters and client applications to a common logical interface and provide communication node firmware support for implementing a field message bus the field message bus may seamlessly integrate with existing communication nodes and may facilitate interoperability between various operational technologies. For example the field message bus may enable interoperability and interchangeability at all grid devices connected to a local area network of any communication node and any upstream head end system using any telecommunications backhaul. In particular using a virtual machine along with a standards based or open source API and a bus as described herein may enable modularity of hardware telecommunications and software as well as picking the best in breed technology without having to worry about the integration between them because they all have a common information medium to share data. Moreover in an environment where Distributed Energy Resources DERs may be rapidly adopted and where microgrids may benefit from faster response times and cost effective integration with a wide variety of equipment the field message bus can improve response times reduce costs improve safety and improve reliability.

Referring now to a prior art schematic illustration is provided of a data center message bus at an electric utility data center e.g. a central office of an electric utility . The data center message bus connects head end systems H H which are each connected to one or more electric grid devices E via respective communication networks. For example electric grid device Ecommunicates with head end system Hvia a private carrier network electric grid device Ecommunicates with head end system Hvia a proprietary network and electric grid devices Eand Ecommunicate with head end system Hvia a 3G LTE network . Moreover the electric grid devices Eand Ecommunicate with each other via a 900 MHz ISM network . The electric grid devices E Eare each an element of an electric grid .

The electric grid devices E E and Eand Ecorrespond to e.g. belong to different respective vendors V V which may be different hardware software manufacturers. Moreover communications via the communication networks regarding the electric grid devices E E are not shared understood between the vendors V Vuntil after reaching the data center message bus . Sharing data between the electric grid devices E Emay therefore be slow and inefficient.

Referring now to a prior art schematic illustration is provided of determining a response at an electric utility data center to an event regarding an electric grid device E. For example the event may be a rapid swing in production. In response to the event at the electric grid device E data regarding the electric grid device Eis transmitted to the electric utility data center via at least one communication network e.g. a cellular network . Moreover the electric grid device Emay be a street light a load bank or a DER such as a battery or a PV inverter and may transmit the data to the communication network via an electric grid device E such as a distribution line sensor or a transformer monitoring device e.g. a metrology chipset embedded inside a node . The communication network may include one or more wireless or wired communication networks such as the types of communication networks illustrated in .

The electric utility data center determines a response to the event and then transmits the response to one or more of the electric grid devices E E. In particular the electric utility data center includes at least one head end system H e.g. one or more of the head end systems H Hillustrated in and determines the response after receiving the data at the head end system H e.g. a distribution line sensor head end or a meter head end . In addition to determining the response the electric utility data center updates e.g. using a DMS therein a model of the electric grid responsive to receiving the data . s centralized approach of determining the response at the electric utility data center however is a slow and inefficient way to respond to the event .

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of a field message bus used by communication nodes Cand Ccorresponding to electric grid devices E Eand E E respectively according to various embodiments. In particular the communication nodes Cand Cmay communicate data regarding the electric grid devices E Ebefore or independently of communicating data to the data center message bus at the electric utility data center . Specifically the field message bus allows the communication nodes Cand Cto read understand data that otherwise could only be read by a head end system H at an electric utility data center . For example the field message bus may host data e.g. as a virtual host and communication nodes C may process the data.

The communication nodes Cand Cmay communicate with the electric utility data center via the communication network . The communication network may include one or more wireless or wired communication networks such as fiber Ethernet or WiFi networks or one or more of the types of communication networks illustrated in .

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of determining a response at a communication node C to an event regarding an electric grid device E according to various embodiments. In contrast with determining a centralized response at the electric utility data center as illustrated in the distributed decision making approach illustrated in of determining the response at the communication node Cmay significantly improve decision response times reduce outage times and reduce system operating costs. For example the centralized response illustrated in may take longer than fifteen minutes whereas the distributed response illustrated in may take less than one second. Moreover it will be understood that a distributed approach as described herein may refer to a multi tier connected network in which an application may be at one level tier of the network and inputs may be local to an electric grid device E at a different level tier. In other words hardware software and telecommunications can be at any level tier of the network. Moreover various embodiments described herein may provide interoperability and interchangeability of hardware and software with Virtual LAN VLAN routers connected to a higher tier node s message bus.

The communication node Cmay transmit the response to both the electric utility data center and one or more of the electric grid devices E E e.g. via the field message bus and the communication node C . In other words the response may include the same content data as the response but may have a different destination. Accordingly it will be understood that a network interface of the communication node Cmay be capable of multi cast communications e.g. sending a transmission to both the communication node Cand the head end system H and or to multiple communication nodes C or peer to peer communications. Moreover a DMS of the electric utility data center may update a model of the electric grid responsive to receiving the response . As the distributed decision making approach in occurs closer to the electric grid devices E Eand reduces the burden on the electric utility data center it may significantly improve decision response times reduce outage times and reduce system operating costs.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of a communication node C according to various embodiments. The communication node C may be one of the communication nodes Cand Cof and may include a processor including a core processor and one or more application processors a network interface and a memory . The network interface is configured to provide a communications interface with a field area network which includes one or more field message buses one or more local area networks and or one or more wide area networks which may communicate with OT systems and or other communication nodes C . For example the network interface may be configured to provide communications with an electric grid device E and or a field message bus . The network interface may be for wired and or wireless communications. Moreover the processor may be configured to control a virtual machine in the communication node C where the virtual machine may be configured to provide a message broker that is configured to interface with the field message bus and or another communication node C.

The processor of the communication node C may be coupled to the network interface . The processor may be configured to communicate with electric grid devices E other communication nodes C and or the electric utility data center via the network interface . For example the network interface may include one or more wireless interfaces e.g. 3G LTE other cellular WiFi Global Positioning System GPS interfaces etc. and one or more physical interfaces e.g. Ethernet serial Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. . Moreover the network interface may optionally include one or more PLC interfaces e.g. Low Voltage LV or MV PLC . Additionally the wireless interface s may optionally include 900 MHz radio.

Referring still to the memory may be coupled to the processor and may include a core memory and an application memory . The memory may also store instructions algorithms used by the processor . The application memory may store third party applications such as security analytics applications. It will be understood that the capability to add various third party applications to the application memory can provide flexibility to the communication node C.

Moreover the communication node C may optionally include a metrology chip that can obtain voltage current data every second. Accordingly such voltage current data can be processed locally in the communication node C which may be significantly faster than backhauling the data through a head end system H.

The communication node C may include core hardware components such as a power supply 20 MHz or higher speed processor s and 1 Megabyte MB or more of RAM. The communication node C may also have a memory storage such as 1 MB or more of storage e.g. Secure Digital SD MultiMediaCard MMC other Flash etc. . Such modest core hardware components in contrast with those of servers super computers etc. demonstrate the considerable capabilities of a distributed intelligence smart grid system to solve complex optimization problems. In other words because the operations computing described herein can be distributed and shared across multiple processors and devices the core hardware components may be modest. For example in some embodiments communication node C functionality may be provided by a virtual machine on any end device rather than just a separate router box with telecommunications .

The communication node C may include core applications such as CPU memory OS management applications port device drivers router Internet Protocol IP services network management services basic protocol support SCADA custom API applications and device security services. Moreover the communication node C may include virtual applications such as a virtual machine e.g. a Java Virtual Machine message bus es message broker s protocol adapters mini SCADA open standards API and third party applications e.g. security analytics applications . The core applications may use such software as C Linux and the virtual applications may use such software as Java Linux. Additionally the virtual applications may use the application memory and the application processor s .

Because the communication node C of is interoperable with other communication nodes C and includes a modular hardware software platform the use of the communication nodes C allows a smart electric grid e.g. the grid to be deployed gradually as economics and technology allow. For example a communication node C can be added when a meter is added to the grid or when a street light is added to the grid .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates details of an example processor and memory of a communication node C that may be used in accordance with various embodiments. The processor communicates with the memory via an address data bus . The processor may be for example a commercially available or custom microprocessor. Moreover it will be understood that the processor may include multiple processors. The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement various functions of a communication node C as described herein. The memory may include but is not limited to the following types of devices cache ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash Static RAM SRAM and Dynamic RAM DRAM .

As shown in the memory may hold various categories of software and data such as an operating system . The operating system controls operations of a communication node C. In particular the operating system may manage the resources of the communication node C and may coordinate execution of various programs by the processor .

Referring again to an electric grid device E may be for example an electric utility meter a transformer a light e.g. a street light an electric grid control device an electric grid protection device a line sensor a weather sensor an Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMI device an analog or digital sensor connected to an electric utility asset an electric generator an electric turbine an electric boiler an electric vehicle a home appliance a battery storage device a capacitor device a solar power device a smart generation device an intelligent switching device an emission monitoring device or a voltage regulator. It will be understood that an electric grid device E described herein shall refer to any one of the electric grid devices E Edescribed herein. Moreover it will be understood that more than five electric grid devices E may be included in an electric grid . For example dozens hundreds thousands or more electric grid devices E may be included in the electric grid .

Similarly a communication node C shall refer to any one of the communication nodes Cand Cdescribed herein and dozens hundreds thousands or more communication nodes C may be included. In particular it will be understood that a communication node C may communicate with a plurality of other communication nodes C via one or more field message buses described herein. Additionally a head end system H shall refer to any one of the head end systems H Hdescribed herein and dozens hundreds thousands or more head end systems H may be included. Furthermore a vendor V shall refer to any one of the vendors V Vdescribed herein and dozens hundreds thousands or more vendors V may be included.

Referring now to operations of processing the data may include determining at the communication node C a response decision e.g. a response with respect to the electric grid device E that provides data or with respect to another electric grid device E Block B . For example it will be understood that the response decision may provide a decision that can be used implemented by an electric grid device Ehaving an event and or by another electric grid device E such as an electric grid device E or an electric grid device Ethat provides the data regarding the event . Moreover transmitting the filtered portion of the data may include transmitting the response decision and or a status to the electric utility head end system H Block B .

Referring now to operations of receiving data may include receiving Application Layer e.g. Layer 7 data Block C . Moreover operations of processing the data may include reading the Application Layer data at the communication node C Block C . Although the Application Layer data is described herein as one example the inventive entity appreciates that operations of processing the data may include reading any logical layer data at the communication node C. For example operations of processing the data may include reading data of any of Layers 3 7 of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model at the communication node C. As another example operations of processing the data may include reading Application Layer data of the Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP model at the communication node C.

Referring now to operations of transmitting the filtered portion of the data received from the electric grid device E may include transmitting at least one parameter in the data to the electric utility head end system H Block D . It will be understood that the particular electric grid device parameter s may depend on a specific use case. For example the parameter may include an electric grid parameter e.g. a voltage or a current a networking parameter e.g. a data transfer rate a customer parameter e.g. a willingness to participate in a program or service a security parameter e.g. a key a device identification ID parameter a time stamp parameter or an event notification e.g. an alarm alert .

Referring now to the communication node C may be a first communication node Ccorresponding to a first electric grid device E. Moreover operations of the communication node Cmay include transmitting the filtered portion of the data to a second communication node Ccorresponding to a second electric grid device E via a field message bus Block .

Referring now to the communication node C may be a first communication node Ccorresponding to a first electric grid device E. Moreover operations of the communication node C may include receiving filtered translated compressed and or encrypted data from a second communication node Ccorresponding to a second electric grid device E via a field message bus Block F . For example encrypted data may be communicated between communication nodes C using a field message bus of a field area network. Accordingly reading data from the field message bus may require a key to decrypt the data. Referring still to it will be understood that the first and second communication nodes Cand Cmay correspond to different first and second vendors V respectively. Accordingly various operations described herein may be performed between devices nodes of different vendors V. Additionally or alternatively various operations described herein may be performed between devices nodes of the same vendor V. For example in some embodiments the first and second communication nodes Cand Cmay correspond to the same vendor V.

In some embodiments the virtual machine described with respect to Block of may provide virtual telemetry that translates and shares the data . Without such virtual telemetry the communication node C would send the data to a head end system H which would be a slower and encrypted process. Accordingly the virtual machine provides a way to run the virtual telemetry and to interoperate between devices e.g. between different communication nodes C .

Referring now to the communication node C may be a first communication node Cand the field message bus may interface with a second communication node C. Moreover the first and second communication nodes Cand Cmay be respective peer communication nodes that have the field message bus therebetween. Accordingly transmitting receiving the data may include transmitting receiving the data corresponding to an electric grid device E to from a peer communication node via the field message bus Block B . The peer communication nodes can communicate using the field message bus even if the peer communication nodes use different carriers e.g. different cellular carriers because the field message bus allows peer to peer communications between carriers. In some embodiments the first and second communication nodes Cand Cmay correspond to different first and second vendors V respectively. Moreover in some embodiments the first and second communication nodes Cand Cmay have a parent child hierarchical arrangement with the field message bus between the first and second communication nodes Cand C. Additionally or alternatively communications between the first and second communication nodes Cand Cmay use a plurality of communication methods. For example the first communication node Cmay send data to the second communication node Cvia a first communication method e.g. one of WiFi cellular PLC etc. and receive data from the second communication node Cvia a second communication method e.g. a different one of WiFi cellular PLC etc. .

Referring now to operations of the communication node C may include using the protocol of the message broker and or a message client to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus Block . Moreover it will be understood that the translator unit can be embedded in an electric grid device E a hardware interface of a communication node C a central processing unit or a virtual machine. For example an electric grid device E having such a translator unit therein may therefore publish data directly to the field message bus e.g. without using a communication node C to publish data . It will also be understood that the device protocol e.g. an end point protocol such as DNP Modbus SNMP etc. may be on an electric grid device E the communication node C and or a head end system H.

Referring now to operations of the communication node C may include using the protocol of the message broker to interface with a standards based or open source API based application in the communication node C Block D .

Referring now to operations of the communication node C may include using the protocol of the message broker to interface with a plurality of field message buses Block E . In other words the message bus may be one among a plurality of field message buses with which the communication node C may interface.

Referring now to operations of the communication node C may include isolating an application processing unit e.g. the application processor of the communication node C from a central processing unit e.g. the core processor of the communication node C using the virtual machine Block . For example the virtual machine may provide a virtual firewall between the application processor and the core processor thus increasing security. As a result of the virtual firewall a particular communication node C may be quarantined from the field message bus without losing the entire network of communication nodes C. For example the field message bus can compress and provide secure access to a field area network that does not exist for a public cellular carrier or heterogeneous public private network in which a firewall boundary only exists at a data center and not at a substation or close to electric grid devices E. This distributed architecture employing the field message bus may extend the boundary of a corporate firewall to a substation that has a virtual LAN and it can do this on any telecom WAN medium e.g. including wired or wireless mediums . Moreover it will be understood that the operations illustrated in Block may be performed before and or after the operations illustrated in Block . Additionally or alternatively it will be understood that the virtual machine may operate using the application processor s or a partition of the central processing unit of the communication node C.

The FAN may provide communications between the communication nodes C Cvia a field message bus . Moreover multiple tiers of communication nodes C may be provided. For example the communication nodes C Cmay be lowest tier edge communication nodes whereas a higher tier communication node Cmay be between the communication nodes C Cand the corporate private network which is at the electric utility data center . As an example the communication nodes C Cmay be feeder communication nodes C whereas the higher tier communication node Cmay be at a substation. In some embodiments the higher tier communication node Cmay manage the communication nodes C C. Additionally or alternatively another communication node C may manage the higher tier communication node C. In other words the other communication node C may be in an even higher tier level of hierarchy than the higher tier communication node Cand may communicate with the higher tier communication node Cusing peer to peer communications. Accordingly referring still to it will be understood that additional tiers may be provided as well as that additional peer communication nodes C may be included in the tiers.

The FAN may provide communications between the communication node Cand the higher tier communication node Cvia a field message bus and may provide communications between the communication node Cand the higher tier communication node Cvia a field message bus . It will be understood that the block diagram of a communication node C in may apply to the higher tier communication node C as well as the communication nodes C C.

The WAN may include a communication network that communicates with the corporate private network via a network router that is between the communication network and the head end systems H H. In some embodiments the communication network may be a Virtual Private Network VPN . Moreover it will be understood that one or more additional communication networks may be provided between the higher tier communication node Cand the electric utility data center . For example multiple vendors V may have respective communication networks between the higher tier communication node Cand an even higher tier level communication node C.

Referring now to a communication network may provide communications between electric grid devices E Eand communication node C and a communication network may provide communications between electric grid devices E Eand communication node C. The communication networks may each be local area networks. For example the communication networks may be local area networks in the LAN illustrated in . In some embodiments a given communication node C may use a plurality of local area networks. Moreover it will be understood that the communication networks may use a message bus e.g. a local field message bus that continuously pulls data from electric grid devices E and filters out data that is not helpful useful thus increasing data processing speed in comparison with processing all data at an electric utility data center . In other words a local message bus on a communication node C may perform real time data streaming and may do so while using the same or different bus for global sharing between other communication nodes that also are running a local message bus.

A field message bus may provide communications between the communication node Cand communication network . Moreover a field message bus may provide communications between the communication node Cand the communication network . Also field message buses may provide communications between the communication network and a higher tier communication node Cand a virtual gateway VGW at the electric utility data center respectively.

It will be understood that the communication network may provide a field area network. Multiple vendors V may be connected to the same communication network which may be a cellular network or a WiFi network among other wireless or wired networks. Additionally the communication network may communicate Layer 7 data that can be read understood by the communication nodes C.

The electric utility data center may include a communication network . For example the communication network at the electric utility data center may include a corporate private network such as the corporate private network illustrated in .

Referring now to a block diagram of a field message bus data model is illustrated according to various embodiments. The field message bus data model may include vendor V components as well as electric utility components and standards based or open source components. For example illustrates that a vendor V s end device OT system may include a meter an IED a sensor an inverter and or a DMS. Moreover a vendor V s application logic IT system may include VVO Fault Detection Isolation and Recovery Restoration FDIR DER security key management Mgnt and or security.

Referring still to an electric utility system message bus may include provide a system contextualized message. Moreover the electric utility s local data access adapters may include DNP Modbus or IEC61850 adapters or C12 among others. Additionally the field message bus data model illustrated in may include data compression and encryption.

The field message bus data model illustrated in may also include various standards based or open source components. For example a standards based or open source lightweight streaming broker may include MQTT AMQP Data Distribution Service DDS and or other messaging protocols. An electric utility field message bus may include translated message syntax. A standards based or open source common model Extract Transform and Load ETL mapping may include provide semantic abstraction. A standards based or open source agnostic publish subscribe protocol may include MQTT DDS AMQP Datagram Transport Layer Security DTLS and or other messaging protocols. Moreover a standards based or open source local data access open API may be a standards based protocol API.

Referring now to another example of a block diagram of a field message bus data model is illustrated according to various embodiments. The field message bus data model may include vendor V components as well as electric utility components and standards based or open source components. For example illustrates that a vendor V s end device OT system may include a PLC meter Power Quality PQ Metrology a 3G 4G router a Capacitor Cap Bank Controller an IP enabled meter a PV battery inverter a PI system and or a DMS. Moreover a vendor V s application logic IT system may include an Undervoltage UV Overvoltage OV Application App a transformer PQ alarm security key management and or solar smoothing.

Referring still to an electric utility s message bus may include provide a system translated and contextualized message. Moreover the electric utility s local data access adapters may include DNP Modbus Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP protocol adapters among others. Additionally the field message bus data model illustrated in may include data compression and encryption.

The field message bus data model illustrated in may also include various standards based or open source components. For example a standards based or open source lightweight streaming broker may include MQTT DDS and or AMQP. Moreover a standards based or open source local data access open API may include a standards based protocol API.

Referring now to a schematic diagram illustrates how a field message bus helps converge IT telecommunications Telecom activities and OT according to various embodiments. For example IT may include analytics such as one or more use case applications App s in a communication node C. The use case application s may subscribe to data from an open API message bus e.g. the field message bus and or may publish data to the open API message bus.

Referring still to OT may include translation components such as a head end DNP Modbus and or SNMP and such translation components may subscribe to data from the open API message bus and or may publish data to the open API message bus. Moreover data between the translation components and the open API message bus may be encrypted and or compressed as illustrated in . Additionally OT may include OT system or device components such as a DMS sandbox Pi system line sensor intelligent switch capacitor Cap bank smart meter battery PV inverter s transformer and or telecommunication Telco router. For example the DMS sandbox and Pi system may be located at a data center and may communicate with the open API message bus via a head end system H whereas the line sensor intelligent switch capacitor Cap bank smart meter battery PV inverter s transformer and telecommunication Telco router may be electric grid devices E that communicate with the open API message bus via one or more communication nodes C. The communication node s C may communicate with the open API message bus using translation messaging protocols such as those illustrated in .

Referring now to a schematic diagram illustrates additional details of the schematic diagram illustrated in according to various embodiments. Moreover illustrates a comparison between a response time of a field message bus less than about 500 milliseconds ms and a corporate enterprise bus about 5 seconds . Additionally it will be understood that MSG BUSES 1 3 in may be three different field message buses that provide pub sub with analytics and or translation. It will also be understood that the Comm Nodes illustrated in may be communication nodes C and that the OT system device components illustrated in as being communicatively coupled to the communication nodes C may be electric grid devices E. Furthermore the XFMR illustrated in may be a transformer and the cellular networks may include LTE Evolution Data Optimized EVDO carrier and High Speed Packet Access HSPA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM carrier networks.

Accordingly in view of various embodiments described herein a field message bus e.g. a message bus in the field rather than within an electric utility data center may enable interoperability between utility grid assets e.g. electric grid devices E . For example a communication node C may be on attached to an electric utility pole. By using the field message bus sharing and processing of data will occur closer to the utility grid assets rather than at the electric utility data center . The field message bus and its supporting logic may reside on the communication node C s application processing unit s e.g. application processor s .

In particular a field message bus may be a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API and a virtual machine may be inside a communication node C and may isolate the communication node C s application processing unit s from a Central Processing Unit CPU e.g. the core processor . Specifically a message broker may run on the virtual machine that is inside the communication node C.

The message broker may provide a protocol to interface between different message buses and or different communication nodes C. The message broker s protocol also may interface with an adapter e.g. a translator between a device protocol and a message bus and applications e.g. applications based on a standards based or open source API . Accordingly the message broker may enable interoperability between utility grid assets.

Also instead of relying on an electric utility data center to read understand Application Layer e.g. Layer 7 data a communication node C in the field and using a field message bus can read understand such Layer 7 data. Moreover this field message bus technology may seamlessly integrate with existing communication nodes C without disrupting present hardware software functions. For example this field message bus technology may be agnostic to the communication medium e.g. could be used with cellular communications or with PLC communications etc. agnostic to the hardware vendor agnostic to the software language e.g. could be used with Java C Python etc. and agnostic to the Transport Layer.

Moreover it will be understood that the functionality of a communication node C described herein may be incorporated into any device with a processor a memory and a network interface. For example the functionality of a communication node C described herein may be incorporated into a device corresponding to a utility grid e.g. an electric grid device E or a device corresponding to a gas or water grid . Accordingly although a communication node C may perform various operations described herein it will be understood that one or more other devices may perform the operations.

Referring still to the electric grid device Emay transmit the response to both the electric utility data center and one or more of the other electric grid devices E Eand E e.g. via the field message bus . In other words the response illustrated in may include the same content data as the response but may have a different destination. Moreover a DMS of the electric utility data center may update a model of the electric grid responsive to receiving the response . As the distributed decision making approach in occurs at one of the electric grid devices E Eand reduces the burden on the electric utility data center it may significantly improve decision response times reduce outage times and reduce system operating costs.

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of determining a response at an electric grid device E to an event regarding an electric grid device E according to various embodiments. In particular is a modification of that illustrates transmitting the response to the electric grid device Evia a communication node C corresponding to the electric grid device E. In other words illustrates that the electric grid device Emay transmit the response to both the electric utility data center and one or more of the other electric grid devices E Eand E e.g. via the field message bus and the communication node C .

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of determining a response at a communication node C to an event regarding an electric grid device E according to various embodiments. In particular is a modification of that illustrates determining the response at the communication node C instead of at the electric grid device E and transmitting the response from the communication node C to the electric grid device E without using an intervening communication node C between the electric grid device Eand the transmitting communication node C illustrated in . In other words illustrates that the communication node C may directly transmit the response to both the electric utility data center and one or more of the other electric grid devices E Eand E e.g. via the field message bus .

Referring now to operations of the first device may include receiving data e.g. the data from a second device e.g. the electric grid device E via a network interface Block . It will be understood that the second device may correspond to the same gas water or electric grid as the first device. Moreover the network interface may include the functionality components of the network interface illustrated in . For example the network interface may include a local area network interface or a wide area network interface.

Referring still to the operations may also include processing the data from the second device at the first device Block . Additionally the operations may include transmitting a filtered portion of the data to a data center e.g. the electric utility data center including an utility head end system H corresponding to the gas water or electric grid after processing the data at the first device Block . Alternatively in some embodiments the operations of Block may include transmitting the filtered portion of the data to a third device in the field instead of to an utility head end system H of a data center. In particular in some embodiments the functionality of the head end system H may be incorporated into the third device that is in the field thus reducing the need for an utility head end system H at a data center.

Referring now to operations of processing the data may include determining at the first device a response decision e.g. a response with respect to the data received from the second device. Block B . For example it will be understood that the response decision may provide a decision that can be used implemented by the second device and or by another device. As an example the response decision may be a response to an event e.g. an event at the second device or at a third device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid. Moreover transmitting the filtered portion of the data may include transmitting the response decision and or a status to the electric utility head end system H Block B .

Referring now to operations of receiving data may include receiving Application Layer e.g. Layer 7 data Block C . Moreover operations of processing the data may include reading the Application Layer data at the first device Block C .

Referring now to operations of the first device may include transmitting the filtered portion of the data and or the response decision to a third device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid via a field message bus Block .

Moreover it will be understood that the filtered portion of the data illustrated in Blocks and may include at least one electric grid parameter water grid parameter gas grid parameter networking parameter customer parameter security parameter device identification parameter or time stamp parameter. In some embodiments the first device may be an electric grid device a water grid device a gas grid device a telecommunications system device a server or a home appliance. Additionally or alternatively the first and second devices may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively.

In some embodiments the utility head end system H may be configured to provide communications via a data center message bus e.g. the data center message bus . Moreover operations of the first device may include transmitting the filtered portion of the data to a third device corresponding to the gas water or electric grid via a field message bus that is configured to provide communications independently of the data center message bus.

Referring now to operations of the first device may include using a message broker and or message client including an embedded protocol that is standardized with respect to a field message bus that includes a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API at the first device Block . Additionally operations of the first device may include transmitting or receiving data corresponding to a second device that corresponds to the gas water or electric grid via the field message bus Block . The first device may be spaced apart from a data center e.g. an electric utility data center that includes an utility head end system H. Moreover the field message bus may be configured to provide communications independently of a data center message bus e.g. the data center message bus of the utility head end system H.

Referring now to operations of the first device may include using the embedded protocol of the message broker and or the message client to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus Block .

Referring now to operations of the first device may include using the embedded protocol of the message broker and or the message client to interface with a standards based or open source API based application in the first device Block C .

In some embodiments operations of the first device indicated with respect to may include using the embedded protocol of the message broker and or the message client to interface with a plurality of field message buses e.g. one or more field message buses in addition to the field message bus . Moreover it will be understood that the first and second devices indicated with respect to may correspond to different first and second vendors respectively.

In some embodiments a first device indicated with respect to may include a network interface that is configured to provide communications with a second device via a field message bus that includes a standards based or open source Application Programming Interface API . For example the network interface may include the functionality components of the network interface illustrated in . As an example the network interface may include a local area network interface or a wide area network interface configured to provide communications with the second device. In some embodiments the network interface may be configured to provide communications with a plurality of devices corresponding to the gas water or electric grid.

In some embodiments the network interface may be configured to receive data from the second device via the network interface. Moreover the processor may be configured to process the data from the second device at the first device and to control transmission of a filtered portion of the data to the utility head end system H after processing the data at the first device. The filtered portion of the data received from the second device may include for example at least one electric grid parameter water grid parameter gas grid parameter networking parameter customer parameter security parameter device identification parameter or time stamp parameter.

The first device may also include a processor that is configured to control a message broker and or message client in the first device. For example the processor may include the functionality components of the processor illustrated in . Moreover the message broker and or message client may include an embedded protocol that is standardized with respect to the field message bus . In some embodiments the embedded protocol of the message broker and or message client may be configured to interface with a translator unit that is between a device protocol and the field message bus . Additionally or alternatively the embedded protocol of the message broker and or message client may be configured to interface with a plurality of field message buses.

The first device and or the field message bus may be spaced apart from a data center e.g. an electric utility data center that includes an utility head end system H. Moreover the field message bus may be configured to provide communications independently of a data center message bus e.g. the data center message bus of the utility head end system H.

In some embodiments a first device indicated with respect to may be an electric utility meter a transformer a light an electric grid control device an electric grid protection device a line sensor a weather sensor an Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMI device an analog or digital sensor connected to an electric utility asset an electric generator an electric turbine an electric boiler an electric vehicle an intelligent switching device a home appliance a battery storage device a capacitor device a solar power device a smart generation device an emission monitoring device a water heater a thermostat a server or a voltage regulator.

Referring now to an illustration is provided of a data modeling and analytics framework according to various embodiments. For example illustrates a security application that may be uniform across an entire enterprise. Moreover illustrates a common semantic model for the entire enterprise.

Protocols described according to various embodiments herein may be brokerless or may have a broker. A protocol described herein may provide mediation of data as well as translation and contextualization. For example a protocol described herein may have a physical broker that manages data routing and access to the field message bus . The broker may decide when devices nodes can publish and subscribe to data messages. As an example the broker may let messages in and out at a given time interval e.g. every second .

Alternatively a protocol described herein may be brokerless i.e. may have no broker at all . A brokerless protocol may be asynchronous and thus may allow devices nodes to constantly publish and subscribe to data messages instead of using a schedule. Accordingly as a particular device node publishes subscribes it can continue to send messages until the messages go through which may improve system reliability robustness speed and scalability.

For example a brokerless protocol may inherently share data through a semantic model. Specifically a brokerless protocol may use Quality of Service QoS with a defined semantic model to share data. As an example a brokerless protocol may use QoS as an input to define prioritization of traffic e.g. to define high priority traffic on a message bus. In other words the protocol may use QoS to decide which traffic has priority which may improve reliability of the network. Data Distribution Service DDS is one example of a brokerless protocol. Moreover QoS can be used to manage security. For example QoS may align with cyber security applications that can use Quality of Trust QoT to impede abnormal or untrusted traffic from publishing or subscribing to the message bus.

In some embodiments the devices nodes described herein may communicate using both a brokered protocol and a brokerless protocol. For example a protocol with a broker can communicate with a protocol that is brokerless. In some embodiments the same device node could use both a broker protocol and a brokerless protocol. Moreover in some embodiments different devices within the same network system could communicate using different ones of a broker protocol and a brokerless protocol respectively.

As an example of using both a brokered protocol and a brokerless protocol a device node that uses multiple message buses in a system may run Message Queuing Telemetry Transport MQTT which is a broker protocol whereas a field area network which shares data seamlessly across whole system in the system may use a brokerless protocol. In other words a local area network in the system may be brokered whereas a field area network in the system may be brokerless. Moreover multiple buses may run simultaneously with multiple different protocols that may be brokered or brokerless.

Regardless of whether a protocol is brokered or brokerless the protocol may manage translation contextualization and routing via publishing and subscribing to data topics that are defined in a semantic model. In particular a common semantic model may provide for contextualizing and seamlessly routing the data between publishers and subscribers on a message bus thus improving the interchangeability of hardware and software. Moreover a brokerless protocol may automatically discover data topics via the common semantic model .

According to various embodiments translation and semantic contextualization may be performed in a field area network in end devices and or in customer premise networks e.g. local area networks of customers instead of performing all translation and semantic contextualization between an enterprise application and head end systems in a data center. Contextualization may refer to making sense of translated data. Moreover according to various embodiments herein contextualization refers to contextualizing data before it goes to a data center e.g. the electric utility data center . In other words contextualization may be provided managed by a protocol outside of a data center according to various embodiments herein. For example a brokerless protocol outside of a data center may provide manage the contextualization. Specifically the protocol may add context to a message by adding schema such as an Extensible Markup Language XML Schema Definition XSD file a Resource Description Framework RDF file or an XML file. In particular the protocol may add the schema to a virtual embedded environment that is hosting the message bus protocol.

Various embodiments described herein may provide an enterprise wide cybersecurity platform . For example in some embodiments a security application may run on top of a message bus API. Moreover the security application may sit at multiple tiers of the enterprise rather than only at a data center. The security application may be on a communication node C a customer device or any virtual environment. In particular instead of relying on different types of security in an enterprise the security application may be on any all devices nodes in the enterprise thus providing a uniform security application throughout the enterprise.

A semantic model may be a conceptual data model that may be defined by a particular utility company or by the broader utility industry. For example a semantic model may provide a common definition of how different meters interpret the meaning of data. In other words a semantic model may provide a common definition of how different meters measure voltage and power and set alarms among other meter functions. As an example a semantic model may determine whether the meters measure voltage with one decimal point or two decimal points among other decisions regarding how the meters interpret the meaning of data. According to various embodiments described herein a common semantic model may be used as an input to a message bus e.g. a field message bus .

In particular the common semantic model which may be one level up from schema that sits locally on every virtual environment of a field area network may be provided throughout an entire system enterprise. In other words the common semantic model may be provided both before and after the message bus.

Moreover the common semantic model may extensible such that it may be shared across the entire system enterprise. In some embodiments the common semantic model may be dynamically extensible which means that extension of the common semantic model to a new element aspect of the system enterprise should not break the system enterprise. Furthermore in some embodiments the system enterprise may validate the common semantic model by checking testing the common semantic model for consistency.

In some embodiments a field message bus may provide failover compression and persistence e.g. log data for auditing for data outside of a data center. For example brokerless protocols may be placed in enterprise areas needing failover. The brokerless protocols may provide a distribution of different machines e.g. devices or nodes copying the same data. Accordingly if one machine fails the others should still have the data thus providing redundancy of information on the field message bus outside of the data center.

In some embodiments a field message bus may enable remote firmware upgrades and can provide revision control. In other words the field message bus may provide common version control common revisions for applications firmware etc. Moreover the common revisions can be performed remotely and sent to all devices nodes in an enterprise.

Some embodiments may allow interrogation of other devices to discover capabilities and to configure the device s or database s collecting data. For example a communications node C adjacent a meter may interrogate i.e. ask the meter may discover e.g. determine what the meter is capable of and then may feed the information to a semantic model which may then send the information to the entire network such that the entire network sees the capabilities. Moreover the database may be inside a device such as a meter or a communications node C. Accordingly interrogation and discovery of diagnostics may be provided for assets in a customer location e.g. a home a commercial building or an industrial plant a grid a substation and or a power plant. Predictive capabilities may be enabled by data that is securely obtained and understood by a field message bus . For example prediction may include analyzing data to predict capabilities or failures of a device.

Some embodiments may distribute computing across multiple different processors and architecture types such as ARM x86 etc. memory partitions and types such as Flash RAM SD MMC etc multiple operating systems multiple virtual machines and multiple physical nodes. In other words computing may be distributed anywhere and everywhere in a system.

Moreover some embodiments may allow optimization of processor and memory capacity performance on a hosting device or on remote devices. Optimization may provided by sharing resources capacity among multiple devices. For example one communications node C can offload storage or processing to another communications node C. Accordingly in addition to the low processing requirements of various embodiments described herein resources capacity of devices nodes may be optimized allocated e.g. offloaded or split between devices nodes .

Some embodiments may allow dynamic and adaptive programmability of Analog to Digital A D converter chips e.g. Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA chips that are connected to an analog Input Output I O block of a communications node C. In other words some embodiments may use a message bus protocol to change the behavior of an FPGA or any other type of hardware that is convertible reprogrammable . For example the message bus protocol can change the instructions of hardware such as by telling e.g. instructing commanding hardware that was previously functioning as a meter to function as something else. Moreover such changes reprogramming may be performed remotely. Accordingly the message bus protocol can be used to redefine the function of hardware. Specifically a general purpose A D converter module may be provided on a node and may be reprogrammed. A D capability may thus be provided anywhere in a network and can be accessed remotely from anywhere in the network.

According to various embodiments described herein a field message bus rather than a head end system H may obtain data from different protocols and may then provide interoperability using a layer of translation e.g. the common model ETL mapping illustrated in . Moreover the field message bus may operate in the field of a utility system that includes a gas grid an electric grid or a water grid and that may further include a telecommunications network information technology e.g. analytics architecture data management etc. sensors on a generator weather devices environmental devices and or customer devices. Furthermore it will be understood that the utility system may have a distributed architecture including any number e.g. 1 2 3 4 or more of tiers assets nodes devices applications synchronous and asynchronous and message buses respectively.

In the specification various embodiments of the present inventive concepts have been disclosed and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible for the disclosed embodiments without materially departing from the teachings and advantages of the present inventive concepts. The present inventive concepts are defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

