---

title: Cover member, electronic device, and method for wireless charging
abstract: A cover member of an electronic device is provided. The cover member includes covers hingedly connected, wherein each cover includes a power receiving member configured to wirelessly receive power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09559548&OS=09559548&RS=09559548
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09559548
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140822
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Mar. 7 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Ser. No. 10 2014 0027252 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a device and method for receiving wirelessly transmitted power and charging an electronic device.

Wireless charging or contactless charging technologies may be utilized for charging a battery of an electronic device that uses a rechargeable battery. The wireless charging technologies use wireless power transmission and reception. For example without a connection of a separate charging connector between a charger and an electronic device an electronic device may be automatically charged by just putting the electronic device on a charging pad.

For wireless charging a wireless power transmitter and a wireless power receiver are used. The wireless power transmitter wirelessly transmits power using a power transmitting member and the wireless power receiver wirelessly receives power transmitted from the wireless power transmitter using a power receiving member. Generally a coil is used as the power transmitting member and the power receiving member.

The power receiving member may be included in a back side cover or a back side case mounted in the electronic device. When the electronic device is put on the charging pad so that the back side of the electronic device is placed on the charging pad including the wireless power transmitter the electronic device may receive power wirelessly transmitted from the charging pad for charging.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

An electronic device including a power receiving member in only the back side of the electronic device may be wirelessly charged through only the back side of the electronic device. Also when an electronic device lying upside down on a charging pad since a user is inattentive or does not fully understand how to wirelessly charge the electronic device wireless charging may not be executed.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cover member an electronic device and a method for executing wireless charging through an arbitrary side of the two sides of the electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cover member an electronic device and a method for charging simultaneously through both sides of the electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cover member an electronic device and a method for executing wireless charging irrespective of the electronic device being upside down.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a cover member an electronic device and a method for reducing the charging time of the electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a cover member of an electronic device is provided. The cover member includes covers connected to be hinged wherein each cover includes a power receiving member for wirelessly receiving power.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a charger that charges a battery through power for charging generated by at least one of the wireless power receivers the wireless power receivers respectively receiving power through power receiving members respectively included in covers connected to be hinged and generating the power for charging.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a wireless charging method of an electronic device is provided. The wireless charging method includes generating power for charging from power wirelessly received through at least one of the power receiving members respectively included in covers connected to be hinged and charging a battery with the power for charging.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The expressions that may be used in various embodiments of the present disclosure such as comprise may comprise or the like indicates the existence of a disclosed corresponding function operation element or the like and may not limit additional one or more functions operations elements or the like. In the present disclosure the terms such as include or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations elements components or combinations thereof

The expression such as or or the like in various embodiments of the present disclosure include any and all of the combinations of words disclosed together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

The expressions such as first second or the like used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to describe various elements in the various embodiments but may not limit corresponding elements. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish an element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first element may be named a second element. Similarly the second element also may be named the first element.

It should be noted that if it is described that one element is coupled or connected to another element former element may be directly coupled or connected to latter element but they may be coupled or connected together through at least one intervening element. Conversely when one element is directly coupled or directly connected to another element it may be construed that they are coupled or connected together without the intervention of some other element.

The terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are merely used to exemplify a certain embodiment and should not limit various embodiments of the present disclosure. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of for example a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book reader e book reader a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a MPEG 1 audio layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device and a camera.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of above described various devices. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a sensor module . The bus may be a circuit for connecting elements of the electronic device and for transferring communication for example a control message between the elements.

The processor may for example receive a command from other elements for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface the sensor module and the like through the bus may interpret the received command and may execute operation and or data processing based on the interpreted command.

The memory may store a command or data received from the processor or other elements for example the input output interface the display the communication interface the sensor module and the like or may store command or data generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the programming modules may be formed of software firmware or hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and the like used for executing an operation or function implemented in other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access an individual element of the electronic device for control or management.

The middleware may execute as a relay so that the API or the application executes communication with the kernel and may receive and transmit data. Also in association with work requests received from the application the middleware may execute a control for example scheduling or load balancing for n work request through use of for example a method of assigning to at least one of application a priority of use of a system resource of the electronic device for example the bus the processor the memory or the like.

The API is an interface used by the application to control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example an instruction for a file control a window control image processing a character control or the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an SMS MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring an amount of exercise or blood sugar and an environmental information application for example an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity information temperature information and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with exchanging of information between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example an electronic device . The application associated with exchanging of information may include for example a notification relay application for transferring predetermined information to an external electronic device or a device management application for managing an external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring to the external electronic device for example the electronic device notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device for example an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application an environmental information application and the like. Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example an external electronic device for example the electronic device and may provide the notification information to a user. The device management application may manage for example install delete or update for example a function of at least a part of an external electronic device for example the electronic device that communicates with the electronic device for example activating deactivating the external electronic device or a few components or adjusting brightness or resolution of a display an application operated in the external electronic device or a service provided from the external electronic device for example a call service or a message service .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application designated based on properties for example a type of electronic device of an external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP player the application may include an application associated with playback of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application associated with health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of applications received from an application designated for the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device for example the server or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer a command or data input by a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface and the sensor module for example through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide to the processor data associated with a touch of a user input through a touch screen. The input output interface may output for example command or data received through the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface and the sensor module to an input output device for example a speaker or display .

The display may display various pieces of information for example multimedia data text data or the like to a user.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to the network through wireless communication or wired communication and may communicate with an external device. Wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wireless Fidelity Wifi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Wired communication may include at least one of a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external device for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol may be supported in at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

The sensor module may include a cover sensor and a pose sensor . The cover sensor may sense an open and shut state of covers of the electronic device . For example a magnet is installed in one of the covers and a magnetic sensor such as a hall sensor may be used as the cover sensor . The magnet and the magnetic sensor may be installed in corresponding locations where the magnetic sensor is capable of sensing the magnet when the covers are shut. In a case in which the magnet is installed in a cover and the magnetic sensor is installed in the electronic device as the cover sensor the magnetic sensor may sense the magnet when the cover is shut and the magnetic sensor fails to sense the magnet when the cover is open.

A sensor that is capable of sensing a pose such as a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor or the like may be used as the pose sensor . The electronic device may sense whether the electronic device is upside down using the pose sensor .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a controller may include the processor and the memory for storing information required by the processor . The controller which is a central processing unit may control general operations of the electronic device and may execute an operation associated with a wireless charging method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure which will be described below.

Referring to a cover member may include covers and which are connected to be hinged e.g. hingedly connected . The cover may be a front side cover and the cover may be a back side cover. The cover may include a power receiving member and the cover may include a power receiving member . The power receiving members and may wirelessly receive power that is wirelessly transmitted from a power transmitting member not illustrated of a wireless power transmitter not illustrated .

When a magnetic sensor is used as the cover sensor of the electronic device the cover may include a magnet installed in a location that corresponds to the cover sensor . The electronic device may sense an open and shut state of the covers and based on whether the cover sensor senses the magnet of the cover . The electronic device may determine that the covers and are shut when the cover sensor senses the magnet of the cover . The electronic device may determine that the covers and are open when the cover sensor fails to sense the magnet of the cover .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cover may be installed in the back side of the electronic device as the back side cover or case of the electronic device . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a holder may be installed formed in the cover and thus the electronic device may be accepted by the holder.

Referring to power receiving members and and a wireless power receiving unit may be included in the cover member of according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The power receiving members and may be the power receiving members and of respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a charger and a battery may be included in the above described electronic device of .

The wireless power receiving unit may wirelessly receive power through at least one of the power receiving members and so as to generate power for charging. The wireless power receiving unit may include wireless power receivers and and a switch . The wireless power receiver may wirelessly receive power through the power receiving member so as to generate power for charging. The wireless power receiver may wirelessly receive power through the power receiving member so as to generate power for charging. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power receiving unit may be included in one of the covers and . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power receiver may be included in the cover and the wireless power receiver may be included in the cover .

Each of the wireless power receivers and may input power received through a correspondingly connected power receiving member among the power receiving members and . The wireless power receivers and may rectify and execute DC DC converting input power in the same manner as a general wireless power receiver so as to generate power for charging having a predetermined voltage. The wireless power receivers and may communicate with a wireless power transmitter in the same manner as a general wireless power receiver. The power for charging generated by wireless power receivers and may be provided to the charger .

The switch may be connected between the wireless power receiver and the charger . The switch may turn on or off a path between the wireless power receiver and the charger to correspond to an open or shut state of the covers and of which is sensed by the cover sensor of . The switch may be included in one of the covers and or may be included in the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the switch may be turned on or off based on a cover sensing signal of the cover sensor which indicates an open or shut state of the covers and . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the switch may be turned on or off based on a control of the controller of the electronic device that senses an open or shut state of the covers and based on a cover sensing signal of the cover sensor . The switch may be turned on when the covers and are open and may be turned off when the covers and are shut.

When the covers and are open the switch is turned on and thus the path between the wireless power receiver and the charger may be connected. Therefore when the covers and are open the power for charging generated by both the wireless power receivers and may be provided to the charger .

When the covers and are shut the switch is turned off and thus the path between the wireless power receiver and the charger may be blocked. Therefore when the covers and are shut the power for charging generated by the wireless power receiver may be provided to the charger . In this instance the switch is turned off and thus power for charging generated by the wireless power receiver is prevented from being provided to the wireless power receiver .

Accordingly power for charging may be generated from power wirelessly received through at least one of the power receiving members and . Therefore the charger may charge the battery with power for charging generated by at least one of the wireless power receivers and .

Therefore the electronic device may wirelessly charge through the back side of the electronic device when the covers and are shut and may simultaneously execute wireless charging through both sides of the electronic device that is the front side and the back side of the electronic device when the covers and are open.

Referring to a wireless power transmitting pad includes power transmitting members and . The power transmitting members and wirelessly transmit power input from a wireless power transmitter not illustrated . The power transmitting members and may be installed in locations that respectively oppose the power receiving members and of . The wireless power transmitting pad may be implemented by for example the technology disclosed in US patent application publication number US 2013 0099730 A1 MULTI WIRELESS CHARGING APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING THE SAME which was invented by Young Seok Yoon and published on Apr. 25 2013. The US patent application publication number US 2013 0099730 A1 discloses the technology in which a plurality of wireless charging units simultaneously transmit power to a plurality of wireless charging receivers.

When the electronic device of which the covers and are open is put on the wireless power transmitting pad the electronic device may be wirelessly charged through both the front side and the back side of the electronic device . Also when the back side of the electronic device of which the covers and are shut is put on the wireless power transmitting pad the electronic device may be wirelessly charged through the back side of the electronic device .

Referring to an electronic device of which covers and of a cover member are shut lies on a charging pad . The electronic device may be the electronic device of and the covers and of the cover member may be the covers and of the cover member of respectively and the charging pad may be the charging pad of . A magnet installed in the cover may be the magnet of and a cover sensor installed in the electronic device may be the cover sensor of .

As illustrated in the electronic device may execute wireless charging simultaneously through both the front side and the back side of the electronic device when the covers and are open.

Referring to an electronic device of which covers and of a cover member are shut lies on a charging pad . The electronic device may be the electronic device of and the covers and of the cover member may be the covers and of the cover member of respectively and the charging pad may be the charging pad of .

As illustrated in the electronic device may execute wireless charging through the back side of the electronic device when the covers and are shut.

A cover member of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include covers connected to be hinged e.g. hingedly connected and each cover may include a power receiving member for wirelessly receiving power.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a cover member may include a wireless power receiving unit that receives power through at least one power receiving member and generates power for charging.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a wireless power receiving unit may include wireless power receivers that are respectively connected with power receiving members and receive power through a correspondingly connected power receiving member and generate power for charging. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a wireless power receiving unit may be included in one of covers. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of wireless power receivers may be included in a corresponding cover among covers.

A cover member according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may further include a switch that turns on or off a path between a charger and a wireless power receiver connected to a power receiving member included in the front side cover among covers to correspond to an open or shut state of the covers wherein the wireless power receivers are connected to the charger that charges a battery. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a switch may be turned on when covers are open and may be turned off when the covers are shut.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the back side cover of the covers may be installed in an electronic device as the back side cover of the electronic device.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a charger that charges a battery with power for charging generated by at least one of the wireless power receivers that wirelessly receive power respectively through the power receiving members respectively included in covers connected to be hinged and generate power for charging.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may include a cover sensor that senses an open and shut state of covers and a switch that turns on or off a path between a charger and a wireless power receiver connected with a power receiving member included in the front side cover of the covers to correspond to the open or shut state of the covers. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a switch may be turned on when covers are open and may be turned off when the covers are shut.

Referring to power receiving members and and a wireless power receiving unit may be included in the cover member of according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The power receiving members and may be the power receiving members and of respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a charger and a battery may be included in the above described electronic device of .

The wireless power receiving unit may wirelessly receive power through at least one of the power receiving members and so as to generate power for charging. The wireless power receiving unit may include wireless power receivers and switches and and a controller . The wireless power receiver may wirelessly receive power through the power receiving member so as to generate power for charging. The wireless power receiver may wirelessly receive power through the power receiving member so as to generate power for charging. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power receiving unit may be included in one of the covers and . According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power receiver may be included in the cover and the wireless power receiver may be included in the cover .

The wireless power receivers and may input power received through a correspondingly connected power receiving member among the power receiving members and . The wireless power receivers and may rectify and execute DC DC converting input power in the same manner as a general wireless power receiver so as to generate power for charging having a predetermined voltage. The wireless power receivers and may communicate with a wireless power transmitter in the same manner as a general wireless power receiver. The power for charging generated by wireless power receivers and may be provided to the charger .

The switch may be connected between the wireless power receiver and the charger . The switch may turn on or off a path between the wireless power receiver and the charger . The switch may be included in one of the covers and or may be included in the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the switch may be turned on or off by the controller .

The switch may be connected between the wireless power receiver and the charger . The switch may turn on or off a path between the wireless power receiver and the charger . The switch may be included in one of the covers and or may be included in the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the switch may be turned on or off by the controller .

The controller may turn on or off the switches and based on an open or shut state of the covers and and an overturn state of the electronic device so as to control on or off of the switches and . The controller may be included in one of the covers and or may be included in the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may input a cover sensing signal of the cover sensor indicating an open or shut state of the covers and and a pose sensing signal of the pose sensor indicating whether the electronic device is upside down. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller of the electronic device may be used or a separate controller may be embodied as the controller .

The controller may turn on all of the switches and when the covers and are open. Therefore the paths between the charger and the wireless power receivers and are connected and thus power for charging generated by both the wireless power receivers and may be provided to the charger .

The controller may turn the switch on and turn the switch off when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is upside down. Accordingly the path between the wireless power receiver and the charger may be connected and the path between the wireless power receiver and the charger may be blocked. Therefore when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is upside down the power for charging generated by the wireless power receiver may be provided to the charger . In this instance the switch is turned off and thus power for charging generated by the wireless power receiver is prevented from being provided to the wireless power receiver .

The controller may turn the switch off and turn the switch on when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is not overturned. Accordingly the path between the wireless power receiver and the charger may be connected and the path between the wireless power receiver and the charger may be blocked. Therefore when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is not overturned the power for charging generated by the wireless power receiver may be provided to the charger . In this instance the switch is turned off and thus power for charging generated by the wireless power receiver is prevented from being provided to the wireless power receiver .

Accordingly power for charging may be generated from power wirelessly received through at least one of the power receiving members and . Therefore the charger may charge the battery with power for charging generated by at least one of the wireless power receivers and .

Therefore the electronic device may execute wireless charging through the back side of the electronic device as described with reference to when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is not overturned. The electronic device may execute wireless charging through the front side of the electronic device as described in the followings when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is upside down. The electronic device may execute wireless charging simultaneously through both the front side and the back side of the electronic device when the covers and are open as described with reference to .

A cover member according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a first switch that turns on or off a path between a charger and a wireless power receiver connected to a power receiving member included in the front side cover among the covers a second switch that turns on or off a path between the charger and a wireless power receiver connected to a power receiving member included in the back side cover among the covers and a controller that controls turn on or off of the first switch and the second switch based on an open or shut state of the covers and an overturn state of the electronic device wherein the wireless power receivers are connected to the charger that charges a battery.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include a first switch that turns on or off a path between a charger and a wireless power receiver connected to a power receiving member included in the front side cover among the covers a second switch that turns on or off a path between the charger and a wireless power receiver connected to a power receiving member included in the back side cover among the covers a cover sensor that senses an open and shut state of the covers a pose sensor that senses whether the electronic device is upside down and a controller that controls turn on or off of the first switch and the second switch based on an open or shut state of the covers and an overturn state of the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a controller may turn on both a first switch and a second switch when covers are open and may turn the first switch on and turn the second switch off when the covers are shut and an electronic device is upside down and may turn the first switch off and turn the second switch on when the covers are shut and the electronic device is not overturned.

Referring to the controller may determine whether the covers and are open through the cover sensor in operation . In operation the controller may turn on both of the switches and when the covers and are open. Accordingly charging may be executed through both sides of the electronic device .

When it is determined that the covers and are shut in operation the controller may determine whether the electronic device is upside down e.g. overturned through the pose sensor in operation . When it is determined that the electronic device is overturned e.g. upside down in operation the controller may turn the switch on and turn the switch off in operation . Accordingly charging may be executed through the front side of the electronic device .

When it is determined that the electronic device is not overturned in operation the controller may turn the switch off and turn the switch on in operation . Accordingly charging may be executed through the back side of the electronic device .

Referring to an electronic device of which covers and of a cover member are shut lies on a charging pad . The electronic device may be the electronic device of and the covers and of the cover member may be the covers and of the cover member of respectively and the charging pad may be the charging pad of .

As illustrated in the electronic device may execute wireless charging through the front side of the electronic device when the covers and are shut and the electronic device is upside down.

A wireless charging method of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include generating power for charging through power wirelessly received through at least one of power receiving members respectively included in covers connected to be hinged and charging a battery with power for charging.

Generating the power for charging may include sensing an open or shut state of the covers and generating power for charging using at least one power receiving member that corresponds to an open or shut state of the covers from among the power receiving members.

Generating power for charging using the power receiving member may include generating power for charging from power wirelessly received through all of the power receiving members when the covers are open and generating power for charging from power wirelessly received through a power receiving member included in a cover used as the back side cover among the covers when the covers are shut.

Generating the power for charging may include sensing an open or shut state of the covers sensing whether the electronic device is upside down and generating power for charging using at least one power receiving member that corresponds to an open or shut state of the covers and the overturn state of the electronic device from among the power receiving members.

Generating power for charging using the power receiving member may include generating power for charging using all of the power receiving members when the covers are open generating power for charging using a power receiving member included in a cover used as the front side cover among the covers when the covers are shut and the electronic device is upside down and generating power for charging using a power receiving member included in a cover used as the back side cover among the covers when the covers are shut and the electronic device is not overturned.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure wireless charging may be executed through arbitrary one or both of the front side and the back side of the electronic device. Therefore wireless charging may be executed irrespective of the electric device being upside down. When charging is executed simultaneously through both sides of the electronic device a charging time may be reduced when compared to charging through one side of the electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include at least one processor a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor .

The processor may include one or more Application Processors AP or one or more Communication Processors CP . The processor may be for example the processor of . Although it is illustrated that the AP and the CP are included in the processor in the AP and the CP may be included in different IC packages. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP and the CP may be included in a single IC package.

The AP may run an operation system or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP and may execute data processing and operation associated with various data including multimedia data. The AP may be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not illustrated .

The CP may manage a data link in communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices connected over a network and may convert a communication protocol. The CP may be embodied as for example a SoC. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the CP may execute at least a portion of a multimedia controlling function. The CP may identify and authenticate the electronic device in a communication network using a Subscriber Identification Module for example a SIM card . Further the CP may provide a user with services such as a voice call service a video call service a text message service a packet data service and the like.

Also the CP may control data transmission and reception of the communication module . Although the elements such as the CP the power management module or the memory are illustrated as separate elements the AP may be embodied to include at least a few of the described elements for example the CP .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the CP may load a command or data received from at least one of non volatile memory and other elements connected to each entity in a volatile memory and may process the same. Also the AP or the CP may store in a non volatile memory data that may be received from or generated by at least one of other element.

The SIM card may be a card that is implemented as a subscriber identifying module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a predetermined location of the electronic device . The SIM card may include a unique identification information such as an Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information such as International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal e.g. embedded memory and an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory of . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the embedded memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an eXtreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

Although not illustrated the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard disk drive.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be included in for example the communication interface of . The wireless communication module may include for example Wi Fi BlueTooth BT a Global Positioning System GPS or a Near Field Communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using a wireless frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface for example a LAN card a modem or the like for connecting the electronic device to a network for example Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless Area Network WAN a communication network a cellular network a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and the like .

The RF module may process transmission and reception of a voice or data signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like although not illustrated. Also the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and receiving an electromagnetic wave in a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductive substance a conductive wire or the like.

The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green and Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K an Ultra Violet UV sensor L and an InfraRed IR sensor not illustrated . The sensor module measures a physical quantity or senses an operation state of an electronic device so as to convert the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an olfactory sensor E nose sensor not illustrated an ElectroMyoGraphy sensor EMG sensor not illustrated an ElectroEncephaloGram sensor EEG not illustrated an ElectroCardioGram sensor ECG not illustrated a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The input module may be included in for example the input output interface of . The touch panel may recognize a touch input based on for example at least one of a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an acoustic wave scheme. Also the touch panel may further include a controller not illustrated . The capacitive scheme may recognize physical contact in addition to proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer function. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be embodied for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button. Also for example an optical key a key pad or a touch key may be included. The ultrasonic input device is a device that may input data through an input instrument that generates an ultrasonic signal so that the electronic device determines data by sensing a sound wave using a microphone for example the microphone and thereby may be capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may use a communication module to receive a user input from an external device connected thereto for example a network a computer or a server .

The display may include a panel a hologram or a projector . The display may be for example the display of . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be formed to be a single module with the touch panel . The hologram may show a three dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector shows an image on an external screen using projection of light. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB Optical communication or D subminiature D sub . The communication module may be included in for example the communication interface of . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC not illustrated or Infrared Data Association IrDA not illustrated .

The audio module may bilaterally convert sound and an electronic signal. The audio module may be included in for example the input output interface of . The audio module may process for example sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone a microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device for capturing an image or a video and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more image sensors for example a front side sensor or a back side sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated or a flash not illustrated for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in for example an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent introduction of over voltage or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme an electromagnetic scheme and the like may be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store electricity and supply power. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a predetermined state of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device for example the AP such as a boot up state a message state a charging state or the like. The motor may convert an electric signal into mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing device for example a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data associated with the standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB a media flow or the like.

The described elements of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding element may be changed based on a type of electronic device. An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed to include at least one of the described elements and a few elements may be omitted or additional elements may be further included. Also a few of elements of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are coupled to form a single entity and may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding elements which are not coupled.

The module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated element or a part thereof The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be embodied by for example an instruction stored in a computer readable storage medium provided in a form of a programming module. When the instruction is executed by at least one processor for example the processor the at least one processor may execute a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recoding medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and a hardware device specially configured to store and execute a program instruction for example a programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. In addition the program instruction may include high class language codes which may be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may receive a program including instructions that instruct the electronic device to execute a wireless charging method from a wiredly or wirelessly connected program providing device and may save the same and an electronic device of or a server may be a program providing device. The program providing device may include a memory for storing the program a communication module to execute wired or wireless communication with an electronic device and a processor that transmits a corresponding program to the electronic device automatically or in response to the electronic device.

A module or a programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the described elements a few elements may be omitted or additional other elements may be additionally included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Also a few operations may be executed based on a different order may be omitted or may additionally include another operation.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

