---

title: Portable apparatus and associated method for phased array field calibration
abstract: A system for calibrating an array antenna comprises a calibration antenna at a first location relative to an array antenna, a first set of calibration files, and a processor. Based on received far field data from a far field data test that was run on the array antenna, using the calibration antenna, the processor is configured to generate a model predicting the actual location of the calibration antenna relative to the array antenna and to generate predicted far field data based on the model. The model is adjusted, if needed, by comparing the predicted far field data with the received far field data. Based on the model, new calibration files are generated that substantially correlate to the actual location of the calibration antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614279&OS=09614279&RS=09614279
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09614279
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140811
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number W31P4Q 11 C 0177 Task Delivery Order 30 awarded by the US Army. The government has certain rights in the invention. This contract is hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments described herein relate to calibration of antennas. At least some of the described embodiments relate to methods and devices for portable calibration and recalibration of phased array antennas in the field.

A phased array antenna is an array of antennas in which the relative phases of the respective signals feeding the antennas are varied in such a way that the effective radiation pattern of the array is reinforced in a desired direction and suppressed in undesired directions. During transmission phased array antenna systems can use multiple individual antennas or in some instance subarrays of antennas where each antenna is separately energized in such a way that the multiple individual antenna elements cooperate to produce a transmitted electromagnetic wave that is highly directional. The relative phases and amplitudes of signals feeding the antenna elements may be varied to steer the transmitted electromagnetic wave e.g. a radiation pattern in a particular direction. An exemplary phased array antenna includes a plurality of active circuits spaced apart from each other by known distances. Each of the active circuits is coupled through a plurality of phase shifter circuits amplifier circuits and or other circuits to either or both of a transmitter and receiver. In some cases the phase shifter amplifier circuits and other circuits e.g. mixer circuits are provided in a so called transmit receive T R module and are considered to be part of the transmitter and or receiver.

With a phased array antenna each individual antenna element or sub array radiates energy at a different phase respectively. Thus the phased array can produce an equi phase beam front or cumulative wave front of electromagnetic energy that can travel in a given direction. The given direction in which the wave or beam travels depends at least in part on the differences in phase or timing of the signals activating the antenna. Similarly when a phased array is receiving energy the individual antennas in the phased array detect the return beams of energy and analysis of the return beam phase helps to determine the direction of arrival of a return beam.

A phased array requires proper calibration for the signal path of each element. In some instances the production facility performs an initial calibration of the phased array. This initial calibration can require precisely positioned measurement equipment. During the initial calibration that is part of the manufacturing process near field or far field sources can be used for calibration of phased arrays. After the antenna is deployed in the field calibration may need to be performed again to compensate for defective elements changes in element performance over time e.g. graceful degradation over time environmental factors e.g. wind temperature or other influencing factors etc. Calibration in the field also may be required to change or maintain desired radiation pattern characteristics implement changes to the antenna and implement other changes to maintain overall antenna performance. For example after the phased array antenna has been out in the field one or more of the phased array elements may degrade or fail over time and may need to be replaced in the field. After repair or adjustment to the phased array there might be a need to perform calibration of the phased array when one or more components that affect the signal path characteristics of the phased array are replaced.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of one or more aspects of the embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the embodiments and is neither intended to identify key or critical elements of the embodiments nor to delineate the scope thereof. Rather the primary purpose of the summary is to present some concepts of the embodiments described herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

There are several ways to calibrate or recalibrate fielded phased arrays. One way requires shipping the phased array hack to a production facility. Production facilities are able to use expensive high precision scanners that position a calibration antenna over each radiating element of a phased array. Shipping a phased array back to a production facility to use this equipment however can be costly time consuming and can result in a long down time of both the equipment being calibrated and production resources. Another option for calibrating fielded phased arrays is to install permanent calibration equipment at the site of the phased array or even as part of the phased array itself . This option can result in a more complicated equipment siting process and an increased unit cost. Installing permanent calibration equipment also may not be feasible for transportable or low cost systems. Still another option for calibrating fielded phased arrays involves positioning external calibration equipment adjacent to each antenna element in turn while ensuring precise positioning of the calibration equipment e.g. ensuring that external calibration equipment is always the exact same distance from an antenna element and located at its optical center . The accuracy of this option depends on precise and complex alignment of the calibration equipment to the antenna element which can be both expensive and time consuming.

Whether at the production facility or at the fielded phased array site calibration of phased arrays after fielding can be performed using near field or far field sources or by internally distributed reference calibration signals. Use of internally distributed reference calibration signals can add complexity cost and weight to the antenna system. Use of external antennas or probes can also add weight and complexity and can be subject to multipath reflections and external interference. In addition as noted above many known external calibration antennas require precise positioning of the external antenna for proper calibration.

During some types of calibration and maintenance of fielded phased arrays the antenna is taken offline to undergo phase and amplitude testing and calibration. With other types of calibration methods e.g. mutual coupling methods the antenna may not need to be taken out of service during calibration because the mutual coupling calibration method uses the inherent mutual coupling among radiating elements to perform an on board automatic calibration of the array. Some mutual coupling methods use regular antenna elements for calibration such that during testing these elements are dedicated to calibration only. Other mutual coupling methods add in additional antenna elements in the array that are used only for calibration. The latter method can add cost and weight to the array.

In addition with either of the above described mutual coupling methods where elements being used for calibration are packed in with the regular antenna elements one issue is that the calibration elements are located beside the elements that they are calibrating instead of facing the elements. This means that when signals are transmitted back and forth between the calibration elements and the regular antenna elements i.e. the antenna elements being calibrated the calibration elements and regular elements are at a high angle to each other. Thus the calibration elements are not in the main beam of the radiating elements. This method of calibrating can decrease the accuracy of the calibration and may not result in reliable amplitude and phase measurement. Another issue with using mutual coupling calibration approaches that have built in calibration elements is that because no external calibration antenna is used the phased array antenna is effectively being used to measure itself. Thus it is possible that misaligned elements could be used in the calibration process which can affect calibration of all the other elements.

In one embodiment an embodiment of a portable phased array calibration system and method provides advantages over prior art calibration systems and methods. For example in one embodiment a portable calibration kit is provided that can be reused at different equipment sites i.e. sites with antennas to be calibrated . The portable calibration kit can provides a lower lost solution than sending the array back to a production facility for calibration and because the portable calibration is not built into the array and does not require specially dedicated array elements for calibration the unit cost of production for the antenna arrays can be decreased. Furthermore by allowing maintenance of the antenna array to be performed on site i.e. at the deployment site of the antenna array down trine of the array and its associated equipment e.g. radar communications equipment computers etc. is decreased. In addition in at least one embodiment precise positioning of the external calibration antenna is not required. The systems apparatuses and methods described herein are applicable to many different types of array antenna systems including many types of phased array systems.

In one embodiment a method is described that uses existing calibrated elements to help determine to a high degree of accuracy the test setup and test geometry where the method calculates ideal calibration values using the test setup information. In one disclosed embodiment failed and or misaligned antenna elements are identified by comparing their test data with ideal values where the calibration results are presented in a format that can allow detection of equipment failures and calibration of antenna elements where the calibration is performed in one embodiment by updating a calibration file.

In a further embodiment the methods systems and apparatuses described herein are applicable to a near field test arrangement. In this arrangement the distance of the calibration antenna is in the far field of an individual phased array antenna element not the far field of the entire array . The calibration method of this embodiment in one embodiment is used for calibrating from scratch i.e. without use of a prior calibration and or without reference to a prior calibration if precise measurement equipment is used to position the calibration antenna and antenna under test one time . This would allow for example a production facility to perform calibration without a scanning device that may be required to be precisely positioned in front of each element of the phased array.

a calibration antenna positioned at a first location relative to the array antenna and operably configured to be used as part of a far field test conducted on the array antenna wherein the first location corresponds to an estimate of an actual location of the calibration antenna relative to the array antenna 

a first set of calibration files usable during at least one of calibration and operation of the array antenna and

a processor in operable communication with the array antenna the first set of calibration files and the calibration antenna.

 a generate a model of a predicted calibration configuration of the calibration antenna and the array antenna the model based at least in part on the first location the first set of calibration files and a first set of received far field test data generated during a first far field data test run using the first set of calibration files wherein the model defines a predicted calibration configuration comprising information related to a prediction of the actual location for the calibration antenna relative to the array antenna during the first far field calibration test 

 b adjust the model if necessary based at least in part on comparing a set of predicted far field test data generated using the model with the first set of received far field test data the adjustment of the model configured to decrease at least a portion of a difference between at least a portion of the predicted set of far field data and the corresponding portion of the first set of received far field data and

 c generate based at least in part on the model a second set of calibration files usable to replace at least a portion of the first set of calibration files.

In a further embodiment wherein the instructions further configure the processor to identify based at least in part on at least one of the models the first set of received far field test data and the predicted set of far field test data whether one or more hardware components of the antenna array require at least one of replacement and adjustment.

In another embodiment if at least one hardware component of the antenna array is adjusted or replaced the instructions further cause the far field data test to be repeated using the second set of calibration files in place of at least a portion of the first set of calibration files to result in a second set of far field data and wherein the instructions further configure the processor to repeat steps a through c using the second set of far field data and the second set of calibration files to adjust if necessary the first model and to adjust if necessary the second set of calibration files.

In another embodiment the instructions farther configure the processor to remove at least one outlier from the received far field data results before generating the first model. In another embodiment the array antenna comprises a plurality of antenna elements and wherein the model is generated based at least in part using an assumption that a predetermined portion of the antenna elements having substantially good calibration. In another embodiment the instructions further configure the processor to identify at least one outlier in the first set of received far field test data the outlier comprising at least one of an amplitude outlier a phase outlier and a frequency outlier and determine based at least in part on the identified outlier whether one or more hardware components that comprise the antenna array require either replacement or adjustment.

In another embodiment the prediction of the actual location comprises an approximate predetermined position within a predetermined model range of positions and the model is based at least in part on determining a position within the predetermined model range of position where at least a portion of a set of received far field test data for that position best matches to a corresponding portion of predicted far field test data for that position.

a calibration antenna positioned at an actual location relative to an array antenna the calibration antenna operably configured to be used as part of a far field test data test conducted on the array antenna 

a first set of calibration files usable during at least one of calibration and operation of the array antenna and

a processor in operable communication with the first set of calibration files and further in operable communication with and operable control of the array antenna and the calibration antenna wherein the actual location of the calibration antenna is not known to the processor.

analyze a set of received far field data test generated during a far field data test to determine if one or more data outliers exist and if necessary to remove at least one outlier from the far field test data results to generate a set of processed received far field test data 

generate based at least in part on the set of processed received far field test data one or more curves that approximately match the set of processed received far field test data 

generate based at least in part on the one or more curves a first model corresponding to a second calibration configuration of the calibration antenna and array antenna the second calibration configuration comprising information related to a predicted location for the calibration antenna the predicated location corresponding substantially to the actual location of the calibration antenna during the far field data test 

generate a second model for an actual position of the calibration antenna the second model based at least in part on a comparison between at least a portion of the received far field data results and at least a portion of the set of predicted far field data results 

modify the second model if necessary to ensure that the at least a portion of the set of predicted far field test data correlate within a predetermined threshold with the set of processed received far field test data 

generate based at least in part on the second model a second set of calibration files usable during operation of the array antenna and

replace at least a portion of the first set of calibration files with the second set of calibration files.

In a further embodiment the instructions further configure the processor to identify at least one outlier in the set of received far field test data the outlier comprising at least one of an amplitude outlier a phase outlier and a frequency outlier and identify based at least in part on the identified outlier at least one hardware component in the antenna array requiring either replacement or adjustment 

In another embodiment the predicted location comprises an approximate predetermined position within a predetermined model range of positions and at least one of the first and second models for the actual position of the calibration antenna is based at least in part on finding a position within the predetermined model range of positions where at least a portion of the set processed received far field test data for that position best matches to a corresponding portion of predicted far field test data for that position. In another embodiment the instructions configure the processor to update at least one of the first model second model and the second set of calibration files if a hardware component of the array antenna has been replaced or adjusted.

In a further aspect processing the set of received far field test data to remove at least one outlier further comprises identifying at least one outlier in the set of received far field test data the outlier comprising at least one of an amplitude outlier a phase outlier and a frequency outlier and determining based at least in part on the identified outlier whether one or more hardware components that comprise the antenna array require either replacement or adjustment. In another aspect if a hardware component in the array antenna is determined to have been replaced or adjusted then the method farther comprises causing the far field data test to be repeated using the second set of calibration files to replace at least a portion of the first set of calibration files and repeating steps a through f . In still further embodiments the repeating of steps a through f can be done until at least a predetermined portion of the hardware components requiring replacement or adjustment have been replaced or adjusted.

In another embodiment the repeating of steps a through f can be done until one of the following conditions is satisfied 

amplitude and phase measurements within the set of processed received far field test data substantially match amplitude and phase measurements that are predicted based on the second model 

measured amplitude results in the set of processed received far field test data show adequate gain and substantially no saturation 

when two different sets of far field test data are compared there is substantially no phase data oscillation and

when two different sets of processed received far field test data are compared phase drift does not exceed a predetermined limit.

In another embodiment the predicted location comprises an approximate predetermined position within a predetermined model range of positions and the model is based at least in part on finding a position within the predetermined model range of positions where at least a portion of the set of processed received far field test data for that position best matches to a corresponding portion of predicted far field test data for that position.

In another embodiment the array antenna comprises a plurality of antenna elements and the model is generated based at least in part using an assumption that a predetermined portion of the antenna elements have substantially good calibration. In another embodiment the predetermined portion comprises at least half of the antenna elements. In yet another embodiment the model is further based at least in part on at least one of the predicted location of the calibration antenna a predetermined distance between the calibration antenna and the array antenna and a predetermined distance between individual elements in the antenna array.

In a further embodiment a system is provided for calibrating a fielded array antenna using an external calibration antenna whose position is trot precisely known. The system comprises 

means for receiving calibration antenna data the calibration antenna data comprising information relating to the type of calibration antenna and estimated location of the calibration antenna relative to the array antenna 

means for receiving information relating to one or more thresholds usable with a model of the calibration arrangement of the calibration antenna and array antenna 

means for analyzing the calibration antenna data measured amplitude and phase data and information relating to operation frequencies range parameters model and thresholds to generate a calibration antenna position model 

means for verifying validity of the calibration antenna position model the calibration antenna position model comprising a substantially accurate location of the calibration antenna relative to the array antenna to generate a verified calibration antenna position model 

means for identifying based on the verified calibration model one or more antenna components requiring replacement or adjustment 

means for adjusting at least one of an amplitude and phase calibration file based at least in part on the verified calibration model and

means for generating a set of calibration files usable for calibration of the fielded array antenna the set of calibration files based at least in part on the adjusted at least one of amplitude and phase calibration and on the verified calibration model.

In a further aspect any or all of the above described systems and method can be implemented wholly or partially using executable code embodied on a non transitory computer readable medium the non transitory computer readable medium when operably coupled to a processor enabling the processor to execute the executable code so as to implement the system or method.

The drawings are not to scale emphasis instead being on illustrating the principles and features of the disclosed embodiments. In addition in the drawings like reference numbers indicate like elements.

The following detailed description is provided using the context of calibration an exemplary phased array antenna system. The systems methods and apparatuses described herein are anticipated to be usable with many different types of antenna systems including but not limited to phased array systems. In at least one exemplary embodiment the systems methods and apparatuses described herein are used in conjunction with the phased array radar systems of at least one of Raytheon s Air Traffic Navigation Integration and Coordination System Precision Approach Radar ATNAVICS PAR and its Fixed Base Precision Approach Radar FBPAR but the embodiments described herein are not limited to these systems. Furthermore at least some of the embodiments described herein are applicable to any devices that incorporate phased array antenna devices including but not limited to phased array radar systems and phased array communications systems as well as low power radars for weather sensing phased arrays located on airborne vehicles e.g. wings of planes rockets space vehicles etc. or on or in devices like projectiles missiles phased arrays coupled to satellites and or phased arrays used in the commercial consumer market.

ATNAVICS PAR is a ground controlled approach system including air traffic control radar that is mobile it is transportable in a single C 130 aircraft or CH 47 helicopter fully autonomous and compliant with both the International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO and the National Airspace System NAS compliant. FBPAR uses the same hardware and software as the ATNAVICS PAR differing only in its use of a pedestal that rotates to cover six predetermined runway approaches Note however that the FBPAR does not radiate when rotating i.e. when FBPAR changes runways ATNAVICS does not itself rotate although. ATNAVICS has an ASR SSR dish antenna that rotates. As will be appreciated the radars being tested and described herein are not in at least some embodiments rotating during calibration. The PAR antennas for the ATNAVICS and FBPAR systems are in at least one embodiment identical.

The ATNAVICS and FBPAR Precision Approach Radar PAR like many kinds of array radars contain passive and active components for which performance will inherently degrade or change over time. In the example of the PAR although each PAR undergoes a factory near field calibration the arrays characteristics may gradually change in the field during use. Consequentially a far field calibration technique has been developed in accordance with at least some of the systems methods and apparatuses described herein to perform calibration on fielded array antenna systems. This calibration also is usable to perform initial calibration of new hardware e.g. as a result of a failed transmit receive module or other failed component as will be appreciated.

ATNAVICS and FBPAR each provide surveillance systems capable of controlling and landing all types of fixed and rotary wing aircraft within a 25 nautical mile NMI area with capability of extended range through the use of secondary surveillance radar SSR out to 60 NMI. The ATNAVICS and FBPAR each include an X band phased array antenna that comprises X Band monolithic microwave integrated circuits MMICs . Each also includes an S Band air surveillance radar and an L Band secondary surveillance radar identification friend or foe radar.

Referring to the exemplary antenna assembly has two phased array apertures an. Azimuth Radiator assembly A and an Elevation. Radiator assembly B which scan the azimuth and elevation planes respectively. A system using the antenna assembly switches between the two apertures that is the azimuth and elevation planes are not scanned simultaneously.

Referring to the antenna assembly has a common path for both the X band. Receive Rx and X band Transmit Tx waveforms respectively. This path comprises in transmit order the RF Router Assembly the Beamformer Network made up of six 18 1 Power Dividers Combiners and one 6 1 Power Divider Combiner although neither is illustrated in one hundred eight T R. Modules see that are configured on fifty four 2 pack assemblies one Azimuth aperture A made up of four Azimuth Panels comprising a plurality of Azimuth radiators and one Elevation aperture B made up of seven Elevation Panels comprising a plurality of Elevation radiators. There are two types of 2 packs a so called 1 type in the middle of the array and a 2 type in the outer portions of the array. The 1 2 pack type directs energy to either the azimuth or elevation aperture through the use of a 90 degree hybrid combiner. The 2 type 2 packs utilize an RF switch at its output.

Although at least some advantageous embodiments are implemented and described in conjunction with a phased array radar like the aforementioned ATNAVICS PAR or FBPAR none of the embodiments are limited to any particular type configuration or frequency band of antenna or antenna. For example in at least some embodiments the systems methods and apparatuses described herein are applied in connection with antennas formed using linear and or planar arrays. In such embodiments the design and test can take into account one or more considerations regarding the layout and spacing of individual radiating elements. In addition will be appreciated variations in the antenna design based on frequency band size and other features can be made in accordance with the embodiments described herein.

Referring to in the T R module a 7 bit phase shifter is used to adjust the phase of each T R module with respect to the location of that T R module in the antenna assembly . In this exemplary module of the phase quantization is 2.8125 with 360 full range phase shift but this is not limiting. The phase shifter commands are stored in a corresponding calibration file these files are discussed further herein . A 6 bit attenuator is used to adjust the gain of each T R module to provide amplitude weighting for the receive antenna pattern. In this exemplary T R module the attenuation control has 0.5 dB resolution and a full attenuation range of 31.5 dB but this is not limiting. The attenuator commands are stored in a corresponding calibration file.

In one embodiment the far field calibration systems methods and apparatuses described herein use programmable components of the aforementioned T R modules to recalibrate the beam steering of the antenna system . As will be appreciated this is readily applicable to other phased arrays having programmable components antenna or radar components that are capable of recalibrating beam steering of the array.

As noted above a baseline calibration for an array such as the PAR antenna is done in the near field range NFR at manufacturing or test facility. The near field range provides a controlled environment and precision measurement techniques to provide highly reliable and stable measurements. The calibration process determines receive mode amplitude calibration factors and phase calibration factors for all TRMs . Taylor weighting is applied to receive mode to decrease antenna side lobes. Calibration factors are stored in corresponding calibration files that are stored on the SCDI computer radar computer . Upon startup these calibration files are used for online antenna control and fault isolation. These calibration files are discussed farther herein. There may be critical need however for the ability to re calibrate fielded systems to perform antenna repairs and to maintain system performance. At present the capability and resources to perform a near field calibration on fielded systems do not exist.

As will be explained farther herein the calibration systems methods and apparatuses described herein allow a user to measure calibration data using a fixed calibration horn position without the need for precisely positioned calibration equipment. At least some embodiments of the calibration test described herein rely on at least some TRMs being properly calibrated in one embodiment it relies on at least 50 of the TRMs being properly calibrated to determine the precise position of the calibration horn . With this position determined the Far Field Calibration FFC tool is able to find and make improvements to at least some of the problematic TRMs .

Referring again to the setup is configured to calibrate a radar system that includes a receiver exciter operably coupled to a phased may antenna which in this example is a PAR antenna . The receiver exciter includes an upconverter which is used during transmit and a downconverter used during receive . The exemplary phased array antenna may be used to transmit and or receive signals and includes the aforementioned RF router subsystem and a combiner divider network as well as a plurality of transmit receive modules through and an array having an azimuth aperture and an elevation aperture comprising a plurality of radiating elements 

In the example embodiment that uses the ATNAVICS radar for example the plurality of radiating elements RE includes a total of 168 elements but this is not limiting. As an example there are 168 total radiating elements in the PAR made up of 84 elements from each of the two sub arrays . These elements are fed by 108 TRMs see that direct energy to a single sub array at a time. For the PAR RE energy is combined from pairs of TRMs in the middle of the array. For example TRMs having numbers and feed individual elements and energy from TRMs having numbers is combined in pairs to feed individual elements. Other array designs may operate similarly or with a different radiating arrangement as will be appreciated.

When the phased array antenna is operating in non calibration mode the receiver exciter provides a transmission signal out of the upconverter for transmission by one or both of the arrays of radiating elements where the transmission signal to be transmitted is coupled through the RF router then to the combiner divider network where the transmission signal is divided into a plurality of first sub signals . Each respective first sub signal is provided to a corresponding one of the transmit receive modules TRMs see also which themselves can include one or more suitable channel components e.g. power amplifier low noise amplifier phase shifter circulator driver attenuator etc. for sending and or receiving signals The TRMs can in some embodiments control features of the second sub signals that feed one or both of the arrays of radiating elements to help direct the effective radiation pattern of the phased array . From the TRMs the second sub signals being transmitted are then provided then to one or both of the arrays of the plurality of radiating elements to be radiated out of the phased array as may be well understood. Note that in the test setup of the transmission signal is routed through the switch .

Similarly when the phased array antenna receives signals at one or both of the arrays of radiating elements it couples these many received second sub signals through the TRMs then to the combiner divider network here the many first sub signals are combined into a first single composite received signal then the first composite received signal is provided to the RF Router then as a second composite received signal through the switch if present then as a third composite downconverted received signal to the downconverter of the receiver . For exemplary phased array antennas that are electronically scanned the phase of the phase shifter circuits and thus the beam direction is selected by sending a control signal or word to each of the phase shifter sections where the control information is provided via one or more control signals sent by a controller or processor such as the radar computer also referred to herein as SCDI computer shown in the exemplary system of . The control signal is in one embodiment a digital signal representative of a desired phase shill as well as a desired attenuation level and other control data.

In at least some embodiments described herein the applicable systems methods and apparatuses are not limited to calibration of antennas e.g. phased array antennas used in radar modes only but also are applicable to antennas that transmit and or receive signals comprising information. Information may refer to voice data text audio video multimedia control signaling other information or any combination s of any one or more of the preceding.

Referring again to the calibration equipment e.g. calibration kit used to calibrate the phased array antenna includes a calibration antenna which in the example of is a calibration horn a transmit receive TX RX RF switch a calibration computer and associated cabling and connections equipment through that may be necessary to interconnect the calibration equipment with various components of the radar system . The associated cabling and connections also includes those cables and connections that may be necessary for interconnection within the radar system. itself including the radar computer Site Control and Data Interface SCDI computer and the connections that carry the transmitted signal and received signal . The appropriate connections can include many different types of cables brackets connectors adapters interfaces attenuators splitters and the like as may be required given the particular types of equipment used for calibration and used in the radar system that may need to be operably connected during calibration. For example in one embodiment when a calibration horn is used as the calibration antenna a bracket not shown in is coupled to a transition adapter of the calibration horn and then is mounted to an appropriate object such a lighting pole or tripod that is capable of supporting the calibration horn in an appropriate fixed position relative to the antenna as will be appreciated. Advantageously the calibration kit optionally includes brackets poles or other hardware used to hold the calibration horn in place in an appropriate location.

Referring again to the calibration antenna in one embodiment is a NARDA 640 standard gain horn antenna available from L 3 Communications Corporation Narda Microwave East 435 Moreland Road Hauppauge N.Y. 11788. However other types of antennas whose beam patterns are well known also are usable for calibration based on the range of distances used for setting up the calibration antenna with respect to the radiating elements the size spacing of the radiating elements etc. Virtually any type of calibration antenna is usable so long as the calibration computer has calibration data for that calibration antenna . The calibration antenna is positioned so that it is approximately located at an appropriate far field distance based on frequency etc. from the array of radiating elements and is positioned to receive a signal transmitting from at least one of the radiating elements .

In one embodiment the calibration horn should be far enough away from the antenna such that substantially all of the elements of the antenna are in the main beam of the calibration antenna to ensure lower incidence angles . The main constraint for positioning is the incidence angle between the calibration horn and each radiating element . For a larger array the calibration antenna would be positioned at a greater distance. Advantageously the calibration how can be positioned so that its boresight is the intersection of the center of the Azimuth and Elevation arrays. discussed further herein shows an illustrative example of where the calibration horn is to be placed for an array such as ATNAVICS but note that the location is very flexible. For ATNAVICS the azimuth aperture is the horizontal aperture and the elevation aperture is vertical.

In one exemplary embodiment the calibration horn is positioned about 15 30 feet in one embodiment the preferred distance is 25 feet from the azimuth and elevation apertures but this will of course vary in any given embodiment based on the far field distance for the array. For example if the phase array antenna is an X band antenna where X band is approximately from 7.25 to 12 GHz and corresponding wavelength is from 41.1 mm to 30 mm respectively the far field distance can be computed as Far Field distance 2 1 

Referring again to in one embodiment an optional RF absorber can be used to block portions of the antenna array e.g. a sub array such as the azimuth array during calibration of the remaining portion of the array . Use of an RF absorber is not always necessary for all embodiments of course but may be required or recommended for example when calibrating arrays having sub arrays or other portions of the array or nearby antennas of another type that are being driven by same signal that may need to be wholly or partially blocked during calibration e.g. the ATNAVICS system which has two sub arrays . In because the exemplary phased array antenna of the setup of has a first sub array of radiating elements and a second sub array of radiating elements during calibration of one of the two sub arrays an RE absorber is placed over the other sub array that is not being calibrated to block at least some leakage or other interference from the array not being calibrated to the array being calibrated. The absorber is removeably attached to the antenna in any appropriate fashion e.g. by straps clips screws etc.

As may be understood in connection with the use of RF absorbers it may be recognized that use of an RF absorber is not required for all implementations even those with sub arrays depending on the configuration of the arrays how transmitted signals are provided to the arrays the amount of actual interference etc. In at least some embodiments however use of the RF absorber may be needed during calibration helps ensure that calibration data is being collected primarily from the element that is being calibrated and that there is not leakage entering into the calibration horn from other elements. RF absorbers can be used in at least some situations where there is a potential for interference from other sources.

In one embodiment during far field data collection the RF absorber is placed over the aperture that is not under test. The RE absorber serves two purposes. The first is to prevent unwanted RF signal in the array not under test. Such unwanted RF signal can for example result from the 90 degree hybrid combiner at the output of the 2 packs routing the signal to both the azimuth and elevation apertures . The second purpose is to help identify 2 packs with stuck switches. Since the FFC data collection process discussed further herein alternately exercises both the array under test and the off array a measured signal at the array under test when the off array is active i.e. array under test is not active may indicate an output switch problem in one or more of the associated 2 packs . The RE absorber can be tuned for a frequency range. In one example embodiment the RF Absorber is implemented using a ECCOSORB ANW 73 available from Emerson and Cuming Microwave Products Inc. of Randolph Mass. but this is not limiting. This particular brand of absorber can be used as part of a test performed from within a near field range.

The TX RX switch is in the exemplary embodiment of a USB controlled RF switch matrix. is a block diagram showing interconnections between the TX RX switch and the other test equipment in the exemplary field calibration setups of in accordance with one embodiment. The block diagram of illustrates an embodiment Where the calibration computer shown for illustrative and not limiting purposes as a laptop computer is contained within an optional transit case . In addition the block diagram of illustrates that the calibration computer is coupled to a computer network such as an Ethernet Local Area Network LAN via a System Ethernet Switch .

In one embodiment one type of USB controlled RF switch usable with the ATNAVICS phased array radar is a model USB 4SPDT A18 switch available from Mini Circuits Company 13 Neptune Ave Brooklyn N.Y. 11235. is a block diagram illustrating the details of this automated switch matrix which is usable in a first version of the embodiment of . The USB 4SPDT A18 has four SPDT absorptive switches configurable via a local patch panel and provides a standalone graphical user interface GUI connection between the radar system antenna and calibration computer .

As will be appreciated the illustrated and described type style and brand of TX RX switch is not limiting and virtually any RE switch is usable as the TX RX switch so long as the switch is connectable e.g. directly or via adapters connectors and or cables etc to the appropriate components and has an applicable recommended frequency range that at least includes covers the frequency range used by the antenna being calibrated. For example in one alternate embodiment a manual rotary switch as shown in is used in place of the switch matrix . The RF switch can be implemented in various ways including through use of multiple different discrete components as may be appreciated and understood. Advantageously if the RF switch matrix is a commercial off the shelf COTS part such as described in connection with no additional integration with system software is required. In at least some embodiments the alternate manual rotary switch of or other manual switch can be used in place of and or as a backup to the switch matrix of .

The switch is configured to direct energy between the receiver exciter via downconverter transmitter via upconverter calibration antenna and phased array antenna . For example for a transmit test the phased array transmits to the calibration antenna . In particular the switch is configured so that the transmitter upconverter is connected to the phased array i.e. the transmitted signal is provided as an input see Tx W in to the phased array and the calibration antenna is connected to receiver downconverter via W and the cable . For the receive test the calibration antenna transmits to the phased array antenna the transmitter upconverter is connected to calibration antenna via coax AT and the phased array antenna is connected to receiver exciter via downconverter via W and Rx in .

Use of the TX RX switch helps the calibration setup to make use of existing radar system hardware during calibration allows the radar system signals to be used during calibration and provides a connection point for the calibration antenna to be inserted into the transmit receive path of the system . For example in one configuration the TX RX switch can be configured to route the transmitted signal to the calibration antenna to be radiated back into fed into the phased array antenna so that at least one of the radiating elements can receive the transmitted signal and the transmitted signal received at the radiating element is routed back and provided as a received signal at the receiver via received signal to the receiver . Advantageously in one embodiment the radar computer provides an interface to control the radar and collect data. When data collection has finished data files are copied from the radar computer to the calibration computer . The Calibration Computer uses at least a portion of the information about the received signal to help to determine whether the transmitted signal received at the at least one radiating element indicates that the at least one radiating element is properly calibrated. This is explained in greater detail herein.

In a further example the TX RX switch can be configured e.g. via the USB control shown in which is able to change the state or setting of the switch via a signal from the calibration computer to allow the transmitted signal to be routed such that it propagates through the phased array antenna and is radiated by at least one of the radiating elements one radiating element at a time and is received at calibration antenna which then routes the signal it receives back through the TX RF switch into the downconverter receiver as a received signal . Information about this received signal at the downconverter receiver is then provided to the radar computer which then provides the information to the calibration computer which uses the information about the received signal to help to determine whether the transmitted signal received at the calibration antenna indicates that the radiating element is properly calibrated.

Refer in again to one or more fixed value attenuators e.g. AT are used in at least some embodiments to fine tune signal level and prevent signal saturation and component damage. For example in one embodiment attenuation may be needed at the receiver front end e.g. between the calibration horn and the switch to help ensure that A D converters present in a coherent detector of the receiver not shown in the figures are kept out of saturation in both transmit and receive test modes. For example in one embodiment the saturation of the A D converters is approximately 17.7 dBm signal level at the input to the coherent detectors and the maximum rated input at the RF switch is 30 dBm. In this example incorporating 15 dBm of attenuation helps to keep the input to the coherent detector below 27 dBm i.e. about 10 dB below saturation in both Tx and Rx test modes. This example is illustrative and not limiting. Further the illustrative fixed attenuators can in some embodiments be replaced by programmable or variable attenuators.

At least some of the calibration systems and methods described herein also use a set of calibration files also referred to herein as far field calibration FFC files that are stored in a location where the calibration computer can access them as needed. In the exemplary embodiment of the calibration files are stored on the radar computer but this too is not limiting. The calibration files in other embodiments can be stored in a location other than the radar computer such as in a storage device in operable communication with the calibration computer including but not limited to a hard drive a CD ROM a USB drive or other persistent data storage devices not illustrated in presently known or developed in the future. The calibration files can be stored anywhere where the calibration computer and or the radar computer can access them as required for operation of the arrays even in at least some embodiments on the calibration computer itself such as if the calibration setup uses the radar computer as the calibration computer and can be stored in any form capable of being updated with new calibration information as will be appreciated. In at least one embodiment the calibration files are used during normal operation of the phased array antenna and are stored in a location accessible to the radar computer .

In the example embodiment of the calibration computer is a separate computer from the radar computer . As will be appreciated having the calibration computer be separate from the radar computer can be more cost effective to implement on a fielded system and also does not require changes to the radar computer . However the radar computer in one embodiment can be configured to serve as the calibration computer such that no separate calibration computer would be required. The structure of an exemplary radar computer and or calibration computer in at least some embodiments is at least similar to the setup shown in described further herein .

One or more operational algorithms running on the Calibration Computer which algorithms are described further herein especially in connection with and illustrated further by information in help to perform a far field calibration FFC of the phased array antenna especially when certain conditions occur that can indicate that an existing calibration may no longer be accurate such as after the phased array antenna has been moved after phased array antenna operating conditions environment has changed and o after one or more radiating elements or other components of the phased array antenna have been replaced repaired or otherwise modified adjusted. During calibration the calibration computer cooperates with the radar computer to cause the array of individual radiating elements to radiate. In one embodiment the individual radiating elements are radiated one at a time. Note that some of these TRMs combine to radiate to the same element but each TRM is calibrated individually. For this embodiment of the calibration computer does not control the system during the data collection. Instead the Signal Data Processor SDP of the radar system controls the system . The SDP transfers data e.g. far field calibration files and data to the radar computer e.g. via connection cable H and the radar computer records the data to FFC files . The SDP in one embodiment includes at least the elements of the computer system of .

As referenced previously the far field calibration FFC utilizes the calibration horn placed in front of the array to probe each array in transmit and receive modes and all four frequencies F F F and F . The calibration horn is connected to the Receiver Exciter REX of the system under test. The FFC process allows for flexibility an placement of the calibration horn and there are a range of suitable locations where the calibration horn can be positioned relative to the antenna under test and pointed. In one embodiment such as the embodiment using a PAR antenna there are some constraints in relation to the distance of the calibration horn from the PAR antenna .

For example if using a PAR antenna at distances less than 15 feet the steep incidence angles between the transmitted wave front and PAR radiating elements will begin to impact phase measurement accuracy due to pattern roll off. Additionally the internal calibration patch antennas of the PAR antenna begin to act as corner reflectors at distances less than 15 feet creating additional phase error for TRM measurements near the end of the array. The position of the calibration horn along the aperture under test also impacts the incidence angles. Gain margin decreases as calibration horn distance increases thus possibly limiting calibration horn distance. In one embodiment it is advantageous if the calibration horn is located between 15 and 30 feet from the array antenna being calibrated with a preferred distance in one embodiment of approximately 25 feet distance between the calibration horn and the antenna . These distances are exemplary and not limiting.

In addition in one embodiment it is advantageous if the minimum amplitude measurement is kept above 20 dB to maintain adequate signal to noise ratio SNR . Receive mode can be the limiting mode because of the increased dynamic range of amplitude that may be needed for Taylor weighting. The pointing angle of the calibration horn can be adjusted to minimize or at least decrease dynamic range. In one embodiment it is advantageous if the calibration horn is positioned such that the boresight of the horn is located at the intersection of the center of the azimuth array and elevation Array

In one embodiment a mounting position for the calibration horn that meets the above requirements has been chosen for the FFC procedures described farther herein. In this embodiment a single antenna position and pointing angle is used to simplify the test procedure. For example referring briefly to which is an illustration of an exemplary calibration horn mounting location in accordance with one embodiment the calibration horn advantageously is mounted according to at a position that is approximately normal to the intersection of the azimuth and elevation apertures and a distance d parallel to the ground at an exemplary distance of about 20 ft. The calibration horn in one embodiment is aimed i.e. calibration horn boresight at the intersection of the center of the azimuth and elevation arrays as shown in to help minimize or at least decrease the dynamic range of amplitude measurements.

This calibration horn position can be achieved reliably for an array antenna such as the aforementioned ATNAVICS PAR and for many other types of antennas using a tripod mount. Horn mounting for some kinds of array antennas such as FBPAR systems can pose a challenge due to the varying site layout and platform heights that can limit the available area around the PAR antenna to mount the calibration horn antenna. For systems such as these the calibration horn can be mounted to a tripod or another suitable structure nearby such as a pole lightning tower etc. As may be appreciated the mounting of the calibration horn requires engineering judgment on a case by case basis.

In addition in at least one embodiment The FFC tool described further herein requires a model range to solve for the position of the calibration horn . A tape measure or other measurement device is used to provide an initial manual estimate of the calibration horn location . Referring again to and also to which is a graph illustrating exemplary far field geometry associated with the field calibration test setups of in accordance with one embodiment the measurements that may be needed are the distance of the horn from the arrays and the distance of the horn along each aperture azimuth and elevation . The distance along the aperture is entered in terms of radiating element number and can be measured by holding a tape measure normal to the array face to the calibration antenna and noting the location of the tape measure on the array face.

Referring to in one exemplary array antenna e.g. the PAR antenna azimuth aperture radiating elements are numbered with element starting from the left when facing the array head on with a 0.852 inch separation between the center of each radiating element this separation is exemplary and not limiting . Elevation aperture radiating elements are also numbered from starting at the bottom of the elevation aperture with a 1.467 separation between the respective centers of each radiating element this separation also is exemplary and not limiting . Using the horn positioning given above in the external horn distance along the array face would be azimuth radiating element and elevation radiating element position 10. A negative number for Elevation is appropriate since the center of the calibration horn is in this example below Elevation radiating element . Note that the FFC solver described herein discussed further below in connection with herein is designed to handle negative numbers for distance along the array face and can accommodate for uncertainty in the location of the calibration horn through adjustable model ranges.

In contrast to far field testing one advantage of the near field range is the ability to probe each element individually using an RF scanner x y z plane . In this probing an RF probe moves in front of each element to take measurements. For a far field measurement however a probe e.g. the calibration horn is at a fixed location in the far field for each aperture . Consequently each element has a unique geometric relationship to the calibration horn resulting in the phase and amplitude measurements being a function of the geometric parameters. is a graph illustrating exemplary far field geometry associated with the field calibration test setups of in accordance with one embodiment and also illustrates at least some of the relevant parameters for modeling the far field phase and amplitude these are discussed further herein in connection with the phase model .

The set of input data includes calibration horn type test frequency plan model range vectors measured phase measured amplitude and failure thresholds . These inputs can be provided on the fly e.g. during the calibration test itself whether automatically or manually from a file manually provided by a user etc. or in advance as part of the set of input data . For the calibration horn type a calibration horn is selected from a pre defined selection list for each array and the selection will determine the antenna pattern to use in data processing. For the test frequency plan the specific F F F and F frequencies used on the system are selected provided where the selected frequencies impact the wavelength calculation and in turn the model solver. Model range vectors can be provided as part of a model range solver where ranges can be specified for configuration parameters that the FFC tool can auto solve. Note that if a single value is provided for start and stop ranges the auto solver functionality discussed further herein in connection with is not necessarily used in all embodiments. For measured phase and measured amplitude information is provided about input files that contain the measured amplitude and phase. For failure thresholds phase and amplitude thresholds can be set and the FFC tool uses these thresholds to detect TRM failures. Failure thresholds also can be used to drive the calibration the updates.

The set of output data in this illustrative example includes a MICROSOFT POWERPOINT PPT report a MICROSOFT EXCEL report and a set of Binary Files calibration files . Note that use of specific MICROSOFT data formats e.g. EXCEL and POWERPOINT is merely exemplary and not limiting it will be appreciated that information that output can be arranged into any format a user or receiving system requires. The PPT report provides a way to export all decision aids into a presentation type of package. In the Excel report all output data is exported to a spreadsheet file such as an EXCEL file that contains model parameters delta calculations and statistical data.

For the set of binary files the FFC tool outputs three files used as Sensor Unique calibration data by an antenna system such as ATNAVICS FBPAR. These files contain PAR calibration data and are described in detail herein. As an example three binary files that are included are listed below with a date time stamp format that is appended by the FFC Tool 

 a Coupling data.o.yyyymmdd hhmmss Generated after selecting Generate Calibration Files with Phase Adjustments 

 b Beam pos table 1.o.yyymmdd hhmmss Generated after selecting Generate Calibration Files with Phase Adjustments or Generate Calibration Files with Amp. Adjustments 

 c Beam pos table 2.o.yyyymmdd hhmss Generated after selecting Generate Calibration Files with Phase Adjustments or Generate Calibration Files with Amp. Adjustments 

Referring to and briefly to a Far Field Data Test FFDT see Signal Data Processor of block is used to control the array antenna and collect far field data e.g. in ASCII file format but this is not limiting . These data files are then transferred from the antenna system under test to a calibration computer for processing by the FFC tool shown in these tests also can be done by the radar system computer . The process of FFDT data collection and FFC tool analysis are in some embodiments repeated over multiple passes where each pass includes an incremental improvement including hardware replacement amplitude calibration and phase calibration. are discussed further below.

For example in one embodiment during calibration test pulses are transmitted between the antenna and the external calibration horn antenna . The external calibration horn is connected e.g. via cable A to the receiver exciter REX enclosure of the system under test via switch to utilize the test signal generation and processing functions of the receiver exciter for data collection. The setup in this example includes an RF switch matrix that is used to switch between receive and transmit modes. For receive mode the RF switch directs energy to transmit from the upconverter through the calibration horn and connects signal W from the RF router on cable E to the downconverter via cable G to receive through the antenna . For transmit mode RF switch settings in the switch are changed such that RF energy is transmitted by the antenna. to the calibration horn which feeds the received signal to the downconverter . In one embodiment the radar system s Sensitivity Time Control STC feature is used for attenuation of the test signal to prevent receiver saturation. A full set of far field data is collected in one or more ASCII files e.g. the FFC files and is transferred to the FFC laptop calibration computer for data analysis and processing.

At least a portion of the existing calibrated elements in the array of elements are used to determine the calibration test setup and calibration geometry e.g. the positioning of the calibration antenna relative to one or more radiating elements in the array of radiating elements i.e. the positioning of the antenna itself as will be explained further herein. The calibration computer calculates ideal calibration values based at least in part on information about the calibration test setup and calibration geometry for example a range of possible calibration horn locations is provided as a model solver range e.g. an example distance of calibration horn from the antenna is four 4 to five 5 meters and in one embodiment the calibration computer generates one or more curves displayed on a user interface to aid in analysis e.g. as shown in the exemplary user interface displays of discussed further herein . The curves based on the ideal calibration values e.g. theoretical or predicted curves are compared with curves generated from measuring signals emitted from the radiating element s under test i.e. measured or actual curves . At least some of the failures and misaligned antenna elements can be readily identified after automatically comparing curves generated from these measured signals and comparing those curves with the ideal values on the ideal curves.

For example in one embodiment the FFC tool automatically solves for the location of the calibration antenna e.g. via best fit curve fitting as described further below and also automatically solves for identification of failed components and or misaligned elements which are outliers from this best fit curve. Failure identification is based on a predetermined threshold such as a user defined threshold. Also for both cases the location of the calibration antenna and the identification of failed misaligned components in at least one embodiment the user has the option to make manual changes e.g. through entering a different calibration horn location or through selecting deselecting TRMs for calibration . This is explained in greater detail herein.

Based on the calibration results the algorithms running on the calibration computer modify the calibration files as needed to adjust amplitude and phase calibration as may be needed. These adjustments in the calibration files then are used during operation of the phased array . Calibration and the associated adjustments is explained further below.

In one embodiment the algorithms and methods associated with the FFC tool run on the calibration computer and help determine component failures and deficiencies within the radar system and provide alerts and or reports indicating which components may require replacement adjustment and or calibration. In another embodiment these algorithms and methods associated with the FFC tool run on the radar computer in addition to the one or more operational algorithms already running on the radar computer that implement basic operational functions of the radar system .

The radar computer optionally can disable or turn off a given component in the radar system so that the component can be repaired adjusted removed e.g. for repair or for external adjustments or calibration or replaced. In one embodiment an algorithm running on the calibration computer or if applicable the radar computer if the radar computer is being used as the calibration computer uses the information contained in the calibration files during operation and or self testing to detect possibly faulty components augment modify amplitude and phase correction information stored in and or used by the TRMs to ensure correct operation and based on calibration information apply appropriate corrections if needed to all TRMs and optionally to other antenna components and or receiver exciter components .

The Far Field Data Test FFDT is used for far field amplitude and phase data collection in block of . The test is included in the FFC software . In one embodiment the FFDT runs as part of the PAR Control and Monitoring PARCM firmware executed on the PAR Signal Data Processor SDP . The four FFDT configurations in one embodiment consist of the aperture and mode combinations azimuth receive azimuth transmit elevation receive and elevation transmit. Any order of configurations can be run for this test. The test collects a pair of amplitude and phase measurements for all applicable data. The values for each pair can be compared to assess the stability of the far field measurements RF router and TRM commands are sent to set up transmit and receive paths and 2 type TRMs are controlled to radiate through one of the two apertures . Off Array amplitude values are collected to assess the performance of the 2 type TRM switches where the off array is the aperture that has absorber applied during the test. Amplitude calibration factors and phase calibration factors are applied during data collection.

In this exemplary embodiment running a configuration data collection generates 4 files one for each frequency and a full pass of far field data will consist of the 16 files listed below in Table 1.

In one embodiment the calibration antenna calibration computer TX RX RF switch cabling and optionally the RF absorber as described above together form a portable calibration kit that can be re used at different equipment sites to calibrate the antenna systems at those sites.

Before getting into a detailed description of the operation of far field calibration tool referral is made briefly to which shows a block diagram of a computer system usable with at least some embodiments including the calibration setup of . For example the computer system can be used to implement the calibration computer of and or the radar computer of .

Referring again to the computer system of systems and methods in accordance with at least some embodiments can be implemented using any type of computer system running any one or more types of operating systems. Exemplary types of computer systems on which at least some embodiments can be embodied include any system or device having a processor or equivalent processing functionality installed or embedded including but not limited to a desktop computer personal computer PC laptop computer notebook computer tablet computer handheld computer netbook personal digital device including but not limited to personal digital assistant PDA mobile communications device including but not limited to radio conventional telephone mobile cellular telephone smart phone combination phone tablet computer music playing device electronic reading device server workstation and interconnected group of computers as well as any other type of device having a microprocessor installed or embedded thereto such as a field programmable gate array FPGA .

The exemplary computer system of includes a central processor associated memory for storing programs and or data an input output controller a disk controller a network interface a display device one or more input devices a fixed or hard disk drive unit a removal storage device drive optional optionally a backup storage device e.g. a tape drive unit not shown and a data bus coupling these components to allow communication therebetween.

The central processor can be any type of microprocessor such as a PENTIUM family processor made by Intel of Santa Clara Calif. The display device can be any type of display such as a liquid crystal display LCD plasma display cathode ray tube display CRT light emitting diode LED and the like capable of displaying in whole or in part any desired information. The input device can be any type of device capable of providing the desired inputs such as keyboards numeric keypads touch screens pointing devices switches styluses and light pens. The network interface can be any type of a device card adapter or connector that provides the computer system with network access to a computer or other device such as a printer. For example the network interface can enable the computer system to connect to a computer network such as the Internet. Other computer accessories that are now known or developed in the future e.g. microphones cameras speakers biometric access control devices such as fingerprint scanners etc. although not illustrated in the block diagram of can of course be included as part of the computer system .

Computer systems embodying at least some embodiments described herein need not include every element shown in and that equivalents to each of the elements are intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the described embodiments.

In at least one embodiment one or more computer programs define at least some of the operational capabilities of the computer system . These programs can be loaded into the computer system in many ways such as via the hard disk drive the removable storage driver or the network interface e.g. wirelessly via the Internet etc. . Alternatively the programs can reside in a permanent memory portion e.g. a read only memory ROM chip of the main memory . In another embodiment the computer system can include specially designed dedicated hard wired electronic circuits that perform all functions described herein without the need for instructions from computer programs.

In at least one embodiment the computer system is networked to other devices such as in a client server or peer to peer system. The computer system can for example be a client system a server system or a peer system. In addition at least one embodiment is implemented at the server side and receives and responds to requests from a client such as a reader application running on a user computer.

The client can be any entity such as the computer system or specific components thereof e.g. terminal personal computer mainframe computer workstation hand held device electronic book personal digital assistant peripheral etc. or a software program running on a computer directly or indirectly connected or connectable in any known or later developed manner to any type of computer network such as the Internet. A client may also be a notebook computer a handheld computing device e.g. a PDA an Internet appliance a telephone an electronic reader device or any other such device connectable to the computer network.

The server can be any entity such as the computer system a computer platform an adjunct to a computer or platform or any component thereof such as a program that can respond to requests from a client. The server also may include a display supporting a graphical user interface GUI for management and administration and an Application Programming Interface API that provides extensions to enable application developers to extend and or customize the core functionality thereof through software programs including Common Gateway Interface CGI programs plug ins servlets active server pages server side include SSI functions and the like.

In addition software embodying at least some embodiments resides in an application running on the computer system . At least one embodiment is embodied in a computer read able program medium usable with the general purpose computer system . At least one embodiment is embodied in a data structure stored on a computer or a computer readable program medium. At least one embodiment is embodied in an application programming interface API or a user interface. In addition at least one embodiment is embodied in a data structure.

Referral is now made to the test setup of and also to which is a process flowchart showing an overall calibration method for the FFC tool of in accordance with one embodiment. is an additional flowchart showing further data processing details applicable to the top level process of in accordance with one embodiment. Each of these figures and flowcharts is discussed individually and in relation to each other further below.

Referring first to the method shows two functional blocks the Phased Array System block and the Far Field Calibration FFC Tool block . In one embodiment the processing steps shown in the Phased Array System block take place in the radar computer and the processing steps shown in the FFC Tool block take place in the calibration computer but this is not limiting. It will be appreciated that the processing steps shown in can be broken up to run in many different ways including all on the radar computer all on the calibration computer certain steps on the radar computer and certain other steps on the calibration computer etc. All or some of the processing in these blocks also can be implemented using one or more additional processors as will be readily understood.

Before the calibration begins the test setup is arranged as shown in . The calibration antenna is positioned in front of the phased array antenna at a predetermined orientation i.e. at a predetermined height and distance e.g. an appropriate far field distance as discussed above in connection with where positioning in front of the phased array helps to improve the coupling between elements. It is not required that the calibration antenna be precisely positioned rather knowledge of the calibration antenna position itself can be approximately known or predicted or estimated and the distance between the radiating elements be known so that information about the position is able to be provided to the calibration algorithms. As explained further herein rough measurements of the position of the calibration horn are taken and this position is provided to the ITC tool plus or minus a model range where the FFC tool performs curve fitting over this model range. The measured data is curve fitted to a set of model data which is dependent on the location of the calibration horn . The FFC tool finds a location for the calibration horn within the model range where the measured data best fits the model data. This best fit helps in at least some embodiments to more precisely determine the actual position of the calibration antenna .

The TX RF switch is connected in between the receiver exciter the phased array antenna and the calibration computer as shown in . The calibration computer which in one exemplary embodiment is a laptop but this is not limiting is connected to both the calibration antenna and the TX RX RF switch . Advantageously in one embodiment at least some of the existing hardware and software of the radar system e.g. the receiver transmitter radar computer TRMs etc. are also used during calibration and for data collection which helps to simplify the hardware that may be used for calibration.

Thus in accordance with at least some embodiments a calibration kit that can be used at fielded sites for calibration of fielded antenna systems can include passive components such as the TX RX switch the calibration antenna e.g. a horn antenna associated cables and also includes the software usable to run the calibration tests on a suitable calibration computer which can be any computer controller or other device capable of running the calibration software . During the calibration steps described below the transmitter is controlled via signals sent from the radar computer to generate a signal that is routed to the receiver of the system under test. For example the signal can be radiated outward from the phased array antenna to be received at the calibration antenna to calibrate die transmit path or provided to the calibration antenna to be received at the phased array antenna to calibrate the receive path. The existing phased array control software which in some embodiments is running on the radar computer and in other embodiments such as embodiments using ATNAVICS is running on the SDP controls the individual TRMs as well as the receiver exciter to enable individual radiating elements to be calibrated tested and to enable the signals that are received either at the receiver or at the calibration antenna to be processed before providing information about them to the calibration computer . The calibration computer controls the TX RX switch to receiver and measures the amplitude phase and polarization measurements.

Referring again to at the time that the process starts block the far field calibration test is begun block . The processing that takes place in block run far field calibration test includes the calibration computer sending control commands to the radar computer to cause the radar computer to control the radar system as indicated by the calibration test including controlling when the transmitted signal is generated as well as its frequency signal level phase etc processing the received signal as will be understood and acquiring all far field test data that is later used in blocks .

Because of the interdependence of antenna components amplitude calibration and phase calibration the FFC calibration process of in at least one embodiment actually involves multiple process subsets of incremental changes to the antenna and calibration where a process subset in this context refers a set of related blocks in the process such as a baseline assessment process subset a module replacement and assessment process subset an amplitude calibration and assessment process subset and a phase adjustment and calibration process subset . Hardware changes such as replacement of 2 pack modules or TRM input cables can be performed first then amplitude calibration and finally phase calibration. The impact of these changes is assessed along the way. Each process subset thus can involve multiple passes of far field data collection and analysis if expected results are not achieved on a given pass through the method of . That is the method shown in the may be run multiple times in multiple passes as component are replaced and or as calibration and or other values are adjusted or updated.

With each pass of far field data collection block the far field data is in one embodiment advantageously validated to ensure that 

 c that there is substantially no large phase data oscillation or drift greater than 10 degrees between two sets of collected data as indicated in the stability data.

In one embodiment the far field calibration test that takes place in block runs on the SDP independently from the calibration tool and calibration computer . During the far field calibration test the SDP controls the phased array to radiate from individual TRMs and collects amplitude and phase information and the SDP collects this data and stores this information in a file accessible to the calibration computer e.g. by writing the data to a file on the calibration computer . The far field calibration test can include performing some averaging to decrease measurement error. The far field calibration test controls the TRMs to radiate and the system to collect amplitude and phase data for each TRM . The far field calibration test applies signal level adjustment and controls amplitude taper and phase control. During phase measurements different phase values are commanded and then averaged to provide a phase measurement. The far field calibration test applies the current amplitude and phase calibration coefficients. The processing that takes place in block also includes the calibration computer configuring the TX RX switch as indicated during the calibration test.

Referring still to block in one embodiment the far field calibration test collects far field data in the four configurations described above in connection with Table 1. In addition in one embodiment the first set of far field data collected is a baseline assessment which helps to give an indication of the state of the system prior to making at least some types of repairs or calibration changes. Baseline far field data is used for comparison with the final pass of far field data giving an indication of the net improvements made to the antenna through far field calibration.

After the far field calibration test of block is complete the data acquired during the test is received at the calibration computer block and processing moves on to defining and processing the model of the calibration setup including radar system calibration horn position. A model range is automatically defined block based at least in part on predetermined input such as input from a file or from a user block or other predetermined or default model range input in one example embodiment a default predetermined model range is used that is workable with a predetermined calibration horn location or set of locations such that no user input is necessarily needed. In another embodiment if the calibration horn is moved to a location different than the predetermined calibration horn location or set of locations the range for the model can be provided by a user or another source of information such as stored file.

For example in one embodiment a user enters a model range for the position of the calibration horn based on the current test setup prior to loading importing the data where the information comes from the previous tape measurement. During the data load the FFC tool solves for the theoretical phase and amplitude values over this inputted model range and then uses best match curve fitting block between the theoretical model and measured data to solve for the location of the calibration horn . Because best fit curve fitting is used with measured antenna data it may be preferable for this embodiment of this method that a certain number of TRM s roughly 50 in at least one embodiment but this is not limiting are properly calibrated to more accurately perform this curve fit. As will be appreciated the greater the percentage of properly calibrated TRM s the more accurate the curve it will tend to be. In one illustrative example a model range of 0.5 meters and 5 elements around the measured calibration horn position is used. If the calibration horn location is more precisely known this range can be tightened to decrease solver time.

Referring to more detail about the curve fitting and model solving block is performed by the FFC tool algorithms block of discussed further herein . Defining and processing the model also is further described beginning in block of described later herein . After the model is determined block it is verified block . This is all described further herein.

Referring again to during the far field calibration test block the existing hardware and software of the radar system is used to make measurements of amplitude and phase with the calibration antenna in a fixed position using any standard technique or method now known or developed in the future. For purposes of computation of results the analysis of the far field calibration test of block including verification of the model takes into account the known distance between the radiating elements . In at least one embodiment the algorithm used during far field testing solves for the variance between the set of model values for all TRMs and the measured values and chooses the calibration horn position that minimizes or at least decreases this variance. Providing a model range measured position a tolerance blocks gives a bound for the model solver methods. This is discussed further herein in connection with which is a phase model solver algorithm.

Advantageously knowledge as to the location of the calibration antenna can potentially allow for accuracy that can be an improvement over calibration with a built in calibration antenna as is done in some prior art systems. For example in one embodiment when the ATNAVICS phased array antenna is being calibrated locating the calibration antenna as described herein can provide an accuracy of about 1 dB for amplitude and about 5 degrees for phase. In addition avoidance of high incidence angles can be another advantage in the described location for the calibration antenna . This location allows measurements to be taken with coupling of the main beam of the both the calibration antenna as well as each element. At high incidence angles there is a large variation in measured data die to antenna nulls and side lobes.

Referring again to after the far field calibration test is run block its output information i.e. its far field data block is imported where the far field data e.g. FFC File is transferred from the SCDI computer to the FFC software resident on the calibration computer . The far field data from the far field calibration test is used to help provide an estimate as to the actual precise position of the calibration antenna where this estimate becomes part of the model defined in block and also to help establish whether the calibration data is consistent. A range for the model block also is computed and in at least some embodiments this range is computed based at least in part on user input although in at least some embodiments the computation of range for the model is based on one or more data files. After the model solve is complete i.e. after the precise location of the calibration antenna is known the amplitude and phase model values give the ideal amplitude and phase values and the model is generated block . The calibration values are then adjusted for each TRM by the difference between the model value and the measured value block . This information helps to determine whether the model can be verified block .

For example in one embodiment a model range is defined e.g. via received information blocks and e.g. via a stored file a previously stored model range or via user input for the position of the calibration horn based on the current test setup prior to loading the far field calibration data. During the data loading from the SCDI computer to the FFC software resident on the calibration computer the FFC tool solves for the theoretical phase and amplitude values over this model range and then uses best match curve fitting between the theoretical model and measured data to solve for the location of the calibration horn . Because best fit curve fitting is used with measured antenna data a certain number of TRMs for example in one embodiment about 50 of the TRMs may be required to be properly calibrated to accurately perform this curve fit. In one embodiment a model range of 0.5 meters and 5 elements around the measured position of the calibration horn is used. If the location of the calibration horn is more precisely known this range can be tightened to decrease solver time.

In one embodiment what happens prior to determining that the model is verified block is verifying that the calculated model values for amplitude and phase substantially follow the measured values excluding outliers . Thus methods are provided to help automatically exclude the outliers. Detection and correction of amplitude outliers is discussed further below in connection with .

As part of these file identification and data parsing blocks the FFC tool loads Far Field Test Data e.g. in a formatted form such as ASCII . The FFC tool parses the far field test data to identify which of sixteen 16 possible confirmations is associated with the data. In one embodiment the data after identification parsing blocks is then stored in a structured format. An illustrative example of a data structure used to store this data in accordance with one embodiment is 

After identifying the type of data block and before solving for phase block and amplitude block the FFC tool detects and if possible and or necessary corrects for potential phase and amplitude data outliers block without knowledge of the theoretical model. As explained further below the FFC tool in one embodiment uses curve fitting algorithms block of and block of to determine data trends and identify potential outliers. These methods in one embodiment rely on the some predetermined portion e.g. in one embodiment a majority or at least 50 of the phase and amplitude data being valid. The methods discussed herein will still work with fewer than 50 valid amplitude phase data but the resulting model may of course become less accurate the more the phase and or amplitude data becomes invalid as will be understood.

Referring again to phase and amplitude data which data is measured at the calibration antenna and or receiver and processed at radar computer as noted above is received block from the radar computer this is the same as the far field data of block in . For example in the array of having radiating elements through this phase and amplitude data corresponds to transmit and receive data for each antenna element in the array i.e. each TRM where the data is taken at a given azimuth and elevation and is run at several different frequencies.

This data corresponds to the phase and amplitude data associated with each radiating element at a given azimuth and elevation during transmit and receive for one or more operation frequencies. For example the aforementioned ATNAVICS system has four operating frequencies and these frequencies are used during testing and calibration. During the far field calibration test block of the calibration computer controls the radar system via radar computer the tx rx switch and the calibration antenna to provide a signal advantageously at one or more of the operating frequencies to the transmit and receive paths of the phased array antenna . Amplitude and phase data associated with providing this signal to the transmit and receive paths is acquired such as by acquiring signals at the calibration antenna and or the receiver then parsing processing this data to generate a plurality of sample sets of data H HN. In one exemplary embodiment two sample sets of phase and amplitude data are acquired H H but his is not limiting.

In block the files are identified. In one embodiment the data is part of different files for different combinations of mode M transmit tx or receive rx aperture A azimuth in az or elevation el and frequency F F F . In other embodiments all data could be written to the same file. Many combinations are possible as will be appreciated. The phase and amplitude data from the H and H sample sets is parsed block . In a further embodiment blocks and could be combined into a load and parse data block not shown in . Blocks and show in greater detail what is happening in block of . Referring again to a threshold setting block is applied to the parsed data to identify outliers in the amplitude data block . Data falling above the threshold levels for phase and amplitude is considered to be an outlier. An illustrative threshold setting for phase is 20 degrees and for amplitude is 5 dB as shown in for phase data discussed further herein but this is not limiting.

Similar to blocks of in for each set of data that is parsed block after the outliers in the amplitude and phase data are identified block a projected parabolic fit e.g. a best fit curve for the remaining data is generated block using for example methods known in the art. For example in one embodiment the position of the calibration horn is swept over the defined model range block of . For each value in the sweep a set of model amplitude and phase data is generated for each TRM frequency and aperture mode combination. The model data that best fits the measured data is selected as a model block and thus is used for generating the theoretical data. The outliers are identified in at least some embodiments based on the methods described previously in connection with .

Based on the resulting curves for amplitude and phase a model can be generated of the precise geometric location of the calibration antenna block and once this model is validated it can be used to compute theoretical amplitude and phase values that are usable to help calibrate the antenna help determine whether calibration is good or not etc.

Regarding identification of amplitude and phase outliers block of reference is now made briefly to which is a flowchart showing details of a method for detecting amplitude outliers usable with the top level process of and the more detailed process of discussed further below in accordance with one embodiment. Referring to the method takes the received amplitude data block and divides it into 3 sections of the array e.g. as shown in TRMS and but this is not limiting . Note that division into three sections is not limiting and other ways of dividing the array are of course possible. This division is due to the hybrid 2 packs creating a discontinuity in the amplitude data. For each respective subdivided section a polynomial fit is computed blocks respectively .

Then the delta is calculated between the respective polynomial fits and the actual data block . The delta is compared to a predetermined threshold to determine outlier TRMS block . For each respective subdivided section of the array the outliers are evaluated blocks respectively and replaced with values from the polynomial fits computed in blocks and respectively. Then the 3 subdivided sections with replaced values are combined for a new clean data set block . This clean data is used during the curve fitting and model solving of blocks of and for identifying amplitude outliers in block of discussed further herein .

For phase outliers is a flowchart showing details of a method for detecting phase outliers usable with the top level process of and the more detailed process of FIG. in accordance with one embodiment and are a pair of graphs showing an example of the results of phase outlier detection in accordance with the method of . As will be appreciated detecting phase outliers in some instances can be challenging due to the so called phase wrapping of the measured data. shows the steps used to determine phase outliers in accordance with one embodiment. The TRM s that are flagged as phase outliers are excluded when running the phase model solver of block of . Referring now to the flow chart when the phase data block is received the phase data is unwrapped block . While unwrapping a derivative of unwrapped phase is taken block . Based on that the method can detect jumps or discontinuous behavior in the unwrapped phase data block .

For example illustrate an example of phase data that indicates multiple modules with bad phase. shows measured phase along the x axis and shows the raw data with identified outliers marked as indicated with a circle some but not all of the outliers are labeled as Possible bad modules. For clarity only some of the outliers are specifically labeled herein although any outlier possibly could correspond to a bad module. The x axis in shows the attempted unwrapping of that phase with detected outliers marked. As can be appreciated the method for phase outlier detection and correction of could in some embodiments be modified to use a recursive phase unwrap algorithm which can help reduce a tendency to remove valid points as a result of a jump back from a bad point.

Referring again to at block the process for solving for the model which is described further herein in connection with blocks of and the projected parabolic fit block of also compares measured data for amplitude and phase with the theoretical data. The theoretical data for phase and amplitude is based on the phase distance and free space path loss which is all dependent upon the far field geometry e.g. as shown in .

Regarding theoretical phase first referring to the theoretical phase n at each super element is dependent on the distance between the horn and the array measured in wavelengths. Each wavelength equates to 2 radians therefore the expected phase is calculated by multiplying the distance in wavelengths by 2 . In equation form 

The distance x n can be calculated based on the element spacing and the array super element that is normal to the horn see . In equation form 

The phase delta is calculated by comparing the measured phase with the theoretical phase. 5 where n is the theoretical phase

Regarding theoretical amplitude the theoretical amplitude can be calculated as the summation of losses in the BF path. The relative gain between super elements is of concern not the absolute gain. An offset term is used to align the theoretical with measured however the geometric parameters will define the relative gain. In equation form 6 where L n is the total RF chain loss in dB

The total RF loss is a summation of multiple parameters including a 3 dB loss due to polarization loss between antennas circular to linear . 3 7 where L n is free space path loss dB 

The antenna gains are determined from normalized lookup tables. For example is a table of an exemplary Super Element pattern structure in accordance with one embodiment showing gain and phase. That is in the first column is angle second and third columns are gain and fourth and fifth columns are phase. is a plot of an exemplary Super Element Radiation Pattern in accordance with one embodiment. The incident angle to the antenna may be required to account for the tilt along the aperture under test of the calibration horn . In addition reference patterns for the calibration horn in use can also provide relevant information. provide respectively gain and phase patterns for exemplary calibration horns the brands used are the Narda 640 and the Pasternack PE9858 but these examples are not limiting .

The Taylor weighting term in equation 7 above provides amplitude weighting to achieve low sidelobe levels in receive mode specifically 30 dB sidelobe levels with 4 minor lobes of nearly constant amplitude. An illustrative example of amplitude Taylor weighting taken from measured data usable with at least some embodiments is shown in . The 2 pack loss accounts for the hybrid TRMs on the receive path. The amplitude delta is calculated by comparing the measured amplitude with the theoretical amplitude 9 

In addition to the above computations in one embodiment Amplitude and Phase Delta decision aids discussed further below help to show the difference between the theoretical model and measured values. When the phase solver discussed below is finished running the phase delta plots should look similar to the azimuth left plots in . Amplitude delis plots should look similar to the elevation right plots in . In these plots outliers can be seen but there is no general trending of the data. However the elevation plots in and the azimuth plots in are not normalized correctly. They show a tilt or bow trending of the measured data. In at least some embodiments the automatic portion of the tool performs most of the adjustments of the normalization issues. In at least some of these situations however some manual fine tuning adjustments may be necessary to manually adjust normalization issues and correct them before moving on with at least some of the LRU or calibration changes.

Referring again to after the projected parabolic fit block is generated based at least in part on detecting and correcting amplitude and phase outliers blocks of of as discussed herein phase block and amplitude block model solvers can be run. The aforementioned theoretical phase information is used see discussion of blocks above to further solve for the phase block . In addition in at least one embodiment a phase model solver process is used to solve for equation 2 above see .

Regarding the phase model solver block more detail is found in which is a flowchart showing a method of solving for unknowns in the phase model equation 2 in accordance with one embodiment. The phase model solver of is intended to solve automatically the unknowns of equation 2 . In an alternate embodiment if desired a user can manually enter values for some of the unknowns such as the distance y of the calibration horn the super element normal to the horn n and the phase offset or the User they can specify a search range to solve for these parameters. If manual inputs are selected the solver algorithm of is bypassed.

Assuming that the solver algorithm of is being used at block a phase model matrix is generated. Specifically based on a predetermined e.g. user specified range of possible horn distances and super elements normal to the horn a phase model matrix of all possible combination of y and n is generated. This results in a three dimensional matrix of size m n p. Where m is the number of y points n is the number of n points and p is the number of TRMs . In equation form 9 

Note at this point there is an assumed phase offset. After the Phase Model Matrix is created in block a Phase Delta Matrix M is created and a matrix of all possible delta values calculated. In equation form 10 

Next in blocks a statistical analysis is performed. In these blocks the FFC tool identifies at least some relevant statistical behaviors of the delta matrix computed in block to identify potential model solutions. Ideal model solutions in one embodiment preferably have substantially flat delta data across all TRM s i.e. low variance as analyzed in block and have a low statistical spread. The best fit model can be determined by comparing the deviation and the slope of the delta data. show example results of processing a delta matrix.

In the decision logic block statistical data is used to determine the ideal model based on the lowest standard deviation and the minimum slope curvature of the delta data. The method looks for overlap between the two statistical measurements and chooses the best fit horn s distance y and super element normal to the horn n . are exemplary graphs illustrating the overlap regions for the statistical data represented in . For this illustrative example there is overlap around y 8.4 m and around n 76.

Referring again to the flow chart of in block the phase offset is calculated. At this point the horn distance y and super element normal to the horn n have been determined. Next the phase offset determined by taking the median of the delta vector median 11 

In one embodiment two iterations of the method of are used to eliminate issues from phase wrapping. For example show example phase offset calculations. The bottom axes show the phase delta after the phase offset has been applied.

Referring again to another solver that can be run as part of the solving for model and verification of model blocks of and block of is the amplitude model solver block . In the amplitude model solver block a solution is found for amplitude model equation 6 discussed above . After calculating the position of the calibration ham using the Phase Model Solver block there are two unknowns from this equation that will be resolved as part of the amplitude model solver the amplitude offset A and the horn tilt .

Referring again to after the phase model solver block and amplitude model solver block are run at this point each data set array mode frequency has been processed. The next optional step in some embodiments can be detecting outliers in frequency data block . shows an illustrative example of a frequency outlier. In this example of F F and F are all showing roughly the same phase delta while F is significantly different. This type of result indicates that the 76th TRM phase measurement for F is an outlier. If the other frequency points are not failing the tool will not consider these outlier data points in the fault assessment. The tool factors in phase wrapping when performing frequency outlier detection.

Referring again to in at least some embodiments after the amplitude and phase model solvers are run a fault assessment block can be run. A fault in this example and context means that a TRM phase or amplitude delta does not fall within a predetermined threshold which can in some embodiments be a user defined threshold or other predetermined threshold. That is if the absolute value of the phase delta exceeds a predetermined phase threshold then a TRM phase fault is declared. If the absolute value of the amplitude delta exceeds a predetermined amplitude threshold then a TRM amplitude fault is declared. For example in one embodiment a table of TRMs is populated automatically with the corresponding delta values for each TRM and an indication as to which TRMs if any have a declared amplitude or phase fault. These faults can be communicated to a processor a user or to another entity helping to perform repairs in any way desired as will be appreciated such as via one of the reports a notification or alert etc.

Referring again to after fault assessment block is run and data processing is complete decision aids e.g. graphs plots can be generated as well block . For example in one embodiment decision aids are provided in the form of data plots graphs. The plots provide detailed insight into the radar system performance and provide an alternate way to verify data processing calculations. In one embodiment the decision aid plot can be tailored to a selected predetermined type of view such as Model Tune view Amplitude View Amplitude Delta View Phase Delta View Stability View and or Off Array View. These types of views are illustrative and not limiting. Within each view a choice can be made as to what set of data array mode frequency is plotted in the decision aid panel 

For example is an exemplary user interface display of graphs of model tune decision aids in accordance with one embodiment. The model tune view of is intended to visually confirm the accuracy of the theoretical model solver. The measured phase amplitude is compared with the theoretical phase amplitude data as a function of TRM Super Element SE selectable in lower right the SE is the element antenna fed by the TRM . This view can be used to confirm that the delta plots have a slope and offset close to zero. Based on what is in this view the model can be fine tuned if needed using the Model Tuner panel e.g. of a graphical user interface GUI presented to a user which enables adjustment of aspects of the model. Some or advantageously all of this fine tuning process also can be automated.

In the measured phase graph top left of the exemplary user interface display shows a theoretical model phase compared to measured phase as a function of TRM SE. The Measured amplitude graph top right shows a theoretical model amplitude compared to measured amplitude as a function of TRM SE. The Delta phase graph bottom left shows the delta between the theoretical and measured phase. The delta amplitude graph bottom right shows the delta between the theoretical and measured amplitude.

Referring again to all of the graphs of the exemplary user interface display show exemplary measured data for frequencies F F F and F. The graph in the top left view of the user interface display shows the azimuth array receive mode amplitude measurements. The graph in the top right view shows elevation array receive mode amplitude measurements. The graph in the bottom left view shows azimuth array transmit mode amplitude measurements. The graph in the bottom right view shows elevation array transmit mode amplitude measurements.

Another decision aid is shown in which is an exemplary user interface display of graphs of amplitude delta decision aids in accordance with one embodiment. The Amplitude Delta view shows the measured amplitude delta data for all 16 sets of data. Amplitude delta data is the difference between measured amplitude and model amplitude. This view can allow quicker verification whether automatic or manual of the model fidelity for all 16 sets of data as opposed to the Model Tune view which can in one embodiment only show a single set so this view provides similar benefits as the Amplitude view.

For example in the exemplary user interface display of the graphs show measured data for frequencies F F F and F. The top left graph shows the azimuth array receive mode amplitude deltas. The top right graph shows elevation array receive mode amplitude deltas. The bottom left graph shows azimuth array transmit mode amplitude deltas. The bottom right graph shows elevation array transmit mode amplitude deltas.

In the graphs show measured data for four frequencies F F F and F. The top left graph shows the azimuth array receive mode and phase deltas. The top right graph shows elevation array receive mode amplitude deltas. The bottom left graph shows the azimuth array transmit mode and phase deltas. The bottom right graph shows the elevation array transmit mode amplitude deltas.

In all of the graphs show stability for F F F and F. The top left graph shows azimuth array received mode stability. The top right graph shows elevation array received mode stability. The bottom left graph shows azimuth array transmit mode stability. The bottom right graph shows elevation array transmit mode stability.

The graphs in the user interface display of show measured of array data for F F F and F. The top left graph shows azimuth array receive mode amplitude. The top right graph shows elevation array receive mode amplitude. The bottom left graph shows the azimuth array transmit mode amplitude. The bottom right graph shows elevation array transmit mode amplitude.

The 2 Pack Evaluation amplitude delta plot of can be used to identify bad 2 packs . If all 16 cells for a given TRM have a significant amplitude error then the corresponding 2 pack likely needs replacing. In one example if only the receive portions show a significant amplitude error that or can possibly be improved through calibration adjustments. The 2 Pack. Evaluation phase delta plot of can be used to identify 2 packs that are poorly calibrated in phase. Note that amplitude calibration adjustments will impact phase calibration and preferably should be adjusted incrementally amplitude first .

In at least one embodiment some or all of the above described decision aids are used at least in part to help verify that the model is substantially accurate block of and block of .

One way of verifying the model for example includes graphical comparison using the decision aids and analysis of the data. This comparison is in some embodiments automated and in other embodiments it is manual. Thus in some embodiments systems methods and apparatuses are provided that generate a tool that a automatically calculates a calibration model and b includes a set of decision aids that help to automatically validate a calibration model. In various embodiments the validation can be automatic manual or a mix of automatic and manual. As will be appreciated if a system being calibrated has a large number of failures already present for example greater than 50 of elements failing but this is not limiting a user may need to review the calibration model and or validation and make manual corrections to the model if necessary. This is discussed further herein.

Referring briefly to these figures are part of a user interface display of graphs showing exemplary phase stability test data showing the difference between a first set of sample data H and a second set of sample data H in accordance with one embodiment. show the difference between two samples of the same data set for phase data for an exemplary dual aperture phased array antenna. As show the testing was done at four different frequencies F 9027 MHz F 9057 MHz F 9143 MHz and F 9180 MHz . Each respective graph shows an indication of the fidelity of the existing calibration data for the antenna array. The stability data in these exemplary graphs shows the antenna moving during windy conditions especially in which shows highly unstable data during windy conditions.

For example consider which is a graph of azimuth phase stability on the receive path i.e. for antenna in receive mode for the phased array antenna of with the second aperture covered with the RF absorber for two different samples of data H H. The expected data for phase in this example is a constant value to within 10 degrees unless the TRM that is associated with the phase also is failing in amplitude. For a TRM failing in amplitude unstable phase data is expected as phase data is difficult to measure accurately for very low amplitude signals and thus the results are unpredictable. As this graph shows the phase data between sample sets is relatively stable for frequencies F and F with the exception of a few outliers shown as discontinuities on the graph the outliers occurred due to TRMs falling in amplitude. The data at F for phase differs from the phase data at F but is itself stable as between the two samples of data except for the outliers. As will be appreciated an outlier in the data can be an indicator of a potential issue with one or more TRMs and not movement in the test equipment itself so the data is evaluated for trends that indicate such TRM issues. This is done at least two different times i.e. in accordance with sample sets H and H as discussed below. 

Consider also which are part of a user interface display of graphs showing exemplary model tune test data showing a curve fit of measured amplitude and phase data to theoretical amplitude and phase data in accordance with one embodiment showing unstable data in one plot. is a graph of measured phase graph with diamond dots and theoretical phase plain line i.e. the phase predicted by the model . is a delta phase graph for the data of showing the differences between the measured phase and theoretical phase across the array i.e. the TRMs along the x axis with suspected misaligned elements indicated.

As shows the measured phase tracks the theoretical i.e. predicted phase pretty closely except for several outliers. This comparison of also reinforces that the model is valid for predicting phase and that the predicted position of the calibration antenna is accurate. This comparison in also shows that the model solver has calculated a position for the calibration antenna close to where the calibration horn has been measured to be. also shows via the anomalies outliers in the delta phase data that certain radiating elements are likely misaligned as indicated in because the x axis shows the radiating element being tested in numerical order it is possible to determine from exactly which elements are misaligned.

Similarly is a graph of measured amplitude in blue and theoretical amplitude in green and is a delta amplitude graph for the data of showing the differences between the measured amplitude and theoretical amplitude across the array. In the example delta amplitude graph of the measured amplitude tracks the predicted amplitude fairly closely indicating that the model for amplitude is valid.

Referring again to if the calibration algorithm model for theoretical amplitude or theoretical phase results in a conclusion that the model is not verified is not a valid model i.e. the answer at block or block is No then as noted above the delta phase and or delta amplitude graph should reflect the inaccuracy because the measured data will consistently differ from the theoretical curve for that respective type of data by a great deal. For example if either or both of the model used to generate the predicted phase data which results in the delta phase graph of and the model used to generate the predicted amplitude data which result in the delta amplitude graph of were inaccurate the graph of delta data in and or would each show a line trending upwards or in some other way would show a delta data curve indicating that the measured data differs significantly from the predicted theoretical data as can be appreciated.

If at block or block the model cannot be verified an instruction is issued to indicate that the model is to be further adjusted e.g. automatically or in one embodiment manually adjusted block of block of . In one embodiment a manual model tuner process discussed farther below can be used to further adjust the model until it can be verified. In one embodiment the model tuner process is automated. For example during model adjustment whether automated or manual the solved location of the calibration antenna is adjusted. As adjustments are made the resulting changes in the corresponding model values and or the resulting differences between the model and measured values can be viewed and or analyzed dynamically. As show however the measured and theoretical data for the example array do not differ considerably for either amplitude or phase so the model in this illustrative example can be considered to be verified block answer Yes .

Referring to assume that the model that is generated block is not verified block block and manual adjustments are employed block block . For example in some instances such as the elevation phase values of and the azimuth amplitude values of some manual tuning may be needed using a model tuner panel displayed on a user interface. For these cases in at least some embodiments model tuner parameters are adjusted so that the amplitude and phase delta curves follow a zero delta line meaning the values show as little delta as possible from theoretical values excluding outliers. The following exemplary procedure explains how to use an exemplary FFC model tuner panel which can be incorporated into a user interface to improve the amplitude and phase model if needed. All panels and selections can for example be presented to a user on a user interface as will be appreciated but this is not limiting. Further in one embodiment all options also can be part of an automated process as will be appreciated.

2. Select the Mode and Array data set for the plot that may need adjustment if this step is being done manually a user can use the Data Select panel to make these selections .

3. Based at least in part on an analysis of the plot that may need adjustment if necessary adjust Distance from Array m . Increasing this value causes an increased bow raised curve in center for phase delta values in the center of the array.

4. Based at least in part on an analysis of the plot that may be needing adjustment if necessary adjust the Element Number of Cal. Increasing this value creates a clockwise tilt in phase values.

6. Repeat steps 2 through 5 for at least some of the remaining configurations that may need adjustment.

8. Using the Data Select panel Select the Mode and Array data set that may need adjustment if this step is being done manually a user can use the Data Select panel to make these selections .

9. Adjust the Tilt Cal Horn deg . Increasing this value creates a clockwise tilt in amplitude delta values.

It will be appreciated that the above manual or automated model tuner process can in some embodiments be implemented using a mix of automated and manual steps.

In one embodiment the determination at block that a model is verified block can be done by detecting whether the difference between the measured and theoretical data indicates that the FFC tool has come to a good solution. In at least some embodiments the standard fir a good solution is preferably a solution that minimizes or at least decreases variances between the theoretical data and the measured data. However as will be appreciated if an antenna has a lot of misaligned elements e.g. more than 50 misaligned then the solver might not be able to minimize or at least decrease variance to a degree sufficient for a given application. Consequently an instruction or other notification or report may be issued to a user telling the user to make manual adjustments to the model to minimize or at least decrease the variance as much as possible.

Thus in one embodiment the model solver makes its best attempt for an automatic determination of model validity based on variance and instructs a user if necessary to make manual adjustments block of block of . Then the model is re verified block . For example in block if an antenna being tested has a lot of element failures e.g. greater than a predetermined failure threshold such as greater than 50 failures such that it is not possible for measured data to come close to matching theoretical data smaller adjustments in the model can be made to attempt to theoretically show a best it curve for the antenna elements that do not appear to be failing or out of alignment. In one embodiment it may be possible to skip the verify model block if the calibration antenna has remained in the same spot from test to test without it moving i.e. such that the model is predicting the correct geometrical location for the calibration antenna but in at least some embodiments it is advantageous to verify the model during each far field calibration.

Referring briefly to if the model is verified at block a check is made to see if at least some hardware HW failures exist that may require correction block of similar to blocks and of . If failures that may require correction exist answer is yes at block then the hardware is replaced and the far field calibration test is re run block . Once the model is verified and no hardware failures that require correction are present as noted herein some hardware faults may be permitted to remain uncorrected in some instances then in some embodiments the model information is used to update the current beam steering tables blocks and using information on selected TRMs that are known to require an adjustment block . Reports e.g. the one or more reports that can make up the output data of are also generated.

Referring again to if the model is verified block answer is Yes same as block in answer is Yes TRM failures if any are identified block and then a check is made of the far field data to see whether it indicates that there are at least some hardware amplitude failures block that may require correction. Note that TRM failures do not always necessarily require correction although it is preferred in at least one embodiment that such failures are at least identified . In one embodiment this can be done by further analyzing the differences in data between the predicted amplitude and the measured amplitude at several frequencies in both transmit and receive modes for both azimuth and elevation apertures. For example are graphs that aggregate delta data i.e. data showing the difference between what the amplitude model predicts and what is measured for several antenna test configurations including transmit Tx and receive Rx modes azimuth and elevation apertures and 4 different frequencies F through F in accordance with one embodiment. For each frequency F through F in the graphs of it can be seen that with the exception of certain elements labeled in as having poor amplitude performance discussed further below the amplitude model used to generate each delta data graph is relatively consistent in each mode e.g. azimuth aperture receive mode elevation aperture receive mode azimuth aperture transmit mode elevation aperture transmit mode .

As noted above illustrate examples of hardware amplitude failures i.e. a Yes answer in block . In the outliers on the figure labeled as poor amplitude performance in show several of the antenna elements i.e. the TRMs shown along the x axis that exhibit poor amplitude performance where the performance is poor beyond a predetermined threshold which in the illustrative example of happens to be 5 dB . Note that per although additional elements also exhibit poor performance the ones labeled as poor amplitude performance are amongst the worst performing ones. If analysis shows that poor amplitude performance is seen in the amplitude delta data block answer is yes then an instruction is issued to replace at least a predetermined portion of the associated TRM s block and then to rerun the far field calibration test where the associated TRM s can be found by looking along the x axis where the number along the x axis where the failure data is corresponds to the number of the TRM that could be replaced.

Some of the common failures that can result in faulty antenna components include but are not limited to defective TRMs defective TRM output switches damaged signal cables and or defective radiating elements . If there are a large number of repairs that may be needed such repairs advantageously can be incorporated incrementally with a phase calibration performed for each hardware change but this is not required. This incremental repair and calibration process is done because in at least some instances FFC curve fitting as done in block can degrade with antenna calibration. In one embodiment amplitude deltas greater than 3 dB indicate a failure. This is the same threshold used during calibration at the Near Field Range. If all failures cannot be resolved through receive amplitude calibration adjustment further antenna repairs may be needed and further inspection for other issues e.g. damaged cables or components etc. should be done.

As will be appreciated amplitude failures that appear only in one aperture could be caused by a bad radiator panel radiating element damaged TRM output cable or a faulty 2 type 2 pack switch. In the illustrative example of the PAR antenna for single aperture failures first determine if the TRM belongs to a 2 type TRMs or or 1 type TRMs . If the TRM belongs to a 1 2 pack the issue is likely a radiator panel issue that cannot be fixed at site. If the TRM belongs to a 2 type 2 pack. and check the Off Array plot for the TRM . If there is a high measured amplitude for that TRM in the off array the cause is likely an output switch that is either fully or partially stuck to that array. The corrective action is to replace the corresponding 2 pack . If not the issue is likely a radiator panel or output cable issue that cannot be fixed at site.

If there is a failure in only one mode e.g. for only receive mode the issue might be resolved in the next FFC pass through calibration. For TRMs failing in receive only compare the receive amplitude calibration with the corresponding amplitude delta using the FFC tool . If the amplitude calibration factor can be adjusted to make a particular failure pass within the failure threshold the TRM is not replaced because it will be adjusted in the next FFC phase during amplitude calibration. Note that decreasing the amplitude calibration factor will increase the amplitude by an equal amount and that in one embodiment the amplitude calibration factor has a range of 0 31.5 dB.

It should be noted that TRMs located near the edges of the array can have more attenuation already in place due to the Taylor weighting curve. This typically leaves more room to increase the receive amplitude for TRMs near the edges of the array . If amplitude calibration will not resolve the failure the issue should be resolved through 2 pack replacement. Losses seen only for only transmit or only for receive would likely be caused by a faulty TRM . For this case losses are relative to other TRMs and the only path unique for one mode that can cause this issue is internal to the TRM . The 2 pack corresponding to the faulty TRM should be replaced in this case.

The steps of are re run as many times as needed to find and if needed replace all amplitude failures i.e. in one embodiment preferably until the answer at decision block is No . shows more detail about the data processing for FFC tool of that is repeated for all passes. Note that the decision block looks for an answer to the question of whether there are hardware failures that require correction. It should be understood that in at least some embodiments not all amplitude failures whether detected or not need to be corrected before the ITC calibration method of is able to move beyond this decision block to blocks and or discussed further herein . For example if sufficient replacement modules are not available to perform all repairs one option is to replace only some but not all of the amplitude failures. In further embodiments it might be advantageous to ensure that at least some of the changes relating to amplitude e.g. replacement of at least some failing modules are performed finished prior to phase calibration.

Referring again to at step once there are no more amplitude failures that are able to be corrected or that may be required to be corrected i.e. the answer is no far field data is checked to see if it shows that there is good amplitude calibration block . In one embodiment the standard for determining whether amplitude calibration is good involves using a special weighting for lowering antenna sidelobes where there is a weighting applied for receive mode only. The weighting is performed through use of a tapered attenuation with increased attenuation for TRMs near the edges of the array . An illustrative example of usable weighting is the aforementioned Taylor weighting but the described embodiments are not so limited to this type of weighting.

In one embodiment amplitude is calibrated for receive mode only to apply Taylor weighting. These calibration factors are not frequency independent. This means that each TRM has two amplitude calibration factors one for the azimuth receive configuration and one for the elevation receive configuration. Amplitude calibration is applied via the TRM adjustable attenuator each of which has a range of 0 31.5 dB in 0.5 dB steps. TRMs are automatically selected for calibration by entering an Amplitude Threshold at a user interface in the FFC tool an example threshold is 3 dB but this is not limiting . If a TRM fails this threshold for at least one of the four frequencies the amplitude calibration factor is adjusted by the amplitude delta averaged across the four frequencies. Using the FFC tool the two calibration files Beam pos table 1.o and Beam pos table 2.o are generated using these adjustments. Loading these files into a directory accessible to the radar computer and if necessary restarting the radar system loads the new amplitude calibration values into the system.

As will be appreciated it is possible to have a TRM that is considered a good or working TRM but still not have good amplitude calibration i.e. the answer at block is no in certain situations such as if there is too much amplitude. If there is too much amplitude an attenuation value along the transmit or receive path in the radar system can be adjusted block update adjust amplitude calibration to bring the amplitude down to a level that matches the amplitude in the model. That is if amplitude calibration is not good block answer is no for a given element signal path compensation values are calculated for each element that is determined to be poorly calibrated e.g. by comparing the difference between the model value and the measured value and these signal path compensation values are used in block to update the amplitude calibration information for that element. In one embodiment amplitude calibration information is updated for at least some or all of the TRMs that fail a predetermined threshold e.g. 5 dB for amplitude 20 degrees for phase .

The update amplitude calibration of block receives certain inputs representing either information that it updates replaces or information that is affected by updating as shown in . One input it receives referred to in as selected TRMs block corresponds to information as to which TRM s has have a calibration that requires adjustment of some kind for whatever reason may be necessary. Another input corresponds to the block labeled current amplitude calibration files block which refers to the preexisting calibration files that were used when the far field calibration test was run at block . The pre existing calibration files in one embodiment contain all the coefficients for all TRMS both failing and passing and the coefficients associated with the TRMs that are determined to be failing are changed. Those pre existing calibration files are stored as noted above so as to be accessible to the radar system especially its radar computer . As noted previously whenever the phased array is in actual use the calibration files that are stored to be accessible to the radar system are what the radar system uses during operation. These preexisting amplitude calibration files termed current amplitude calibration files in will be updated and or replaced as applicable with new information that correctly sets the amplitude calibration block . In one embodiment the values for some or all of the failing TRMs are updated.

In at least some embodiments another amplitude calibration pass e.g. proceeding from block back through to block etc. might be needed if expected results are not achieved i.e. calibrated TRMs are not within a predetermined limit e.g. 3 dB in receive mode . One possible issue that might appear in this phase is a problem with the TRM adjustable attenuator . Other tests can be used to identify adjustable attenuator problems especially if adjustable attenuator shills are not consistent across TRMs . If there is a problem with a TRM s adjustable attenuator the corresponding 2 pack should be replaced and the FFC method of should attempt to locate further hardware amplitude failures block .

After the updated calibration data step block is complete new calibration files are generated block reports are generated blocks and when all calibration is good in and block in e.g. any one or more of the reports in and these new calibration files are provided e.g. via file transfer protocol FTP back to the phased array system block where they are stored in a location accessible to the radar computer and the process restarts at block re running and updating the model and or the calibration files as needed until it is complete block .

Returning to the check for good amplitude calibration block if the calibration is good i.e. answer at block is yes then the method proceeds to a check for whether phase calibration is good block . If phase calibration is good a final report is generated block and then the far field calibration process is complete block and no re running or updating of calibration files occurs. Once the process has reached block there is no need to generate a new set of calibration files or adjust the model so the calibration files that were used to run the test i.e. the pre existing current calibration files can remain in the location accessible to the radar computer . Thus reaching block indicates the end of the far field calibration method of .

If however the check of good phase calibration block shows that phase calibration is not good answer at block is no then the method proceeds to block update phase calibration. The standard for whether phase calibration is good in one embodiment involves checking the difference between the model phase and measured phase. For example in one embodiment the FFC tool looks for phase deltas outside of the range of 20 degrees. are graphs showing exemplary phase model delta data for different measurement configurations that use the 20 degree threshold for the test setup of in accordance with one embodiment.

In at least one embodiment phase calibration factors are unique for all combinations of aperture mode and frequency giving a total of 16 phase calibration factors for each TRM . Phase calibration is applied by the TRM phase shifters which in one exemplary embodiment have a range of 0 357.1875 degrees in 2.8125 degree steps. TRMs are selected for phase by entering a phase threshold at a user interface in the FFC tool an example threshold is 20 degrees but this is not limiting . The phase calibration performed in the Near Field Range uses a phase threshold of 20 degrees. Advantageously the correct radar system frequencies are selected in the FFC tool prior to generating these files. The FFC tool assumes that the original radar system calibration was performed using the correct radar system frequencies.

Using the FFC tool the calibration files Beam pos table 1.o Beam pos table 2.o and Coupling data.o are generated using these adjustments. Loading these files onto the radar computer and restarting the radar system loads the new phase calibration values into the system. If there are any existing amplitude failures at this point due for example to faulty radiator panels or lack of replacement parts then the TRM s affected by those failures are likely to not reliably calibrate for configurations failing in amplitude due to low SNR.

Referring again to during the check of phase calibration at block one example of a situation that could result in or cause a bad phase calibration could occur if a TRM is previously replaced i.e. back in block and its phase performance differs significantly e.g. having a phase difference greater than a predetermined limit such as 20 degrees from that of the other modules. Another example of a situation that could cause or result in bad phase calibration could be if a rigid cable in the radar system has a bend or kink in it. Other conditions can result in a phase calibration not meeting the standard such as certain environmental conditions e.g. high winds that might cause movement of the phased array antenna during test. Some extreme weather conditions may also be a factor for some types of phased array antennas as will be understood.

Another phase calibration pass through blocks through might be needed if expected results are not achieved i.e. previously calibrated. TRMs also passing in amplitude are not phase calibrated within a predetermined threshold such as 20 degrees . Similar to amplitude calibration an issue that might appear in this set of passes through the blocks through is a problem with a TRM phase shifter . Again other tests such as radar system phase attenuation tests as are known in the art can be used at this point to identify problems in the phase shifters . For example when plotted an exemplary phase attenuation test displays 118 degree and 239 degree adjustable phase shifts. If there is a problem with a TRM s phase shifter the corresponding 2 pack should be replaced and the FFC process should return to block .

Referring again to the update phase calibration of block receives certain inputs representing either information that it updates replaces or information that is affected by updating as shown in . One input it receives referred to in as selected TRMs block corresponds to information as to which TRM s has have a calibration that requires adjustment of some kind for whatever reason may be necessary. Another input corresponds to the block labeled current phase calibration files block which refers to the pre existing calibration files that were used when the far field calibration test was run at block . The pre existing calibration files in one embodiment contain all the coefficients for all TRMS both failing and passing and the coefficients associated with the TRMs that are determined to be failing are changed. As with the amplitude calibration files the pre existing phase calibration files are stored so as to be accessible to the radar system especially its radar computer . As noted previously whenever the phased array is in actual use the calibration files that are stored to be accessible to the radar system are what the radar system uses during operation. These pre existing phase calibration files termed current phase calibration files in will be updated and or replaced as applicable with new information that correctly sets the phase calibration block . In one embodiment some or all of the values for failing TRMs are updated.

After the updated calibration data step block is complete new phase calibration files are generated block reports are generated block and these new phase calibration files are provided e.g. via file transfer protocol FTP hack to the phased array system block where they are stored in a location accessible to the radar computer and the process restarts at block re running and updating the model and or the calibration files as needed until it is complete block .

Based on the computations in blocks through sufficient information is generated to help determine whether the model of the calibration setup including precise location of the calibration antenna is valid block . The FFC tool. generates one or more decision aid plots as described herein. Referring to the information that is generated to help determine whether the model is valid along with the decision aid information is provided as one or more reports block of and block of see e.g. the reports of output data in . The one or more reports are combined with imported far field data block of . Model validation is completed prior to generation of the reports see . and is provided to the verify model decision block of .

Regarding the reports that can be generated in various embodiments known types of data export options allow FFC data to be saved to different types of files for reports archiving and data sharing. Data export options can be used during one or more of the multiple process steps of calibration to reproduce the decision aids that were used during the calibration process. For example in one illustrative report calibration data is exported in tabular form to a spreadsheet such as a MICROSOFT EXCEL spreadsheet where the spreadsheet data includes receive mode attenuation and bore site phase shifter commands. In a farther illustrative report the spreadsheet data can include but is not limited to some or all of 

Referring to the verify model step block is identical to block of . If the calibration data along with the other information described above shows that the model is not verified then manual model adjustments are made block and the model is regenerated block . If the model is verified answer at block is yes then if necessary amplitude and or phase calibration is adjusted block and another data pass begins at block of calibration is adjusted and the beam steering stables are updated block to reflect the calibration changes. The beam steering tables as is understood in the art may contain the amplitude calibration values and the phase commands for some or all of the beam angles. The phase calibration values are applied to all of the phase commands. When the beam is pointed to bore site straight forward the phase commands are equal to the phase calibration values. In one embodiment the phase commands in the beam steering tables are updated only if a TRM is failing the phase tolerance 0 20 degrees . If the TRM is failing phase tolerance the phase commands are shifted by the phase delta difference between model phase and measured phase phase wrapped to the range of 0 360 degrees .

One input to the update beam steering tables block is the selected TRMs block in blocks and in which correspond to information indicating based on the phase and amplitude data of block which TRM s have a beam steering table that requires adjustment of some kind. Selected TRMs come from failures that are identified by the FFC tool see block in . The current i.e. pre existing beam steering table block for those respective TRM s is accessed and updated as needed with updated beam steering information based on the verified model.

After the beam steering tables are updated block they are updated and exported to the radar computer where they are used during operation calibration of the radar system .

In the Figures of this application in some instances a plurality of system elements or method blocks may be shown as illustrative of a particular system element and a single system element or method block may be shown as illustrative of a plurality of a particular systems elements or method blocks. It should be understood that showing a plurality of a particular element or block is not intended to imply that a system or method implemented in accordance with one or more of the described embodiments must comprise more than one of that element or block nor is it intended by illustrating a single element or block that the described embodiments are limited to embodiments having only a single one of that respective elements or blocks. In addition the total number of elements or blocks shown for a particular system element or method is not intended to be limiting. As will be appreciated the number of a particular system element or method blocks can in some instances be selected to accommodate the particular user needs.

Also in the Figures for drawings flow charts and or flow diagrams illustrating methods or processes rectangular blocks are processing blocks that can represent one or more instructions or groups of instructions such as computer software instructions. The diamond shaped blocks are decision blocks that one or more instructions or groups of instructions such as computer software instructions that affect the execution of the computer software instructions represented by the processing blocks. Alternatively the processing and decision blocks represent actions performed by functionally equivalent circuits such as a digital signal processor circuit a microcontroller or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Further actions and blocks can be implemented using combinations of hardware and software.

The drawings flow charts block diagrams and flow diagrams provided herein do not depict the syntax of any particular programming language. Rather the drawings flow charts block diagrams and flow diagrams flow illustrate the functional information that may be usable to fabricate circuits and or to generate computer software to perform the processing. Note that many routine program elements such as initialization of loops and variables and the use of temporary variables are not shown. Unless otherwise indicated herein the particular sequence of steps described is illustrative only and can be varied without departing from the spirit of the described embodiments. Thus unless otherwise stated the steps described herein are unordered meaning that when possible the steps can be performed in any convenient or desirable order.

Additionally the software used to implement all or part of the described embodiments may be embodied in a computer program product that includes a computer useable medium. For example such a computer usable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a memory card a CD ROM a DVD ROM a universal serial bus USB storage device an optical storage device a computer diskette and the like having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog signals.

In describing and illustrating the embodiments herein in the text and in the figures specific terminology e.g. language phrases product brands names etc is used for the sake of clarity. These names are provided by way of example only and are not limiting. The embodiments described herein are not limited to the specific terminology so selected and each specific term at least includes all grammatical literal scientific technical and functional equivalents as well as anything else that operates in a similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose. Furthermore in the illustrations Figures and text specific names may be given to specific features elements circuits modules tables software modules systems etc. Such terminology used herein however is for the purpose of description and not limitation.

Although the embodiments included herein have been described and pictured in an advantageous form with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and combination and arrangement of parts may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the described embodiments.

Having described and illustrated at least some the principles of the technology with reference to specific implementations it will be recognized that the technology and embodiments described herein can be implemented in many other different forms and in many different environments. The technology and embodiments disclosed herein can be used in combination with other technologies. In addition all publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

