---

title: Network-assisted fabric pairing
abstract: Systems and methods for joining a device to a fabric using an assisting device include an indication to add a joining device to a fabric. If the joining device supports network-assisted fabric pairing, a first connection is established between a commissioning device and the assisting device. The assisting device also connects to a joining device. Through the assisting device, the commissioning device and the joining device establish a communication channel over which fabric credentials may be sent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590976&OS=09590976&RS=09590976
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09590976
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 061 593 filed Oct. 8 2014 entitled FABRIC NETWORK which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to systems devices methods and related computer program products for smart buildings including the smart home. More particularly this patent specification relates to adding devices to a preexisting fabric using devices already residing on the network.

Some homes today are equipped with smart home networks to provide automated control of devices appliances and systems such as heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems lighting systems alarm systems and home theater and entertainment systems. Smart home fabrics may include one or more networks of devices interconnected to automation functions within the home. For example a person may input a desired temperature and a schedule indicating when the person is away from home.

In some scenarios it may be desirable to add new devices to the networks and or fabrics in the smart home. However in some scenarios the devices being added have limited connectivity before being connected to other devices. For example some joining devices may join to devices that are manually set to a network created by the joining devices. For example a smartphone may be manually set to connect to the joining device on a WiFi network generated by the joining device. However such manual setting of connecting networks use interactions with users that may decrease user experience and or increase complexity of the pairing process.

A summary of certain embodiments disclosed herein is set forth below. It should be understood that these aspects are presented merely to provide the reader with a brief summary of these certain embodiments and that these aspects are not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. Indeed this disclosure may encompass a variety of aspects that may not be set forth below.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide methods and systems for enabling devices to join devices to network and or fabrics consisting of several networks and adding the devices to the network and or fabrics. In some embodiments these devices may be joined to a network by connecting to another device e.g. smartphone by having the other device change networks to a network hosted by the joining device. However in such embodiments the other device has to change networks which may be tedious annoying and or inefficient process that reduces possible automation of the joining process.

One or more specific embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below. These described embodiments are only examples of the presently disclosed techniques. Additionally in an effort to provide a concise description of these embodiments all features of an actual implementation may not be described in the specification. It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it should be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but may nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure.

When introducing elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure the articles a an and the are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements. Additionally it should be understood that references to one embodiment or an embodiment of the present disclosure are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to network assisted fabric pairing of devices using a network to as an extension of a fabric pairing infrastructure to provide simplified pairing of additional devices to the fabric using the network. In short a fabric device joining a network which supports network assisted pairing may be able to form a connection via the network with a fabric device currently paired to the fabric when the fabric device supports network assisted pairing. Using this connection the joining device may receive network provisioning information and or other information over this connection. Enabling the user to add devices within a single network provides a simplified in band pairing mechanism that allows devices to be paired to a fabric without manually switching networks e.g. WiFi on a device thereby reducing or eliminating user interaction used to join the joining device to the fabric. This mechanism may be particularly advantageous when the joining device is not capable of automatically switching between networks in response to third party instructions used to commission additional fabric devices. In other words if the joining device is a hazard detection device that includes a version of software that does not enable the device to switch WiFi network connections based on commands from a smartphone without causing the smartphone to join the device s own WiFi network the device may instead connect to a different device already paired to a fabric using a network connection.

As used herein network refers to a data network communication that is wireless or wired in character. For example the network may include an 802.15.4 network an 802.11 network or other suitable network types for communicatively coupling two or more devices. A fabric is a group of paired devices or nodes which can communicate with each other securely without a connection to the cloud service. In some embodiments all nodes on the same fabric belong to the same structure and are paired to the same account. A fabric structure is the physical environment in which a fabric enabled product is installed e.g. a home or apartment . In some embodiments a structure may only contain at most one fabric. A fabric pairing process is the method by which a new device receives network provisioning information joins or creates its structure s fabric and pairs with its user s account via a service. In some embodiments the fabric pairing process is performed completely using fabric protocol interactions. Network provisioning is the process by which a fabric device receives the information used to join the networks present in its structure. In some embodiments this process is performed prior to fabric joining. Fabric joining is the process by which a device is provisioned with information used to securely communicate with other nodes on an existing fabric. In some embodiments fabric joining is performed after network provisioning and before account pairing. Service provisioning and account pairing is the process by which a device is registered to an account via a cloud service. In some embodiments the account pairing enables the user to remotely interact with the device such as a remote interaction using a mobile device application. In some embodiments the account pairing and service provisioning process also includes provisioning any information into the device that may be used to identify authenticate and connect to the service.

Additional device pairing is a fabric pairing process where a new device is installed in a structure with an existing fabric. In this case devices on the existing fabric may assist in the pairing process to reduce the amount of user interaction to simplify the process from the user perspective. In some embodiments some of the devices on the existing fabric may sleepy devices that periodically enter a low power state. In such embodiments at least one device on the existing fabric is awake during this process for the new device to automatically receive network and fabric provisioning information from the devices already on the existing fabric. Thus in some embodiments the process may be delayed if no devices are awake. In other embodiments the joining device a service or some other device may awaken at least one of the devices already on the existing network from a lower power state to initiate the pairing process.

As used herein the device joining the network may be referred to as the joining device. Also as used herein a fabric commissioner is a device that orchestrates the fabric pairing process for the joining device via the fabric profiles for network fabric and service provisioning. In some embodiments the commissioner may include a smart device e.g. phone or tablet computer a device already on the fabric or some other device that may be used to control and orchestrate the joining process. As used herein an assisting device refers to an existing paired fabric device that assists the joining device in the pairing process to reduce the amount of user interaction.

It should be appreciated that smart home environments may refer to smart environments or smart networks for any building type such as single family houses duplexes townhomes multi unit apartment buildings hotels retail stores office buildings industrial buildings and any building that may include one or more smart devices.

It is to be further appreciated that while the terms user customer installer homeowner occupant guest tenant landlord repair person user and similar terms may be used to refer to a person or persons interacting with a smart device within the network via a user interface these references are by no means to be considered as limiting the scope of the present teachings with respect to the person or persons who are performing such actions. Thus for example the terms user customer purchaser installer subscriber and homeowner may often refer to the same person in the case of a single family residential dwelling because the head of the household is often the person who makes the purchasing decision buys the unit and installs and configures the units and is also one of the users of the units. However in other scenarios such as a landlord tenant environment the customer may be the landlord with respect to purchasing the unit the installer may be a local apartment supervisor a first user may be the tenant and a second user may again be the landlord with respect to remote control functionality. While the identity of the person performing the action may be germane to a particular advantage provided by one or more of the embodiments for example the password protected network commissioning functionality described herein may be particularly advantageous where the landlord holds the sole password and can control network additions such identity should not be construed in the descriptions that follow as necessarily limiting the scope of the present teachings to those particular individuals having those particular identities.

With the foregoing in mind illustrates an example of a smart home environment also referred to as a smart network within which one or more of the devices methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. In some embodiments the devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure .

The depicted structure includes multiple rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes various devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that may integrate seamlessly with each other with a central server with a cloud computing system or some combination of these to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats hereinafter referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected multi sensing hazard detection units hereinafter referred to as smart hazard detectors one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected doorbell devices hereinafter referred to as smart doorbells and one or more intelligent network connected door locks hereinafter referred to as smart door locks . According to embodiments the smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly. The smart hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupants go and come . The smart door locks may detect and toggle between a locked and unlocked condition for doors in the home detect a person s approach to or departure from a respective door detect whether a door is open or closed or other suitable controls associated with a smart door lock.

In some embodiments the smart home environment of further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches hereinafter referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces hereinafter referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Further in some embodiments the smart home environment of includes multiple intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances hereinafter referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems window sensors security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances may be made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the smart hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the smart hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart door lock the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment may be modular and may be incorporated into older and new houses. For example in some embodiments the devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensors processors user interfaces the batteries and other functional components of the devices.

Many different commercial and functional possibilities for provisioning maintenance and upgrade are possible. For example after years of using any particular head unit a user may be able to buy a new version of the head unit and simply plug it into the old docking station. There are also many different versions for the head units such as low cost versions with few features and then a progression of increasingly capable versions up to and including sophisticated head units with a large number of features. Thus it should be appreciated that the various versions of the head units may be interchangeable with any of them working when placed into any docking station. This can advantageously encourage sharing and re deployment of old head units for example when an important high capability head unit such as a hazard detector is replaced by a new version of the head unit then the old head unit can be re deployed to a backroom or basement etc. According to embodiments when first plugged into a docking station the head unit can ask the user by 2D LCD display 2D 3D holographic projection voice interaction etc. a few simple questions such as Where am I and the user can indicate living room kitchen and so forth.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information then may be used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering. Such data may include sun location information temperature dew point soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can also enable a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control the smart thermostat and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some embodiments the device may be connected to the smart network directly or through additional networks e.g. WiFi that are connected to the smart network using one or more devices e.g. an edge router . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant may use their registered device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use their registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering devices the smart home environment may make inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some instances guests desire to control the smart devices. For example the smart home environment may receive communication from an unregistered mobile device of an individual inside of the home where said individual is not recognized as an occupant of the home. For example a smart home environment may receive communication from a mobile device of an individual who is known to be or who is registered as a guest or determined to be on a common network e.g. SSID WiFi network as the smart devices.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the devices and other smart devices collectively referred to as the smart devices may be capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using any of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. .

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart device via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a central server or a cloud computing system . The central server or cloud computing system can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For some embodiments a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from the central server or cloud computing system to the smart devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

As discussed below the smart devices may be combined to create a mesh network. In some embodiments this mesh network may include spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the central server or cloud computing system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and may communicate using wireless protocols that requires very little power such as ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. Furthermore some low power nodes may also have a relatively low amount of memory to reduce power consumption. Thus in some embodiments these low power nodes utilize streamlined messages and data formats of data. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power listening only nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or the central server or cloud computing system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able to send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system . According to embodiments the mesh network enables the central server or cloud computing system to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives described herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening . Accordingly users other devices and the central server or cloud computing system can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the central server or cloud computing system .

An example of a low power node is a smart nightlight . In addition to housing a light source the smart nightlight houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart nightlight is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart nightlight is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to some embodiments the smart nightlight includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to the central server or cloud computing system .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the smart hazard detectors . These smart hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore smart hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and the central server or cloud computing system such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments these low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and may function as tripwires for an alarm system in the smart home environment. For example in the event a perpetrator circumvents detection by alarm sensors located at windows doors and other entry points of the smart home environment the alarm could be triggered upon receiving an occupancy motion heat sound etc. message from one or more of the low powered and spokesman nodes in the mesh network. For example upon receiving a message from a smart nightlight indicating the presence of a person the central server or cloud computing system or some other device could trigger an alarm provided the alarm is armed at the time of detection. Thus the alarm system could be enhanced by various low powered and spokesman nodes located throughout the smart home environment . In this example a user could enhance the security of the smart home environment by buying and installing extra smart nightlights .

In some embodiments the mesh network can be used to automatically turn on and off lights as a person transitions from room to room. For example the low powered and spokesman nodes e.g. devices and detect the person s movement through the smart home environment and communicate corresponding messages through the mesh network. Using the messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall switches to automatically provide light as the person moves from room to room in the smart home environment . Further users may provide pre configuration information that indicates which smart wall plugs provide power to lamps and other light sources such as the smart nightlight . Alternatively this mapping of light sources to wall plugs can be done automatically e.g. the smart wall plugs detect when a light source is plugged into it and it sends a corresponding message to the central server or cloud computing system . Using this mapping information in combination with messages that indicate which rooms are occupied the central server or cloud computing system or some other device activates and deactivates the smart wall plugs that provide power to lamps and other light sources so as to track the person s movement and provide light as the person moves from room to room.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency or an emergency drill. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user may provide a map of the best exit route depending on availability of the route. In some situations the route may be blocked by a hazard and an alternate route may be illuminated and indicated if available. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information the central server or cloud computing system or some other device could automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the smart hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm the central server or cloud computing system or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. nightlights wall switches wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Also included and illustrated in the smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the ROOMBA and SCOOBA products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant a particular one of the service robots can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal comfort area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the occupant s immediate space at a comfortable temperature wherever that occupant may be located in the home. This can be contrasted with conventional wall mounted room thermostats which have the more attenuated objective of keeping a statically defined structural space at a comfortable temperature. According to one embodiment the localized thermostat service robot is configured to move itself into the immediate presence e.g. within five feet of a particular occupant who has settled into a particular location in the home e.g. in the dining room to eat their breakfast and read the news . The localized thermostat service robot includes a temperature sensor a processor and wireless communication components configured such that control communications with the HVAC system either directly or through a wall mounted wirelessly communicating thermostat coupled to the HVAC system are maintained and such that the temperature in the immediate vicinity of the occupant is maintained at their desired level. If the occupant then moves and settles into another location e.g. to the living room couch to watch television the localized thermostat service robot proceeds to move and park itself next to the couch and keep that particular immediate space at a comfortable temperature.

Technologies by which the localized thermostat service robot and or the larger smart home system of can identify and locate the occupant whose personal area space is to be kept at a comfortable temperature can include but are not limited to RFID sensing e.g. person having an RFID bracelet RFID necklace or RFID key fob synthetic vision techniques e.g. video cameras and face recognition processors audio techniques e.g. voice sound pattern vibration pattern recognition ultrasound sensing imaging techniques and infrared or near field communication NFC techniques e.g. person wearing an infrared or NFC capable smartphone along with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence techniques that draw useful conclusions from the sensed information e.g. if there is only a single occupant present in the home then that is the person whose immediate space should be kept at a comfortable temperature and the selection of the desired comfortable temperature should correspond to that occupant s particular stored profile .

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby to the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

The above described human facing and away functionalities can be provided without limitation by multiple distinct service robots having respective dedicated ones of such functionalities by a single service robot having an integration of two or more different ones of such functionalities and or any combinations thereof including the ability for a single service robot to have both away and human facing functionalities without departing from the scope of the present teachings. Electrical power can be provided by virtue of rechargeable batteries or other rechargeable methods with illustrating an exemplary out of the way docking station to which the service robots will automatically dock and recharge its batteries if needed during periods of inactivity. Preferably each service robot includes wireless communication components that facilitate data communications with one or more of the other wirelessly communicating smart home sensors of and or with one or more other service robots e.g. using Wi Fi ZigBee Z Wave 6LoWPAN etc. and one or more of the smart home devices of can be in communication with a remote server over the Internet. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith each service robot can be configured to communicate directly with a remote server by virtue of cellular telephone communications satellite communications 3G 4G network data communications or other direct communication method.

Provided according to some embodiments are systems and methods relating to the integration of the service robot s with home security sensors and related functionalities of the smart home system. The embodiments are particularly applicable and advantageous when applied for those service robots that perform away functionalities or that otherwise are desirable to be active when the home is unoccupied hereinafter away service robots . Included in the embodiments are methods and systems for ensuring that home security systems intrusion detection systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental control systems for example occupancy sensitive automated setback thermostats that enter into a lower energy using condition when the home is unoccupied are not erroneously triggered by the away service robots.

Provided according to some embodiments is a home automation and security system e.g. as shown in that is remotely monitored by a monitoring service by virtue of automated systems e.g. cloud based servers or other central servers hereinafter central server that are in data communications with one or more network connected elements of the home automation and security system. The away service robots are configured to be in operative data communication with the central server and are configured such that they remain in a non away service state e.g. a dormant state at their docking station unless permission is granted from the central server e.g. by virtue of an away service OK message from the central server to commence their away service activities. An away state determination made by the system which can be arrived at i exclusively by local on premises smart device s based on occupancy sensor data ii exclusively by the central server based on received occupancy sensor data and or based on received proximity related information such as GPS coordinates from user smartphones or automobiles or iii any combination of i and ii can then trigger the granting of away service permission to the away service robots by the central server. During the course of the away service robot activity during which the away service robots may continuously detect and send their in home location coordinates to the central server the central server can readily filter signals from the occupancy sensing devices to distinguish between the away service robot activity versus any unexpected intrusion activity thereby avoiding a false intrusion alarm condition while also ensuring that the home is secure. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith the central server may provide filtering data such as an expected occupancy sensing profile triggered by the away service robots to the occupancy sensing nodes or associated processing nodes of the smart home such that the filtering is performed at the local level. Although somewhat less secure it would also be within the scope of the present teachings for the central server to temporarily disable the occupancy sensing equipment for the duration of the away service robot activity.

According to another embodiment functionality similar to that of the central server in the above example can be performed by an on site computing device such as a dedicated server computer a master home automation console or panel or as an adjunct function of one or more of the smart home devices of . In such an embodiment there would be no dependency on a remote service provider to provide the away service OK permission to the away service robots and the false alarm avoidance filtering service or filter information for the sensed intrusion detection signals.

According to other embodiments there are provided methods and systems for implementing away service robot functionality while avoiding false home security alarms and false occupancy sensitive environmental controls without the requirement of a single overall event orchestrator. For purposes of the simplicity in the present disclosure the home security systems and or occupancy sensitive environmental controls that would be triggered by the motion noise vibrations or other disturbances of the away service robot activity are referenced simply as activity sensing systems and when so triggered will yield a disturbance detected outcome representative of the false trigger for example an alarm message to a security service or an arrival determination for an automated setback thermostat that causes the home to be heated or cooled to a more comfortable occupied setpoint temperature . According to one embodiment the away service robots are configured to emit a standard ultrasonic sound throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard ultrasonic sound and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard ultrasonic sound is detected. For other embodiments the away service robots are configured to emit a standard notification signal throughout the course of their away service activity the activity sensing systems are configured to detect that standard notification signal and the activity sensing systems are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that standard notification signal is detected wherein the standard notification signal comprises one or more of an optical notifying signal an audible notifying signal an infrared notifying signal an infrasonic notifying signal a wirelessly transmitted data notification signal e.g. an IP broadcast multicast or unicast notification signal or a notification message sent in an TCP IP two way communication session .

According to some embodiments the notification signals sent by the away service robots to the activity sensing systems are authenticated and encrypted such that the notifications cannot be learned and replicated by a potential burglar. Any of a variety of known encryption authentication schemes can be used to ensure such data security including but not limited to methods involving third party data security services or certificate authorities. For some embodiments a permission request response model can be used wherein any particular away service robot requests permission from each activity sensing system in the home when it is ready to perform its away service tasks and does not initiate such activity until receiving a yes or permission granted message from each activity sensing system or from a single activity sensing system serving as a spokesman for all of the activity sensing systems . One advantage of the described embodiments that do not require a central event orchestrator is that there can optionally be more of an arms length relationship between the supplier s of the home security environmental control equipment on the one hand and the supplier s of the away service robot s on the other hand as it is only required that there is the described standard one way notification protocol or the described standard two way request permission protocol to be agreed upon by the respective suppliers.

According to still other embodiments the activity sensing systems are configured to detect sounds vibrations RF emissions or other detectable environmental signals or signatures that are intrinsically associated with the away service activity of each away service robot and are further configured such that no disturbance detected outcome will occur for as long as that particular detectable signal or environmental signature is detected. By way of example a particular kind of vacuum cleaning away service robot may emit a specific sound or RF signature. For one embodiment the away service environmental signatures for each of multiple known away service robots are stored in the memory of the activity sensing systems based on empirically collected data the environmental signatures being supplied with the activity sensing systems and periodically updated by a remote update server. For another embodiment the activity sensing systems can be placed into a training mode for the particular home in which they are installed wherein they listen and learn the particular environmental signatures of the away service robots for that home during that training session and thereafter will suppress disturbance detected outcomes for intervals in which those environmental signatures are heard.

For still another embodiment which is particularly useful when the activity sensing system is associated with occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment rather than a home security system the activity sensing system is configured to automatically learn the environmental signatures for the away service robots by virtue of automatically performing correlations over time between detected environmental signatures and detected occupancy activity. By way of example for one embodiment an intelligent automated nonoccupancy triggered setback thermostat such as the Nest Learning Thermostat can be configured to constantly monitor for audible and RF activity as well as to perform infrared based occupancy detection. In particular view of the fact that the environmental signature of the away service robot will remain relatively constant from event to event and in view of the fact that the away service events will likely either a themselves be triggered by some sort of nonoccupancy condition as measured by the away service robots themselves or b occur at regular times of day there will be patterns in the collected data by which the events themselves will become apparent and for which the environmental signatures can be readily learned. Generally speaking for this automatic learning embodiment in which the environmental signatures of the away service robots are automatically learned without requiring user interaction it is more preferable that a certain number of false triggers be tolerable over the course of the learning process. Accordingly this automatic learning embodiment is more preferable for application in occupancy sensitive environmental control equipment such as an automated setback thermostat rather than home security systems for the reason that a few false occupancy determinations may cause a few instances of unnecessary heating or cooling but will not otherwise have any serious consequences whereas false home security alarms may have more serious consequences.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located in the mesh network of the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system are used to provide a personal smart alarm clock for individual occupants of the home. For example user occupants can communicate with the central server or cloud computing system via their mobile devices to access an interface for the smart alarm clock. There occupants can turn on their smart alarm clock and input a wake time for the next day and or for additional days. In some embodiments the occupant may have the option of setting a specific wake time for each day of the week as well as the option of setting some or all of the inputted wake times to repeat . Artificial intelligence will be used to consider the occupant s response to these alarms when they go off and make inferences about the user s preferred sleep patterns over time.

According to embodiments the smart device in the smart home environment that happens to be closest to the occupant when the occupant falls asleep will be the device that transmits messages regarding when the occupant stopped moving from which the central server or cloud computing system will make inferences about where and when the occupant prefers to sleep. This closest smart device will as be the device that sounds the alarm to wake the occupant. In this manner the smart alarm clock will follow the occupant throughout the house by tracking the individual occupants based on their unique signature which is determined based on data obtained from sensors located in the smart devices. For example the sensors include ultrasonic sensors passive IR sensors and the like. The unique signature is based on a combination of walking gait patterns of movement voice height size etc. It should be appreciated that facial recognition may also be used.

According to an embodiment the wake times associated with the smart alarm clock are used by the smart thermostat to control the HVAC in an efficient manner so as to pre heat or cool the house to the occupant s desired sleeping and awake temperature settings. The preferred settings can be learned over time such as by observing which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to before going to sleep and which temperature the occupant sets the thermostat to upon waking up.

According to an embodiment a device is positioned proximate to the occupant s bed such as on an adjacent nightstand and collects data as the occupant sleeps using noise sensors motion sensors e.g. ultrasonic IR and optical etc. Data may be obtained by the other smart devices in the room as well. Such data may include the occupant s breathing patterns heart rate movement etc. Inferences are made based on this data in combination with data that indicates when the occupant actually wakes up. For example if on a regular basis the occupant s heart rate breathing and moving all increase by 5 to 10 twenty to thirty minutes before the occupant wakes up each morning then predictions can be made regarding when the occupant is going to wake. Other devices in the home can use these predictions to provide other smart home objectives such as adjusting the smart thermostat so as to pre heat or cool the home to the occupant s desired setting before the occupant wakes up. Further these predictions can be used to set the smart alarm clock for the occupant to turn on lights etc.

According to embodiments technologies including the sensors of the smart devices located throughout the smart home environment in combination with rules based inference engines or artificial intelligence provided at the central server or cloud computing system are used to detect or monitor the progress of Alzheimer s disease. For example the unique signatures of the occupants are used to track the individual occupants movement throughout the smart home environment . This data can be aggregated and analyzed to identify patterns indicative of Alzheimer s. Oftentimes individuals with Alzheimer s have distinctive patterns of migration in their homes. For example a person will walk to the kitchen and stand there for a while then to the living room and stand there for a while and then back to the kitchen. This pattern will take about thirty minutes and then the person will repeat the pattern. According to embodiments the remote servers or cloud computing architectures analyze the person s migration data collected by the mesh network of the smart home environment to identify such patterns.

Although in some examples provided herein the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from the smart devices of smart home environment of it should be appreciated that the devices and services platform may communicate with and collect data from multiple smart home environments across the world. For example the central server or cloud computing system can collect home data from the devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices can routinely transmit home data or can transmit home data in specific instances e.g. when a device queries the home data . Thus the devices and services platform may routinely collect data from homes across the world. As described the collected home data includes for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data etc.

The central server or cloud computing architecture can further provide one or more services . The services can include e.g. software updates customer support sensor data collection logging weather information account information remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . Data associated with the services can be stored at the central server or cloud computing system and the central server or the cloud computing system can retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time e.g. at regular intervals upon receiving a request from a user etc. .

As illustrated in an embodiment of the extensible devices and services platform includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine can include engines configured to receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

The derived data can be highly beneficial at a variety of different granularities for a variety of useful purposes ranging from explicit programmed control of the devices on a per home per neighborhood or per region basis for example demand response programs for electrical utilities to the generation of inferential abstractions that can assist on a per home basis for example an inference can be drawn that the homeowner has left for vacation and so security detection equipment can be put on heightened sensitivity to the generation of statistics and associated inferential abstractions that can be used for government or charitable purposes. For example processing engine can generate statistics about device usage across a population of devices and send the statistics to device users service providers or other entities e.g. that have requested or may have provided monetary compensation for the statistics .

According to some embodiments the home data the derived home data and or another data can be used to create automated neighborhood safety networks. For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture receives data indicating that a particular home has been broken into is experiencing a fire or some other type of emergency event an alarm is sent to other smart homes in the neighborhood. In some instances the central server or cloud computing architecture automatically identifies smart homes within a radius of the home experiencing the emergency and sends an alarm to the identified homes. In such instances the other homes in the neighborhood do not have to sign up for or register to be a part of a safety network but instead are notified of an emergency based on their proximity to the location of the emergency. This creates robust and evolving neighborhood security watch networks such that if one person s home is getting broken into an alarm can be sent to nearby homes such as by audio announcements via the smart devices located in those homes. Additionally or alternatively if a neighbor s hazard detector detect smoke neighboring houses may activate irrigation systems to reduce likelihood of a spread of fire. It should be appreciated that this safety network can be an opt in service and that in addition to or instead of the central server or cloud computing architecture selecting which homes to send alerts to individuals can subscribe to participate in such networks and individuals can specify which homes they want to receive alerts from. This can include for example the homes of family members who live in different cities such that individuals can receive alerts when their loved ones in other locations are experiencing an emergency.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by running water. Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about water usage in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what water sounds like and when it is running in the home. According to one embodiment to map the various water sources of the home upon detecting running water the central server or cloud computing architecture sends a message an occupant s mobile device asking if water is currently running or if water has been recently run in the home and if so which room and which water consumption appliance e.g. sink shower toilet etc. was the source of the water. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to determine the signature or fingerprint of each water source in the home. This is sometimes referred to herein as audio fingerprinting water usage. 

In one illustrative example the central server or cloud computing architecture creates a signature for the toilet in the master bathroom and whenever that toilet is flushed the central server or cloud computing architecture will know that the water usage at that time is associated with that toilet. Thus the central server or cloud computing architecture can track the water usage of that toilet as well as each water consumption application in the home. This information can be correlated to water bills or smart water meters so as to provide users with a breakdown of their water usage.

According to some embodiments sound vibration and or motion sensing components of the smart devices are used to detect sound vibration and or motion created by mice and other rodents as well as by termites cockroaches and other insects collectively referred to as pests . Based on the detected sound vibration and or motion the central server or cloud computing architecture makes inferences about pest detection in the home and provides related services. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can run programs algorithms that recognize what certain pests sound like how they move and or the vibration they create individually and or collectively. According to one embodiment the central server or cloud computing architecture can determine the signatures of particular types of pests.

For example in the event the central server or cloud computing architecture detects sounds that may be associated with pests it notifies the occupants of such sounds and suggests hiring a pest control company. If it is confirmed that pests are indeed present the occupants input to the central server or cloud computing architecture confirms that its detection was correct along with details regarding the identified pests such as name type description location quantity etc. This enables the central server or cloud computing architecture to tune itself for better detection and create signatures or fingerprints for specific types of pests. For example the central server or cloud computing architecture can use the tuning as well as the signatures and fingerprints to detect pests in other homes such as nearby homes that may be experiencing problems with the same pests. Further for example in the event that two or more homes in a neighborhood are experiencing problems with the same or similar types of pests the central server or cloud computing architecture can make inferences that nearby homes may also have such problems or may be susceptible to having such problems and it can send warning messages to those homes to help facilitate early detection and prevention.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform expose a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs may be coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with the central server or the cloud computing system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example APIs may allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by the central server or the cloud computing system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

For example third parties can develop programs and or applications such as web or mobile apps that integrate with the central server or the cloud computing system to provide services and information to users. Such programs and application may be for example designed to help users reduce energy consumption to preemptively service faulty equipment to prepare for high service demands to track past service performance etc. or to perform any of a variety of beneficial functions or tasks now known or hereinafter developed.

According to some embodiments third party applications make inferences from the home data and the derived home data such inferences may include when are occupants home when are they sleeping when are they cooking when are they in the den watching television and when do they shower. The answers to these questions may help third parties benefit consumers by providing them with interesting information products and services as well as with providing them with targeted advertisements.

In one example a shipping company creates an application that makes inferences regarding when people are at home. The application uses the inferences to schedule deliveries for times when people will most likely be at home. The application can also build delivery routes around these scheduled times. This reduces the number of instances where the shipping company has to make multiple attempts to deliver packages and it reduces the number of times consumers have to pick up their packages from the shipping company.

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an instance in which an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to their trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when they are home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. In yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine may integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits may be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available properly anonymized for processing in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

By way of introduction illustrates an example of a device e.g. thermostat and or hazard detector that may that may communicate with other like devices within a home environment. In one embodiment the device may include one or more sensors a user interface component a power supply e.g. including a power connection and or battery a network interface a processor and the like. Particular sensors user interface components and power supply configurations may be the same or similar within each device . However it should be noted that in some embodiments each device may include particular sensors user interface components power supply configurations and the like based on a device type or model.

The sensors in certain embodiments may detect various properties such as acceleration temperature humidity water supplied power proximity external motion device motion sound signals ultrasound signals light signals fire smoke carbon monoxide global positioning satellite GPS signals radio frequency RF other electromagnetic signals or fields or the like. As such the sensors may include temperature sensor s humidity sensor s hazard related sensor s or other environmental sensor s accelerometer s microphone s optical sensors up to and including camera s e.g. charged coupled device or video cameras active or passive radiation sensors GPS receiver s radiofrequency identification detector s and or other suitable sensors. While illustrates an embodiment with a single sensor many embodiments may include multiple sensors. In some instances the device may includes one or more primary sensors and one or more secondary sensors. Here the primary sensor s may sense data central to the core operation of the device e.g. sensing a temperature in a thermostat or sensing smoke in a smoke detector while the secondary sensor s may sense other types of data e.g. motion light or sound which can be used for energy efficiency objectives security objectives safety objectives and or smart operation objectives.

One or more user interface components in the device may receive input from the user and or present information to the user. The received input may be used to determine one or more settings. In certain embodiments the user interface components may include a mechanical or virtual component that responds to the user s motion. For example the user may mechanically move a sliding component e.g. along a vertical or horizontal track or rotate a rotatable ring e.g. along a circular track or move an object e.g. finger across onto a touchpad of the device . Such motions may correspond to a setting adjustment which can be determined based on an absolute position of a user interface component or based on a displacement of a user interface components e.g. adjusting a set point temperature by 1 degree F. for every 10 rotation of a rotatable ring component . Physically and virtually movable user interface components can allow a user to set a setting along a portion of an apparent continuum. Thus the user may not be confined to choose between two discrete options e.g. as would be the case if up and down buttons were used but can quickly and intuitively define a setting along a range of possible setting values. For example a magnitude of a movement of a user interface component may be associated with a magnitude of a setting adjustment such that a user may dramatically alter a setting with a large movement or finely tune a setting with s small movement.

The user interface components may also include one or more buttons e.g. up and down buttons a keypad a number pad a switch a microphone and or a camera e.g. to detect gestures . In some embodiments the user interface component may include a click and rotate annular ring component that may enable the user to interact with the component by rotating the ring e.g. to adjust a setting and or by clicking the ring inwards e.g. to select an adjusted setting or to select an option . In another embodiment the user interface component may include a camera that may detect gestures e.g. to indicate that a power or alarm state of a device is to be changed . In some instances the device may have one primary input component which may be used to set a plurality of types of settings. The user interface components may also be configured to present information to a user via e.g. a visual display e.g. a thin film transistor display or organic light emitting diode display and or an audio speaker.

The power supply component may include a power connection and or a local battery. For example the power connection may connect the device to a power source such as a line voltage source. In some instances an AC power source can be used to repeatedly charge a e.g. rechargeable local battery such that the battery may be used later to supply power to the device when the AC power source is not available.

The network interface may include a component that enables the device to communicate between devices. In one embodiment the network interface may communicate using an efficient network layer as part of its Open Systems Interconnection OSI model. In one embodiment the efficient network layer which will be described in more detail below with reference to may enable the device to wirelessly communicate IPv6 type data or traffic using a RIPng routing mechanism and a DTLS security scheme. As such the network interface may include a wireless card or some other transceiver connection.

The processor may support one or more of a variety of different device functionalities. As such the processor may include one or more processors configured and programmed to carry out and or cause to be carried out one or more of the functionalities described herein. In one embodiment the processor may include general purpose processors carrying out computer code stored in local memory e.g. flash memory hard drive random access memory special purpose processors or application specific integrated circuits combinations thereof and or using other types of hardware firmware software processing platforms. Further the processor may be implemented as localized versions or counterparts of algorithms carried out or governed remotely by central servers or cloud based systems such as by virtue of running a Java virtual machine JVM that executes instructions provided from a cloud server using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX or similar protocols. By way of example the processor may detect when a location e.g. a house or room is occupied up to and including whether it is occupied by a specific person or is occupied by a specific number of people e.g. relative to one or more thresholds . In one embodiment this detection can occur e.g. by analyzing microphone signals detecting user movements e.g. in front of a device detecting openings and closings of doors or garage doors detecting wireless signals detecting an IP address of a received signal detecting operation of one or more devices within a time window or the like. Moreover the processor may include image recognition technology to identify particular occupants or objects.

In certain embodiments the processor may also include a high power processor and a low power processor. The high power processor may execute computational intensive operations such as operating the user interface component and the like. The low power processor on the other hand may manage less complex processes such as detecting a hazard or temperature from the sensor . In one embodiment the low power processor may wake or initialize the high power processor for computationally intensive processes.

In some instances the processor may predict desirable settings and or implement those settings. For example based on the presence detection the processor may adjust device settings to e.g. conserve power when nobody is home or in a particular room or to accord with user preferences e.g. general at home preferences or user specific preferences . As another example based on the detection of a particular person animal or object e.g. a child pet or lost object the processor may initiate an audio or visual indicator of where the person animal or object is or may initiate an alarm or security feature if an unrecognized person is detected under certain conditions e.g. at night or when lights are off .

In some instances devices may interact with each other such that events detected by an instructed device influences actions of an instructed device. For example an instructed device can detect that a user has pulled into a garage e.g. by detecting motion in the garage detecting a change in light in the garage or detecting opening of the garage door . The instructed device can transmit this information to an instructed device via the efficient network layer such that the instructed device can e.g. adjust a home temperature setting a light setting a music setting and or a security alarm setting. As another example an instructed device can detect a user approaching a front door e.g. by detecting motion or sudden light pattern changes . The instructed device may e.g. cause a general audio or visual signal to be presented e.g. such as sounding of a doorbell or cause a location specific audio or visual signal to be presented e.g. to announce the visitor s presence within a room that a user is occupying .

By way of example the device may include a thermostat such as a Nest Learning Thermostat. Here the thermostat may include sensors such as temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like such that the thermostat may determine present climate conditions within a building where the thermostat is disposed. The power supply component for the thermostat may be a local battery such that the thermostat may be placed anywhere in the building without regard to being placed in close proximity to a continuous power source. Since the thermostat may be powered using a local battery the thermostat may minimize its energy use such that the battery is rarely replaced.

In one embodiment the thermostat may include a circular track that may have a rotatable ring disposed thereon as the user interface component . As such a user may interact with or program the thermostat using the rotatable ring such that the thermostat controls the temperature of the building by controlling a heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC unit or the like. In some instances the thermostat may determine when the building may be vacant based on its programming. For instance if the thermostat is programmed to keep the HVAC unit powered off for an extended period of time the thermostat may determine that the building will be vacant during this period of time. Here the thermostat may be programmed to turn off light switches or other electronic devices when it determines that the building is vacant. As such the thermostat may use the network interface to communicate with a light switch device such that it may send a signal to the light switch device when the building is determined to be vacant. In this manner the thermostat may efficiently manage the energy use of the building.

Keeping the examples of in mind illustrates an example wireless mesh network that may be employed to facilitate communication between some of the devices such as those described above. As shown in a thermostat may have a direct wireless connection to a plug interface which may be wirelessly connected to a hazard detection unit and to a light switch . In the same manner the light switch may be wirelessly coupled to a portable electronic device and an appliance . The appliance may just be coupled to a pool heater and the portable electronic device may just be coupled to an irrigation system . The irrigation system may have a wireless connection to an entryway interface device .

Generally the network may be part of an Open Systems Interconnection OSI model as depicted in . The OSI model illustrates functions of a communication system with respect to abstraction layers. That is the OSI model may specify a networking framework or how communications between devices may be implemented. In one embodiment the OSI model may include six layers a physical layer a data link layer a network layer a transport layer a platform layer and an application layer . Generally each layer in the OSI model may serve the layer above it and may be served by the layer below it.

Keeping this in mind the physical layer may provide hardware specifications for devices that may communicate with each other. As such the physical layer may establish how devices may connect to each other assist in managing how communication resources may be shared between devices and the like.

The data link layer may specify how data may be transferred between devices. Generally the data link layer may provide a way in which data packets being transmitted may be encoded and decoded into bits as part of a transmission protocol.

The network layer may specify how the data being transferred to a destination node is routed. The network layer may also interface with a security protocol in the application layer to ensure that the integrity of the data being transferred is maintained.

The transport layer may specify a transparent transfer of the data from a source node to a destination node. The transport layer may also control how the transparent transfer of the data remains reliable. As such the transport layer may be used to verify that data packets intended to transfer to the destination node indeed reached the destination node. Example protocols that may be employed in the transport layer may include Transmission Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP .

The platform layer may establish connections between devices according to the protocol specified within the transport layer . The platform layer may also translate the data packets into a form that the application layer may use. The application layer may support a software application that may directly interface with the user. As such the application layer may implement protocols defined by the software application. For example the software application may provide serves such as file transfers electronic mail and the like.

The network layer may route data between the devices using a communication protocol based on Internet Protocol version 6 IPv6 . As such each device may include a 128 bit IPv6 address that may provide each device with a unique address to use to identify itself over the Internet a local network or a fabric overlaying a group of networks or the like. In some embodiments the network layer may identify a protocol e.g. RIPng that determines how data is routed between the devices. As illustrated in using one or more layers information may be exchanged between devices and .

In some embodiments a joining device may join a fabric using a commissioner via various communication paths e.g. 802.11 802.15.4 a combination of networks . Regardless of how communication is established between the joining device and its commissioner there is a defined set of interactions which are performed network provisioning fabric joining and service provisioning and account pairing. In some embodiments these interactions are restricted to a specific order such as network provisioning before fabric joining and fabric joining before service provisioning and account pairing. In some embodiments some joining devices may only perform some of the interactions. For example if the joining device is a radiator box that is provisioned for network and fabric access but is not provisioned for service access or explicitly paired to the user s account.

In some embodiments the joining device may be paired to a fabric using assistance from a mobile device. The mobile device may employ a mobile application that is primarily responsible for acting as a commissioner and provisioning joining devices. In certain embodiments any device on the network may act as the commissioner. In some embodiments some devices e.g. thermostats support commissioning only to pair with subordinate devices e.g. radiator boxes . In certain embodiments some devices e.g. hazard detectors devices may provide a commissioner with network and fabric provisioning information but they do not themselves commission new devices.

As previously discussed in some scenarios a process for pairing additional devices to a fabric may include user input to cause a commissioner to connect to the joining device s self hosted WiFi access point using a mobile app. In such embodiments the user manually disconnects from their current WiFi network to connect to the self hosted AP and the user manually rejoins their previous network once the new device has been provisioned. Therefore such joining processes use substantial user interaction.

To free users from manually switching networks during the additional device pairing process a new mechanism is used to securely connect the joining device to fabric devices via one or more networks e.g. 802.15.4 so that network provisioning may occur via this connection. While the fabric devices and the joining device may rendezvous via WiFi in some embodiments the fabric devices would disconnect from the home s WiFi network to rendezvous with the joining device disrupting regular service for the user and potentially creating a more invasive experience for the user. Instead in network assisted fabric joining a commissioner connects to the joining device through more than one network by connecting to an assisting device in a first network e.g. 802.11 and relying on the assisting device to enable the commissioner to establish a tunnel to the joining device through another network e.g. 802.15.4 . Thus as will be discussed below the assisting device provides connectivity to the joining device through another network.

In some embodiments the indication to add the joining device includes an indication of a device type of the joining device . Using the device type the commissioner determines whether the joining device supports the pairing process . If the device type cannot support the pairing process the commissioner continues with a switching pairing process that uses switching of a network to which the commissioner is connected block . If the device type supports the pairing process the commissioner obtains fabric service configuration information from the service to be used in pairing the joining device to the service and or the fabric block . The fabric service configuration information includes any information which may be helpful in pairing the joining device to the fabric and the remote service. For example the fabric service configuration information may include a service node ID for the joining device e.g. extended unique identifier EUI 64 format a set of certificates for the service a globally unique account id associated with the user s account a DNS host name identifying an entry point for the remote service and an opaque account pairing token that may be used to pair the joining device to the remote service.

The commissioner may also receive information to identify the joining device block . For example the commissioner may prompt the user to input a code associated with and or found on the device and or scan a code e.g. QR code found on the device to verify that the correct joining device is being paired to the fabric and or the service. The commissioner determines whether a device identifier is valid block . For example the commissioner may determine whether a valid check digit exists or the identifier is an expected value. If the device identifier is not valid the commissioner indicates failure block . For example the commissioner may display a notification to the user that the identifier is not valid and re requests entry of the identifier.

If the identifier is valid the commissioner determines whether a fabric exists for a structure in which the joining device is to be added block . Such determination may include requesting the user to input a structure for the joining device and the commissioner determines whether a fabric exists for the structure. If no fabric exists then the network assisted pairing process ends since no assisting device exists block . If a fabric exists the commissioner receives a response from the service. The response may include information about the fabric such as device types software versions and node identifiers for the devices in the fabric as well as a fabric identifier for the fabric.

If a pre existing fabric exists the commissioner determines whether the devices in the fabric include non sleepy devices i.e. always on devices that do not toggle into a relatively low power mode block . If there is at least one non sleepy device the commissioner selects an always on device as the assisting device block . If all devices in the fabric are sleepy devices the commissioner determines whether a sleepy device can be awoken by the service block . If so the commissioner instructs the service to awaken the device as the assisting device block . If no devices may be awoken by the service the commissioner instructs the user to manually waken a device on the fabric block . For example the commissioner may instruct the user to press a button on the assisting device .

Once an assisting device has been selected and or awoken the commissioner establishes a secure connection to the assisting device using the fabric authentication previously received by the commissioner in block block . In some embodiments the secure session may be established using Certificate Authenticated Session Establishment CASE protocol as taught in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 508 933 titled Authenticated Session Establishment which was filed on Oct. 7 2014 and which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The commissioner then stores the resulting session key and assisting device node identifier. In some embodiments the commissioner uses a device control profile as discussed below to employ connection monitoring on the connection between the commissioner and the assisting device . Via the secure connection the commissioner extracts network and fabric configuration from the assisting device block . For example the commissioner may use network provisioning and fabric provisioning profiles to obtain this information. For example the commissioner may use Network and Fabric Provisioning Profiles as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 061 593 titled Fabric Network which was filed on Oct. 8 2014 and which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In certain embodiments the commissioner may receive a pre share key PSK for the service or may rely on provisioning support to change the network handling to allow one to query a provisioning PSK. The commissioner also instructs the assisting device to place the network e.g. 802.15.4 in a joinable mode and listen for rendezvous connections on an unsecured port block . In some embodiments the commissioner then disables the device control profile connection monitor.

In some embodiments the commissioner causes the joining device to be awoken and or placed in a communicative state block . For example in some embodiments the commissioner may instruct a user to manually awaken the joining device and or send a signal over a predefined port to awaken the device from a relatively low power state. As discussed below the commissioner connects to the joining device as remote passive rendezvous RPR client and initiates a RPR using the device control profile block . In some embodiments connecting to the joining device includes receiving a notification from the assisting device that the assisting device has rendezvoused with the joining device and opened an RPR tunnel from the joining device to the commissioner . The communications between the joining device and the commissioner will occur through the tunnel as forwarded by the assisting device and its separate connections to the joining device and the commissioner . Furthermore the connection may include the commissioner enabling device control profile connection monitoring between the joining device and the commissioner .

After the rendezvous tunnel has been established the commissioner attempts to establish a secure fabric session with the joining device using a pairing code that is the device identifier is derived from the device identifier or corresponds to the device identifier block . In some embodiments the secure fabric session may be established using Password Authenticated Session Establishment PASE protocol as taught in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 508 933 titled Authenticated Session Establishment which was filed on Oct. 7 2014 and which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The commissioner determines whether the joining device is authentic such that the PASE connection has been established successfully block . If the joining device is not authenticated the commissioner causes the termination of the tunnel and connection monitoring block . In other words the RPR session is terminated and the commissioner will attempt to restart the RPR session using stored fabric and node information previously stored. In some embodiments the commissioner may notify of such failures block . For example the commissioner may display a failure to a user to indicate the failure.

If the device authenticates the commissioner determines device capabilities and software versions before instructing the device to join a network block . For example the commissioner may perform a fabric identify request to determine a device type and software version for the joining device . The commissioner then verifies that the device type of the joining device matches the selected device type used for the pairing block . If the device types do no match the commissioner may notify the user of the failure and terminate the process block . In some embodiments the commissioner may restart the process at block . If the selected device types match the commissioner may also determine whether the software version of the commissioner supports network assisted fabric pairing block . If the version of software on the joining device does not support network assisted fabric pairing and or needs to be updated the commissioner causes the software version to be updated block . For example the commissioner may cause the joining device to initiate an update and or indicate to a user that the joining device should be updated. Once the software version is appropriate for the fabric pairing the commissioner may determine whether the joining device has WiFi capability block . If the device has WiFi capability the commissioner causes the joining device to add a WiFi network associated with the fabric block . In other words the joining device stores network credentials e.g. SSID and password for the WiFi network. The commissioner also causes the joining device to initiate a connectivity test block . For example the commissioner may instruct the joining device to connect to the WiFi network perform a DNS lookup and establish a test TCP connection to an Internet based test server. The commissioner determines whether the connectivity test has passed block . If the test failed the commissioner and or the joining device may request new WiFi credentials block then reattempt the WiFi connection. In some embodiments the joining device may reattempt to connect before requesting new WiFi credentials. If the test is passed the commissioner may request that the joining device enable the WiFi network block .

Regardless of WiFi capabilities the commissioner causes the joining device to add a personal area network PAN block . The PAN credentials and name to be joined have been previously retrieved from the assisting device and are shared with the joining device by the commissioner . After the joining device has the PAN credentials the commissioner causes the joining device to enable the PAN network block . In other words the PAN is the secure connection version of the unsecured connection e.g. via 802.15.4 over which the communication between the commissioner and the joining device . If the secure re connection between the joining device and the commissioner fails block the failsafe is triggered either through the unsecure port connection or automatically after a period of time elapses after the joining device attempts to join the PAN block .

Once the joining device has joined the PAN using the previously retrieve fabric ID and keys the commissioner instructs the joining device to join the fabric block . The commissioner also configures the joining device to communicate with the remote service by sending a register service request including the fabric service configuration information previously retrieved from the service block . Since the pairing for the joining device is complete the commissioner may disable a failsafe in the joining device to allow the fabric and network information to be stored persistently block . The commissioner then determines whether additional devices are to be added to the network and or fabric block . If there are no additional devices the process has ended. If there are additional devices the commissioner returns to block of .

As previously discussed the network assisted pairing rendezvous algorithm is the process by which a new fabric device e.g. joining device attempts to locate and connect to an existing fabric device e.g. assisting device for purposes of setup and provisioning the new fabric device. In other words the network assisted pairing rendezvous algorithm causes the new fabric device to provisionally join the right PAN connect to the right existing device and establish a secure fabric session with this device via PASE authentication.

The algorithm may also include several tunable parameters the number of results per scan queued for the attempted rendezvous the number of rendezvous retries per result per scan the rendezvous retry back off duration the PAN blacklist size and the PAN blacklist timeout duration. The number of results per scan queued for attempted rendezvous has several constraints such an amount of memory available on the rendezvousing device a desire for a new device to avoid attempting rendezvous with every PAN in an environment. In other words this constraint keeps the number of scan results queued for attempted rendezvous at a desirable size so that the new device does not try to rendezvous with existing devices on PANs with low signal strengths which are not likely to contain the desired rendezvous host.

Another constraint on the number of results per scan is the estimated number of PANs visible to a typical new device with signal strengths higher than the right PAN. If there are too many strong signal false positive PANs the number of results per scan queued for attempted rendezvous may be sufficiently large or the new device may not connect to the right PAN. In some embodiments the value of this parameter may be between 10 20 scan results.

In some embodiments scanning for networks is slow and is to be avoided whenever possible. If a new device attempts to rendezvous with an existing device on a given PAN and this attempt is unsuccessful for reasons other than PASE authentication failure the PAN may be the right PAN but unable to complete the rendezvous attempt because the existing device was busy talking to a different new device. In this case in some embodiments the other new device s rendezvous attempt is bound to fail and in much less time than it would take for the first new device to perform another network scan. Thus in some embodiments the first new device may delay its next scan and retry its rendezvous later. The parameters which determine when and how often the instructed device will retry its rendezvous are the rendezvous retry back off duration and rendezvous retry per PAN per scan maximum.

In some embodiments only one device may attempt PASE authentication with the commissioner via RPR at a time. The length of the rendezvous retry back off duration will thus be based on the duration of a typical PASE authentication attempt such that one device will retry a failed rendezvous attempt with a given existing device as soon as another new device s rendezvous attempt with that existing device would likely have failed. The number of rendezvous retries may be large enough for the new device to reap the benefits of delaying its scan when queued for a rendezvous attempt while also small enough for the new device to re scan eventually in case it missed its rendezvous PAN in an earlier scan attempt. In some embodiments the value of this parameter may be between 3 5 retries per result per scan.

If a new device s rendezvous attempt is unsuccessful due to PASE authentication failure the new device may assume that it will not be able to rendezvous with the rendezvous host on this particular PAN within a given period and add this PAN to its blacklist. The purpose of the PAN blacklist is for a device which knows it cannot rendezvous with anyone on a particular PAN to back off so that other devices may attempt to rendezvous with that PAN s rendezvous host. The size of the PAN blacklist may be determined in relation to an amount of memory available on the rendezvousing devices. For example the PAN blacklist may be similar in size to the number of results per scan queued for attempted rendezvous.

In some embodiments PANs on the blacklist may be removed from the blacklist after a set timeout to handle the case where the user sequentially pairs more than one additional device. In this case though the commissioner may attempt to rendezvous with only one device at a time other new devices whose turns it will soon be to pair may also be awake and attempting to rendezvous. These other new devices may fail PASE authentication with the right existing device on the right PAN before it is their turn to rendezvous. When their turn comes however these devices may be able to connect to the same device on the same PAN for which PASE authentication may have failed for them previously. Thus the blacklist timeout may be close to the shortest expected amount of time taken by the user to rendezvous with provision and set up any fabric device. For example in some embodiments this timeout maybe set to between 1 2 minutes. For some devices whose pairing interactions are shorter the timeout value may be reduced over devices with longer pairing interaction times.

In some embodiments the user may be directed by the commissioner to wake only one new device at a time for additional device pairing so the blacklist may be largely unnecessary. One case in which the blacklist may cover is that in which the user simultaneously wakes e.g. button presses many new devices which they intend to pair one by one.

This algorithm will succeed quickly in the simple case where only a single joiner is present and only a single joinable PAN is visible. Assuming all joiners adhere to this algorithm more difficult cases with multiple joiners and or multiple joinable PANs may take longer.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to implement a feature which enables the user to batch pair many new additional Fabric devices. The existing rendezvous algorithm and Remote Passive Rendezvous mechanism could be adapted for this use case by extending the RPR server s MAC address filtering capability. In addition to rejecting rendezvous participants with non matching MAC addresses the RPR server could pass the MAC address of each new device to the RPR client such that the latter could select the pairing code with which to authenticate each new device via J PAKE and the PASE protocol. In this scenario the network assisted pairing rendezvous algorithm would work without any modification and the RPR client would not iterate through the full list of possible pairing keys when attempting to authenticate each new device.

Returning to with the foregoing in mind the state machine includes an initial state where the joining device gets the next scan result from its queue block . If the queue is empty the joining device scans for networks block . The joining device gets the scan results drops the blacklisted results selects the top N results based on maximum results constraint assigns a number of retries to each result and shuffles the result queue. The first scan result is obtained from the queue. The joining device attempts to provisionally join the PAN from the queue block . If the attempt is unsuccessful and the retries are less than the constraint the joining device attempts to retry to join the PAN. If the attempt is unsuccessful and the number of retries is greater than the constraint the provisional joining has failed. When the attempt has failed the joining device decrements the retry counter on the scan result block and gets a new scan result.

However if the provisional joining of the PAN is successful the joining device attempts to form a TCP connection with the rendezvous host e.g. assisting device on unsecure port block . If the TCP connection fails the joining device decrements the retry counter on the scan result and gets a new scan result. If the TCP connection is successfully completed the joining device awaits a secure session establishment from the assisting device block . If the connection closes or the secure session establishment times out the joining device decrements the retry counter on the scan result and gets a new scan result. If the secure session is successfully established the rendezvous is complete and the joining device awaits provisioning and pairing as described in block .

The Device Control Profile allows one device acting as a client e.g. commissioner to request that another device acting as a server e.g. assisting device and or joining device exercise a specified device control capability. In other words the profile enables devices to remotely access fabric functionality on remote devices where the fabric functionality may be used for the new device setup and provisioning process. Device control capabilities are as any action behavior or state modification which one fabric device may request of another in relation to new device setup and provisioning.

One device may instruct another to reset any combination of its network fabric or service configurations to a known state such as in the case where the instructed device detects a partial misconfiguration of the instructed device during the pairing and setup process.

One device may instruct another to arm or disarm a device configuration failsafe. As previously discussed if armed the failsafe indicates to the instructed device that total configuration details should be reset to a known state in the event of setup or provisioning failure. For example if a connection between two devices fails during network provisioning the joining device forgets all configuration details.

One device may instruct another to enable a fabric echo based connection liveness monitor on a TCP UDP or other suitable connection between these devices. The instructed device may send echo requests on the monitored connection at intervals specified by the instructing device. Both devices start timers when the connection monitor is enabled and restart these timers whenever they receive an echo message. If either of these timers expires the device which owns the expired timer may consider the connection terminated. In some embodiments the instructing device specifies the duration of this inactivity timeout.

As previously discussed n instructing device may instruct another to create a TCP layer or UDP tunnel between the instructing device and a joining device to rendezvous with the instructed device on the instructed device s unsecured fabric port. This tunnel may consist of two TCP and or UDP connections one from the instructing device to the instructed device and one from the instructed device to the joining i.e. rendezvoused device. The instructed device may send data that comes in over one of these connections out over the other and similarly mirror connection closures and half closures. This functionality enables the instructed device to perform fabric provisioning on the rendezvoused device such that the two devices might interact even when not on the same network.

Device Control Profile interactions may vary by device control capability and may have a list of commands common to some interactions. However each interaction includes a device control server and a device control client. Device control clients initiate protocol interactions with device control servers. In some embodiments each device control server may not be capable of implementing all described capabilities. If the device control server receives a message requesting a capability which it does not support the device control server may return a core profile status report with the request s exchange ID and an unsupported message status code. For example the commissioner may use a Status Report scheme that is part of a Core Profile as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 061 593 titled Fabric Network which was filed on Oct. 8 2014 and which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Devices which act as device control servers may also act as device control clients and vice versa.

After the server responds with a core profile status report to indicate success the server may reset the specified configurations. In some embodiments the server cannot reset its configurations before it responds to the client s request as to do so may render it unable to communicate further with the client.

The failsafe arm modes include New Reset and Resume Existing. A New arm request may arm the server s failsafe and set its failsafe token to the value provided in the client s request if the failsafe is not already armed and fail otherwise. If a New arm request succeeds the server may send the client a core profile status report to indicate success. If a New arm request fails because the server s failsafe is already active the server may send the client a device control profile failsafe already active status report . If a New arm request fails for some other reason the server may send the client an appropriate core profile status report .

A device control client may use the Resume Existing arm mode in the case where it reconnects to a new partially provisioned device after a period of network disconnection. If the Resume Existing request succeeds with the client s earlier failsafe token the client may assume that no other device has taken over the new device s provisioning process. If the Resume Existing request fails the client may assume that another device has taken over the new device s provisioning process and that the client device should not attempt to provision the new device unless its failsafe becomes disarmed and it remains unprovisioned.

If the server receives an arm failsafe message with an unknown arm mode it may send the client a device control profile unsupported failsafe mode status report.

If the server accepts the client s request to enable connection monitoring it may respond with a core profile status report to indicate success and create a new exchange ID for fabric echo messages sent over the monitored connection. Fabric echo requests from the server to the client as well as fabric echo responses from the client to the server may be sent with the new exchange ID. If the server fails to enable connection monitoring the server may respond with an appropriate core profile status report to indicate failure.

After the server accepts the client s request to enable connection monitoring it may start a timer with a duration of the send interval from the client s request . When this timer expires the server may send a fabric echo request to the client over the monitored connection using the new exchange ID created for this purpose. This echo request may be sent with the response timeout received by the server as part of the client s initial request . If this timeout expires the server may consider the monitored connection terminated and close its side of the connection. If there is already one echo request outstanding when the send timer expires the server may refrain from sending another.

After the client receives a successful status report from the server in response to its request to enable connection monitoring the client may start a timer with a duration of the response timeout sent to the server . If this timer expires the client may consider the monitored connection terminated and close its side of the connection.

When the client wishes to disable connection monitoring on a given connection it may send the server a disable connection monitor request over that connection. The server may then disable the monitor for this connection if enabled cancel all timers for this connection monitor and send the client a core profile status report to indicate success or failure. The server may respond to a disable connection monitor request with a core profile success status report if no connection monitor is enabled on the specified connection.

The client to perform a remote passive rendezvous may first send the server an RPR request over an established TCP connection. The request may contain a timeout value which indicates how long the server if it accepts the client s request may listen for a rendezvous connection on the unsecured fabric port. The request may also include an inactivity timeout which indicates how long the server may wait to terminate the tunnel after receiving no data over its connection to either the client or rendezvoused device . If the rendezvous timeout expires before the server accepts an unsecured rendezvous connection the server may stop listening for such a connection on the client s behalf and close the connection over which the client sent its RPR request . Finally the request may also contain a fabric node ID value which the server may use to filter unsecured rendezvous connections. The filtering is transparent from the client s perspective i.e. the server will not connect the client to a rendezvoused device with an incorrect node ID . In some embodiments a null value indicates that the server should not use node ID filtering. If the server accepts the client s RPR request the TCP connection over which this request was sent may eventually become the connection over which the server forwards traffic between the client and the rendezvoused device .

When the server receives the client s RPR request it may register the client as its RPR listener and respond with a core profile status report to indicate success if the server is already listening for rendezvous connections on the unsecured fabric port and or another client is not already registered with the server as its RPR listener. Otherwise the server may respond with a core profile status report to indicate failure. The server may have only one registered RPR listener at a time.

In some embodiments the device control profile does not include a method to instruct the device control server to listen for rendezvous connections on the unsecured Fabric port. Instead in such embodiments that functionality is provided by the Network Provisioning Profile.

When the client receives a successful status report in response to an RPR request it may keep open the TCP or UDP connection over which it sent this request until either the rendezvous timeout expires or the server closes this connection. The client may send no further fabric message or other data over this connection until it receives a remote connection complete message from the server . If the client detects that the rendezvous timeout from its RPR request has expired it may close its connection to the server .

If the rendezvous timeout specified in the client s RPR request expires before the server accepts a rendezvous connection on behalf of the client the server may stop listening for such a connection on the client s behalf and close the connection over which the client sent its RPR request . If the server receives a rendezvous connection before the rendezvous timeout expires it may cancel this timeout. The server may discard any data received from the client over the RPR connection after a successful status report has been sent in response to the client s RPR request and before the server has sent the client a remote connection complete message.

If the server accepts a rendezvous connection on the unsecured fabric port while it listens for such connections on the client s behalf the server first compares the rendezvoused device s fabric node ID to that specified in the client s RPR request if any. If the IDs match or the client specified node ID is null the server may deregister the client as an RPR listener and send the client a remote connection complete message via the same TCP connection over which it received the client s RPR request . If the client specified node ID is non null and does not match that of the rendezvoused device the server may immediately close its connection with the rendezvoused device and resume listening for unsecured rendezvouses on the client s behalf.

The remote connection complete message indicates that the client may now send and receive data over this connection to and from the rendezvoused device . Once this message has been sent the tunnel between the client and rendezvoused device is considered to have been established.

The server sends the remote connection complete message before it starts forwarding data between the client and rendezvoused device . If the rendezvoused device sends data over its connection to the server before the remote connection complete message has been sent to the client the server buffers the data from the rendezvoused device and sends it to the client immediately after it sends the remote connection complete message . In some embodiments once the server has sent the remote connection complete message it may no longer send non forwarded data i.e. data of its own origin over its connections to the client and rendezvoused device .

The rendezvoused device is agnostic of whether the device with whom it exchanges packets over the rendezvoused TCP connection differs from the fabric node with whom it actually exchanges messages over this connection.

After the tunnel has been established if the server does not receive data from either side of the tunnel within the inactivity timeout period specified in the client s RPR request the server may consider the tunnel terminated and close its connections to both the client and the rendezvoused device . To avoid unwanted tunnel termination as the result of this timeout the client and rendezvoused device may enable active connection monitoring between them.

When the client or rendezvoused device closes their connection with the server the server may close its connection with the other tunnel participant and consider the tunnel terminated. If the client or rendezvoused device closes only the read or write side of their connection to the server the server may close only the read or write side of its connection to the other tunnel participant and consider the tunnel alive until either it times out due to inactivity or the remaining open side of the connection is closed.

In order for a device control profile frame to be properly recognized and handled the fabric application header may identify the frame as such. For example messages using the device control profile include a fabric application header e.g. 0x00000006 for device control profile frames. All messages in reset configuration arm disarm failsafe and enable disable connection monitor protocol interactions may share an exchange ID of the message sent by the device control client to initiate the interaction illustrating that the communications are all related. Fabric echo requests and responses used to determine connection liveness may share the exchange ID selected for this purpose by the device control server for each echo message sent. The exchange ID of the remote connection complete message sent to the device control client by the device control server as part of a remote passive rendezvous interaction is undefined as the client does not send any message to the device control server in response. In some embodiments at least some data frames may have no message body and purely rely upon information in the headers of the applications.

A message type field of the fabric application header may have one of the following set of values for Device Control Profile frames 

The arm failsafe frame also includes a failsafe token that may be used to identify the arm failsafe request and validate it. The failsafe token may be a 4 byte arbitrary value unique to each fabric provisioning attempt.

The specific embodiments described above have been shown by way of example and it should be understood that these embodiments may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms. It should be further understood that the claims are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed but rather to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

