---

title: Association of item identifiers
abstract: A radio-frequency identification (RFID) reader system and an imaging device are provided. The RFID reader system is configured to read an RFID tag attached to an item at a location relative to a barcode. The barcode is associated with the item. Once the RFID reader system identifies the RFID tag, the imaging device uses the placement of the RFID tag and/or features of the RFID tag to identify and read the barcode. The imaging device may also identify the RFID tag. Once the barcode is identified, the barcode and the RFID tag are associated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305283&OS=09305283&RS=09305283
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09305283
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141217
---
Recent years have seen an increased interest in radio frequency identification RFID technologies. For example an inventory item in a business can be tracked using an RFID tag that is attached to the item. The RFID tag is a type of an item identifier. Reading the RFID tag may be performed without a clear line of sight between an RFID reader and the tag. This is because RFID tags are read using electrical signals transmitted wirelessly. A barcode is another type of item identifier and can also be used to track inventory items. A barcode may be printed on the inventory item or otherwise attached to the inventory item. To read the barcode a barcode reader e.g. an imaging device a scanner a camera or other suitable device configured to read barcodes scans the barcode by sweeping a light beam across the barcode capturing an image of the barcode or by using other similar methods. In any case reading the barcode may require a clear line of sight between the barcode reader and the barcode.

In the following description various examples will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the examples. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the examples may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the example being described.

Examples of the present specification are directed to among other things techniques for associating item identifiers. In particular examples are directed to programmatically associating a barcode which is read using light with a radio frequency identification RFID tag which is read using wireless electrical signals. Because barcodes are generally ubiquitous most consumer items are already associated with a barcode. The barcode may come printed on the consumer item or on packaging associated with the consumer item. The barcode can be used to track the item by scanning the barcode and identifying the item from the barcode information. It may also be desirable for a user to associate the barcode with an RFID tag. Such association may enable the purchaser to utilize services designed to track consumer items using RFID technology. For example a purveyor of a convenience store may associate a unique RFID tag with each product on its shelves. The purveyor can then uniquely read all of the products on the shelves using an RFID reader without removing each product and scanning its particular barcode. Thus association of barcodes with RFID tags may present efficiencies in managing inventory at a business level or within a home.

In a particular example a user purchases breakfast cereal from a third party. The breakfast cereal is associated with a barcode which is printed on the side of the cereal box. The user then accesses an RFID tag. The RFID tag is identifiable by an RFID reader system. The RFID tag is also identifiable by an imaging device via a visible identifier of the RFID tag. The RFID tag is positioned relative to the barcode and configured to assist an imaging device to locate the barcode. When the RFID tag has been read by the reader the reader or a computing system with which the reader communicates can initiate instructions to capture an image including the barcode process the image captured including the barcode e.g. rectify the image read the barcode to identify the data associated with the barcode and associate the barcode with the RFID tag. To aid in this function in embodiments the RFID tag includes a transparent substrate in an interior portion that is surrounded by a perimeter including the visible identifier. The RFID tag is mounted over the top of the barcode such that the barcode is visible through the transparent substrate and the visible identifier surrounds the exterior of the barcode. When the cereal box with the RFID tag is moved into range of the RFID reader system the RFID reader system reads the RFID tag. In response the imaging device is initiated. The imaging device uses the visible identifier of the RFID tag to identify and focus on the barcode. The visible identifier may also be used by the imaging device to uniquely identify an RFID number associated with the RFID tag. Once the barcode is identified the imaging device reads the barcode. Once read an association of the barcode and the RFID tag is stored in a database.

Turning now to the figures illustrates a block diagram for implementing techniques relating to associating item identifiers as described herein. The block diagram may include an association engine . The association engine may be in communication with an RFID reader system and an imaging device . The association engine is configured to manage the operation of the RFID reader system and the imaging device to implement the techniques described herein. The block diagram may also include item . The item may be any suitable item with which a barcode and an RFID tag may be associated. For example the item may be an example of consumer items household items grocery items auto parts electronics sporting equipment durable goods inventory items in a business or warehouse commercial items or any other item that can be tagged for identification. The barcode may be any suitable continuous or discrete one dimensional or linear barcode e.g. universal product code UPC Codabar Code 25 Code 39 Code 128 EAN 2 EAN 5 Facing Identification Mark Intelligent Mail Barcode MSI Pharmacode PLANET Plessey and any other suitable one dimensional barcode or two dimensional or matrix barcode e.g. QR code color based code Aztec code and other suitable two dimensional barcodes . The RFID tag may be any suitable RFID tag as described herein. The RFID tag may have a visible identifier . The visible identifier may be visible to the imaging device . The visible identifier may uniquely identify an RFID number associated with the RFID tag . With this in mind the visible identifier may include for example any suitable combination of one or more of the following a shape an edge a corner a pattern an alphanumeric identifier e.g. a hexadecimal number associated with the RFID tag a symbol or a color that is associated with an RFID number associated with the RFID tag and any other distinguishing feature or characteristic.

In a typical example the item may be associated with the barcode prior to a user obtaining the item . For items that are mass produced the barcode may be the same for each unit of a particular item or type of item. Thus in some examples the barcode may only identify the product type e.g. a can of noodle soup but not necessarily identify the particular can of noodle soup that is the item . Because the RFID tag is entirely unique associating it with the item via the barcode may enable improved tracking of the actual item .

When the item is moved within the range of the RFID reader system the RFID reader system may read the RFID tag . The RFID reader system may inform the imaging device that it has read the RFID tag . In some examples the RFID reader system may inform the association engine that it has read the RFID tag by transferring tag data e.g. an RFID number associated with the RFID tag to the association engine . The association engine may then initiate the imaging device . In either example once the RFID tag has been read the imaging device begins to scan for the visible identifier of the RFID tag and or the barcode . The RFID tag or the visible identifier of the RFID tag may have a unique shape or be placed adjacent to the barcode in a particular manner. The information about the shape of the RFID tag and or placement of the RFID tag relative to the barcode may be shared with the imaging device . Thus the imaging device may use this information to scan for the visible identifier of the RFID tag and or the barcode . For example the imaging device may initially search for the visible identifier of the RFID tag and once identified use the visible identifier to focus on the barcode . The imaging device may be configured to search for features of the RFID tag that are true for all RFID tags or that are true for the particular RFID tag that has been placed on the item . Features include for example edges corners shapes colors frames and any other feature than can be used by the imaging device to identify the RFID tag . In some examples the imaging device or the association engine may perform any suitable edge recognition technique to identify the edges of the RFID tag and or the edges of the visible identifier . Because the imaging device may know how the RFID tag should have been placed relative to the barcode once one or more edges of the RFID tag are identified the imaging device may search for the barcode based on the relative location.

Once the imaging device has identified the barcode barcode data is passed to the association engine . The association engine then associates the tag data from the RFID tag with the barcode data from the barcode . This may include performing one or more operations to identify the barcode in a database of possible barcodes or to verify the barcode . A mapping of the RFID data and the barcode data is stored in a combined database . In some examples the RFID data and the barcode data are independently passed to the combined database and stored in association with each other.

Generally RFID refers to a wireless non contacting system for transferring data by way of radio frequency electromagnetic fields. In an RFID system data transfers occur in the form of modulated signals transmitted between an RFID tag or an RFID device which may include various communication components logic or circuitry and an RFID reader which may include antennas or other like devices. Data stored within a microchip or other storage device associated with the RFID tag may be sent to the RFID reader which may interpret not only the data received in the RFID signal but also other relevant information or attributes of the RFID signal such as an intensity or a frequency of the RFID signal as well as a direction from which the RFID signal originated a range traveled by the RFID signal or at least some of the information or data included in the RFID signal. The transfer of the RFID signal is initiated when an electric field or a magnetic field transmitted by an RFID reader is sensed by an RFID tag which transmits information or data that may be stored in association with the RFID tag in one or more microchips or other storage devices.

RFID systems provide a number of advantages over similar systems for the short range transfer of information or data. First an RFID tag may be formed of components having remarkably small compact shapes and sizes and tags that are as thin as a sheet of paper or smaller than a grain of rice are quite common. Additionally unlike a bar code e.g. a one dimensional bar code or a two dimensional QR code an RFID tag need not be provided within a line of sight of an RFID reader in order to successfully transmit data. Therefore RFID tags may be concealed or embedded into many different types of objects of any size or shape as well as humans or other animals. Next an RFID tag may be programmed with a fixed set or packet of read only data which may be transmitted to an RFID reader countless number of times in theory or reprogrammed with modifiable sets of data that may be written and rewritten as needed based on the application in which the RFID tag is provided. Moreover and perhaps most importantly while an active RFID tag includes and utilizes a local power source such as a battery a passive RFID tag does not require any power in order to successfully transmit a set or packet of data to an RFID reader and may therefore transmit such data when power supplies are unavailable or in environments where providing power to the RFID tag is infeasible.

RFID signals may be transmitted from an RFID tag to an RFID reader in many different formats and at many different frequency levels. An RFID tag that transmits signals within low frequency LF medium frequency MF or high frequency HF levels e.g. approximately 3 kilohertz to 30 megahertz or 3 kHz 30 MHz may transfer relatively small sized sets or packets of data over short ranges e.g. between ten and one hundred centimeters or 10 100 cm . Other RFID tags may transmit signals at higher frequency levels such as ultrahigh frequency UHF or microwave levels e.g. approximately 300 megahertz to 300 gigahertz or 300 MHz 300 GHz including larger sets or packets of data at ranges of one meter 1 m or longer.

A signal transmission from an RFID tag to an RFID reader may be achieved in any number of ways. An inductively coupled RFID tag is an RFID tag that is powered by energy obtained from magnetic fields generated by an RFID reader and may be coupled to the RFID reader using this energy. In this regard an RFID reader may include one or more coils through which an electric current may pass thereby causing a magnetic field to be generated by the RFID reader according to Ampere s Law. Likewise an inductively coupled RFID tag may also include one or more coils. When the RFID tag passes within a particular range of the RFID reader an electric current is generated within the coils of the RFID tag thereby coupling the RFID reader and the RFID tag based on the magnetic flux passing through the respective sets of coils. The electric current passing through the coils of the RFID tag may then power internal circuits within the RFID tag and cause an RFID signal to be transmitted from the RFID tag to the RFID reader accordingly. Thus inductively coupled RFID tags are commonly used in powerless environments where a passive system for transmitting signals may be required.

Additionally an RFID tag may be coupled by any number of other modes. For example capacitively coupled RFID tags include coupling plates that are designed to correspond to a plate of an RFID reader. When the RFID tag is placed in sufficiently close proximity to the RFID reader thereby causing the corresponding coupling plates of the RFID tag and the RFID reader to be aligned in parallel with one another and within a short range a transfer of data from the RFID tag to the RFID reader is achieved. Unlike an inductively coupled RFID tag which is powered by a magnetic field generated by an RFID reader a capacitively coupled RFID tag is powered by an alternating electric field generated by an RFID reader. For this reason capacitively coupled RFID tags usually have more limited operating ranges than inductively coupled RFID tags and are typically employed in near field communication environments. Similarly a backscatter coupled RFID tag receives power emitted from an RFID reader s antenna. A portion of the emissions from the RFID reader is received by a corresponding antenna of the RFID tag and may be filtered or rectified as necessary in order to trigger a transfer of data from the RFID tag to the RFID reader. Any type or mode of coupling between an active semi active e.g. powered on a temporary basis or for limited purposes or passive RFID tag and an RFID reader may be utilized in accordance with the present description.

In addition to RFID tags which are automatically coupled with an RFID reader the systems and methods of the present description may further include an RFID tag such as a passive RFID tag which may be manually activated e.g. coupled upon a manual action by a human or machine in order to cause a transmission of a data signal from the RFID tag to one or more RFID readers. A manually activated RFID tag may include physical or virtual switches that may close a circuit within the RFID tag and thereby permit the RFID tag to function as a data transmitter in the presence of an electric or magnetic field. For example a manually activated RFID tag may include capacitive elements that define a capacitor within the RFID tag and may effectively close a circuit within the RFID tag when such elements detect bioelectricity from a user. The term bioelectricity generally refers to electrical charges or electric field gradients that may be stored within a living body such as a human body which contains blood and other matter having a variety of positively and negatively charged ions e.g. sodium chloride and others . Bioelectricity within a body may cause a change in capacitance of such elements in a vicinity of a location touched by the body e.g. a digit such as a finger or thumb due to disruptions in electrical fields caused by the body s presence thereby further causing a change in the time constant of the RFID tag and a discharge of the capacitor in an amount that may be defined as a function of the resistance of the capacitive elements.

According to some embodiments such capacitive elements may be formed into a layered stack or may include a substantially linear or planar gap or break and may be covered with a flexible protective layer formed from one or more plastics or rubbers e.g. acrylics vinyls polyurethanes or the like or other like materials. The protective layer may be adhered to one or more capacitive elements of an RFID circuit which may include elements formed from a conductive material such as aluminum copper silicon or indium tin oxide that are separated by an air gap. When a user touches a protective layer of an RFID tag with a finger which is a bioelectric conductor a change in the effective capacitance on the order of approximately one picofarad between the elements which are also conductors in a vicinity of a point or points of contact with the protective layer is introduced. Such contact forms a conductive bridge across the elements thereby causing disruptions in electrical fields in the vicinity of one or more of the elements and further causing an internal current flow through the RFID tag circuit.

In addition to capacitive elements a circuit of an RFID tag may include other components for enabling a manual actuation thereof by a human or a machine including one or more substantially planar conductive elements that may be separated by an air gap. Such an air gap between the conductive elements defines an open switch within the circuit of the RFID tag which may also be covered with a flexible protective layer that may be formed from one or more plastics rubbers or other like materials. When a user contacts an external surface of the RFID tag corresponding to the air gap e.g. the flexible protective layer over the air gap at least two of the conductive elements are placed in contact with one another thereby bridging the air gap between the conductive elements and closing the open switch. Subsequently an internal current flow through the RFID tag circuit is enabled. Because the bridging of the air gap and the closure of the open switch is registered by manually driven electrical contact a manually activated RFID tag including substantially planar conductive elements does not require bioelectricity in order to operate properly and a user may interact with the RFID tag using not only his or her fingers or hands which may be gloved or ungloved but also a stylus a pointer or another like object.

Turning first to the RFID reader system the RFID reader system may be configured to manage the reading of the RFID tags attached to the items . To this end the RFID reader system may be any suitable radio frequency RF reader system capable of reading RFID tags. In some examples the RFID reader system may be an active reader passive tag system. In other examples the RFID reader system may be a passive reader active tag system an active reader active tag system or any other suitable reader system and tag combination. The RFID reader system may be configured to read tags using any suitable frequency band including low frequency bands high frequency bands ultra high frequency bands microwave bands and any other suitable frequency bands.

The RFID reader system may include reader and one or more antennas N . As introduced above the reader may be any suitable RFID reader and in some examples may include one or more computers servers chips chipsets or the like. Thus the reader may include processors and memory to implement reading techniques. The antennas may be any suitable antennas configured to transmit and receive RF energy. In particular the reader may be configured to read the RFID tag via one or more of the antennas . The RFID reader system may be distributed throughout multiple locations rooms or positions. For example the antennas may be located in a first room where the item is located while the reader may be located in a second room.

To read RFID tags and identify corresponding items the reader may be configured to transmit via the antennas RF energy in the form of RF signals e.g. an interrogation signal and receive via the antennas RF energy in the form of RF signals e.g. authentication replies from the RFID tags. The reader may transmit the interrogator signal to the antennas which may direct the interrogation signal in the direction of the items . The interrogation signal may energize the RFID tags attached to the corresponding items .

Once the RFID tag is energized it may begin to transmit its own RF energy e.g. an authentication reply . As the reader is configured to receive RF energy it may receive the authentication reply from the RFID tag . The process of the reader sending an interrogation signal and receiving authentication replies from the RFID tags may be characterized as reading tags. 

The imaging device may be any suitable imaging device capable of reading the barcode and or identifying the visible identifier within an environment. For example the imaging device may include a light source and a photosensor that is scrubbed across the environment a digital camera configured to capture imagery e.g. one or more images within the environment a video camera configured to capture video e.g. continuous image frames within the environment or any other suitable combination of a projector and a light sensor.

The item management service may be configured to manage the operation of the RFID reader system the imaging device and any other aspects of associating item identifiers. The item management service may be implemented as part of an electronic marketplace. In some examples the electronic marketplace associates a portion of items that it sells with unique RFID tags. Thus the barcodes for these items may already be associated with RFID tags and stored by the item management service . In some examples the techniques described herein may be implemented with items obtained from third parties which do not typically use RFID barcode associations. Associating the items purchased from third parties with RFID tags and storing such association with the item management service may enable the user to manage all of its items using RFID. Thus the item management service becomes not only a service for managing the association of RFID tags with barcodes but a service for managing inventory items i.e. items that are stored or retained by the user . In some examples all or a portion of the item management service may be implemented on a local computer at the same location where the RFID reader system and the imaging device are located.

The tracking of items using the RFID tags may provide the user with information about when to replace certain items when certain items expire when certain items should be serviced when services associated with certain items should be paid for or renewed and other similar types of information. For example a pantry RFID reader system that is in communication with the item management service may be provided in a pantry of a kitchen. After barcodes of grocery items e.g. examples of the items are associated with RFID tags as described herein and placed in the pantry the pantry RFID reader system may continuously monitor the grocery items via the RFID tags. For example after a particular grocery item is spent e.g. flour and disposed of the pantry RFID reader system may no longer be able to read an RFID tag associated with the flour. Because the item management service has access to the association between the RFID tag on the flour and the barcode on the flour the item management service may inform a user that flour should be purchased. In particular the item management service may inform the user the particular brand of flour and other information that is particular to the flour that was in the pantry. This information could be added to a shopping list or automatically fulfilled. The same type of monitoring may indicate that a different grocery item that has an expiration date e.g. olive oil has been in the pantry beyond the expiration date. Based on this information the item management service may inform the user that the olive oil should be disposed of and new olive oil purchased. The item management service may recommend a different olive oil whether or not the same olive oil was originally purchased from the electronic marketplace associated with the item management service .

The item management service may include one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm and may host web service applications. These servers may be configured to host a website or combination of websites viewable on a user interface of a user device. The item management service may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions software firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed throughout the item management service which may be hosted as one or more virtual computers. The memory may store program instructions e.g. the association engine that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory including the item management service the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . The item management service may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some examples the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. The memory may include an operating system . The item management service may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer or other I O device.

In some examples the item management service may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. As used herein modules engines and components may refer to programming modules executed by computing systems e.g. processors that are part of the item management service . As discussed in more detail with reference to the association engine may include one or more components.

In some examples the item management service may also include a user interface . The user interface may be utilized by an operator or other authorized user to access portions of the item management service . In some examples the user interface may include a graphical user interface web based applications programmatic interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs or other user interface configurations. The item management service may also include a data store . In some examples the data store may include one or more databases data structures or the like for storing and or retaining information associated with the item management service . In this example the data store may include data structures such as RFID number database barcode database and the combined database .

The RFID number database may be used to retain information identifying possible RFID numbers which are associated with RFID tags such as the RFID tag . For example the RFID tags that users attach to the items may be provided to the users by an operator of the item management service . Alternatively in some examples the RFID tags may be provided to the users independent of the item management service . In this example the item management service may save the RFID numbers associated with the RFID tags in the RFID number database once the RFID tags are read.

The barcode database may be used to retain information pertaining to barcodes such as the barcode . For example the barcode database may include information associating barcodes with items. In some examples more than one barcode is associated with one item. The barcode database may track these associations and be accessed as part of implementing the techniques described herein. Images of the item and other information e.g. item details expiration dates renewal rates service dates and information characterizing the item may also be retained in the barcode database and associated with the barcode .

The combined database may be used to retain information pertaining to associated item identifiers. For example once the association engine associates the barcode with an RFID number of the RFID tag the association engine may retain the association in the combined database . The combined database may include associations that are specific to a user a group of users an organization or the like. Whether stored in their own specific location within the combined database or accessible from a general location within the combined database the associations may enable a particular user to track all of its inventory. In some examples other information is retained in the combined database in association with the RFID number and the barcode such as for example images of the item item information for the item and purchase history of the item by the user.

Generally the communication component may be configured to manage communications between the various components of the architecture . For example the communication component may receive information from the RFID reader system and pass it to other components of the association engine to be processed. The reader management component may be configured to manage the RFID reader system . For example the reader management component may adjust the intensity of the reading signals transmitted by the reader via the antennas . The imaging device management component may be configured to manage the operation of the imaging device . This may include for example scanning for a pattern of the RFID tag the visible identifier of the RFID tag or the location of the RFID tag relative to the barcode . This also may include capturing images or videos of the item . Finally the association component may be configured to manage the process of associating the barcode with the RFID tag .

The RFID tag includes an interior portion and an exterior portion . The interior portion is bounded by the dashed line . The interior portion may be constructed of a material such that the imaging device can read the barcode A via the material. For example the material may have transparent or translucent properties e.g. plastic glass and other material having transparent and or translucent properties . Materials having transparent properties may allow light to pass through. Materials having translucent properties may allow some light to pass through. In some examples the interior portion is not included in the RFID tag . In this example the barcode A may be read by the imaging device without any material covering the barcode A . In some examples an RFID number may be printed on the RFID tag . In this example the imaging device may read the RFID number from the RFID tag and read the barcode A . The RFID number is an example of the visible identifier .

The exterior portion of the RFID tag may extend from the dashed line to a perimeter edge and may define a pattern or shape of the RFID tag . The exterior portion may be constructed of any suitable number of materials having translucent transparent or opaque properties. For example the exterior portion may be constructed of an opaque substrate with a transparent or translucent layer on top of the opaque substrate. Within or on top of the layer may be disposed an RFID antenna . Materials having opaque properties may allow little or no light to pass through. In some examples the exterior portion is designed such that the RFID reader system can read the RFID tag and the imaging device can use a portion of the RFID tag e.g. the perimeter edge or the RFID tag antenna visible to the imaging device within or on top of the exterior portion . The perimeter edge is an example of the visible identifier . In some examples the imaging device identifies the location of the barcode A using the pattern of the exterior portion and also rectifies an image including the barcode A using the pattern of the exterior portion . In some examples the RFID tag antenna has a unique pattern or shape that the imaging device can use to implement the techniques described herein. The RFID tag antenna is an example of the visible identifier .

The item may include a barcode and an RFID tag . The barcode is an example of the barcode and the RFID tag is an example of the RFID tag . The RFID tag is placed on the item at a location relative to the barcode . In this example the relative location is directly above the barcode . Other example locations include to either side e.g. right or left or below. The RFID tag and any other RFID tags discussed herein may be placed in accordance with an RFID tag placement instruction. The RFID tag placement instruction may be provided to the user who places the RFID tag . Based on this instruction the techniques described herein may anticipate where to find the barcode relative to the RFID tag . In some examples an exterior edge of the RFID tag may be a pattern and may therefore be used to identify the RFID tag and barcode and rectify an image including the barcode . In some examples an RFID tag antenna may be visible on or through the RFID tag . The RFID tag antenna may be constructed having a unique shape. The shape may be used for implementing the techniques described herein. Thus the placement of the RFID tag and or a shape corresponding to the RFID tag may be used to identify the barcode . In some examples the RFID tag may include an RFID number . In some examples the RFID number may be printed on the RFID tag in a manner such that the imaging device can read the RFID number . Such reading may be desirable to uniquely identify the RFID tag when other RFID tags have also been read. In some examples the RFID tag antenna the exterior edge and or the RFID number are examples of the visible identifier .

The item may include a barcode and an RFID tag . The barcode is an example of the barcode and the RFID tag is an example of the RFID tag . The RFID tag has been placed on the item at a location relative to the barcode . Similar to the item the barcode may be identified using the RFID tag . In some examples the RFID tag includes a unique pattern. In this example the unique pattern is represented by an exterior frame . The exterior frame forms the shape of a star. In some examples any other suitable shape may be used e.g. geometric shapes non geometric shapes or any other suitable variety of shapes . In some examples the exterior frame is an example of the visible identifier .

Within the room is included an RFID reader system A and an imaging device A . More than one RFID reader system including more or fewer readers and or antennas may be included in the room or outside of the room . Additionally more than one imaging device may be included in the room or outside the room . The RFID reader system A is shown attached to a leg of the table . This may enable the RFID reader system A to identify the RFID tags attached to the items on the table once they are placed on the table . In some examples the RFID reader system A may be mounted elsewhere. For example it may be screwed into a light bulb socket or plugged into an outlet in the room . The imaging device A is positioned above the table . This may enable the imaging device A to image a wide portion of the room including the table . In some examples the imaging device A may be configured to move and or rotate. In some examples the imaging device A may be mounted elsewhere. For example it may be screwed into a light bulb socket or plugged into an outlet in the room .

The room also includes combined reader imaging device . In some examples the combined reader imaging device may be configured to perform the operations of the imaging device and the RFID reader system . In some examples the combined reader imaging device may be configured to move throughout the room and or may be mounted elsewhere. For example the combined reader imaging device may be screwed into a light bulb socket or plugged into an outlet in the room . At least a portion of the data gathered by the RFID reader system A the imaging device A and or the combined reader imaging device may be accessible by a user via a user device . The user may be associated with the room and the items on the table . In some examples the user device is configured to implement at least a portion of the techniques described herein. The user device is any suitable user device and may include for example personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers or other user devices. In some examples the techniques described herein are implemented by a service independent of the room e.g. the item management service .

At the process identifies based on the reading at unidentified RFID tags within the reading environment. In some examples this may be performed by the reader management component . Identifying the unidentified RFID tags may include determining which RFID tags have not been associated with barcodes as opposed to other RFID tags which have already been associated with barcodes. In some examples the RFID reader system reads continuously. In some examples receiving signals from an unidentified RFID tag includes reading the unidentified RFID tag for the first time with the RFID reader system. For example as a first item with a first RFID tag enters a reading environment the first RFID tag may be an unidentified RFID tag because the RFID reader system has yet to recognize and identify the first RFID tag. Identifying the first RFID tag may therefore include identifying that the RFID tag is within the reading environment and or within a range of the RFID reader system.

At the process identifies RFID numbers associated with unidentified RFID tags. In some examples this may be performed by the reader management component . Identifying RFID numbers may be possible once the unidentified RFID tags are read. For example an unidentified RFID tag may receive an interrogation signal and transmit an authenticated reply including its RFID number that can be processed to identify the RFID number associated with the unidentified RFID tag. In some examples the RFID number is entirely unique to the unidentified RFID tag. In some examples the reader has access to a list of possible RFID numbers and identifying the RFID number may include receiving an RFID number and comparing it to a list of possible RFID numbers to identify a match.

At the process initiates an imaging device to find at least one unidentified RFID tag. In some examples this may be performed by the imaging device management component . Initiating the imaging device to find at least one unidentified RFID tag may include initiating the imaging device to search for a visible identifier associated with the unidentified RFID tag. The visible identifier may uniquely identify the unidentified RFID tag. For example when there are multiple unidentified RFID tags in the reading environment identifying each with the RFID reader system may not be sufficient to associate each with a barcode. This may be because the multiple unidentified RFID tags are attached to multiple items. In this example it may be desirable to further identify the multiple unidentified RFID tags using the imaging device. Thus at the imaging device may be used to identify one or more visible identifiers of the multiple unidentified RFID tags to uniquely identify each. In this manner a unique RFID number may be associated with each unidentified RFID tag. Alternatively each unidentified RFID tag may include a unique visible identifier as described herein and the association of each unique visible identifier with each unidentified RFID tag may be identified based on data within the RFID signal received from each RFID tag or by reference to a database storing associations between visible identifiers and RFID tags for example.

At the process initiates an imaging device to capture an image including a barcode and the RFID tag. In some examples this may be performed by the imaging device management component . Initiating the imagine device may be in response to a reader identifying an RFID number associated with an identified RFID tag or an unidentified RFID tag. In some examples initiating the imaging device may include turning the imaging device on and instructing the imaging device to begin to scan for visible identifiers of RFID tags and or barcodes. In some examples scanning may include scanning using projected light and a light sensor. In some examples the scanning includes capturing video content or one or more images. In some examples the imaging device is directed to a focused area that corresponds to the range of the antenna of the reader system that detected the RFID tag. Thus it may be known that the barcode attached adjacent to the RFID tag is located within a certain distance of the antenna. In some examples the imaging device scans for a predetermined amount of time or until some other threshold is met as discussed below. In some examples the imaging device captures images that include one or more items each with an RFID tag and one or more barcodes on each of the one or more items. Using the imaging device the techniques described herein may be used to distinguish between the one or more items and the one or more barcodes in order to associate at least one barcode with an RFID tag attached to a corresponding item.

At the process receives the image captured by the imaging device. In some examples this may be performed by the communication component . Receiving the image captured by the imaging device may include receiving more than one image captured by the imaging device. In some examples the image or more than one image may include the barcode the RFID tag and a portion of the item. In some examples the RFID tag may be used by the imaging device to identify the barcode. As described herein a visible identifier or indicator of the RFID tag e.g. a frame pattern edge color shape symbol or the like of the RFID tag may be used by the imaging device to locate the RFID tag and focus the imaging device to find the barcode. The visible identifier or indicator may also be used to identify the RFID tag.

At the process recognizes a visible identifier of the RFID tag. In some examples this may be performed by the association component . Recognizing the visible identifier may include processing one or more images performing one or more image analysis techniques on the one or more images selecting the image that has the best depiction of the barcode and identifying the visible identifier of the RFID tag from the one or more images. In some examples the image analysis techniques may include adjusting one or more characteristics of the image or a portion of the image. For example the image analysis may include detecting edges of the visible identifier aligning the visible identifier rectifying the image such that the visible identifier is aligned and any other suitable image analysis technique.

At the process identifies the barcode. In some examples this may be performed by the association component . Identifying the barcode may include processing one or more images performing one or more image analysis techniques on the one or more images selecting the image that has the best depiction of the barcode and reading the barcode from the image. In some examples the image analysis techniques may include adjusting one or more characteristics of the image or a portion of the image. For example the image analysis may include detecting edges aligning the barcode rectifying the image such that the barcode is aligned and any other suitable image analysis technique. In some examples identifying the barcode may include verifying the barcode. For example the techniques described herein may verify that the identified barcode is indeed the correct barcode for the item. This may include comparing an image of the item with the barcode. The image may be the image of the item from which the barcode was extracted or in some examples the image may be an image of the item from another source. These images and other images may be stored in association with the associated RFID number and barcode. In some examples the barcode may already be stored in a database and identifying the barcode may include comparing the received barcode with others in the database.

At the process associates the identified barcode and the identified RFID number. In some examples this may be performed by the association component . Associating the identified barcode and the identified RFID number may include storing the RFID number and the barcode in a database. In some examples the associated RFID number and barcode may comprise a digital mapping of the RFID tag to the barcode. In some examples associating the identified barcode may include associating more than one identified barcode with the RFID tag. In some examples associating may include storing an association of the RFID number and at least one barcode in a database. In some examples the RFID number may be associated with one or more images of the item and item information corresponding to the item.

At the process determines whether all RFID tags have been associated. In some examples this determination is performed by the association component . Determining whether all RFID tags have been associated may include comparing a list of identified RFID numbers with a list of associated RFID numbers. If the list of identified RFID numbers is larger than the list of associated RFID numbers the process may return to where unidentified RFID tags are identified. Otherwise the process ends at . In some examples the decision at is made based on a threshold. For example if a threshold amount of time has passed since a start of the process the answer at may be yes and the process may end at . In some examples the threshold indicates a threshold percentage of RFID numbers from identified RFID numbers that must be associated prior to concluding reading. In some examples the percentage of RFID numbers that are associated with barcodes may increase over time. This may be a result of items within the reading environment moving adjusting or otherwise exposing different sides of the items to the imaging device to facilitate association of the RFID numbers and barcodes.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any suitable device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any suitable combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any suitable standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the electronic client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In some examples a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the electronic client device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the environment in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of suitable applications. User or client devices can include any suitable number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of suitable commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any suitable combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any suitable medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example like language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the described embodiments. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the embodiments disclosed herein to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

