---

title: Tracking and analyzing service outages
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer-readable storage devices, for tracking and analyzing service outages. Weather data and outage data are accessed. Based on the weather data and the outage data, weather conditions corresponding to service outages are identified. A machine learning system is trained to estimate training a machine learning system to estimate effects of weather conditions on utility systems. Data for a particular utility system is provided to the trained machine learning system, and in response, output indicating estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system is received. The information that indicates the estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system is provided for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297723&OS=09297723&RS=09297723
owner: American Public Power Association Inc.
number: 09297723
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141114
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 904 663 filed Nov. 15 2013 and titled Tracking and Analyzing Service Outages which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to tracking and analyzing of service outages such as interruptions of electric power.

From time to time the services provided by utilities and other service providers may be interrupted. The causes and characteristics of service disruptions can vary widely.

A system can track and analyze service outages to assist utilities and other service providers in responding to service outages and avoiding service outages. For example users or machines associated with various utilities can input information about service outages such as electric power outages. The system can provide reports that provide information about outages that have occurred. The system can also use information about prior service outages and other information such as weather news and social media information to predict characteristics of future outages. The system may also provide recommendations for maintenance and other preventative action to mitigate the effects of future outages.

In one general aspect a method performed by one or more computers includes accessing weather data that indicates different weather conditions occurring in a geographic area over a range of time accessing outage data that indicates service outages occurring in the geographic area over the range of time where each service outage has a corresponding time of occurrence a corresponding utility system and a corresponding geographic location in the geographic area based on the weather data and the outage data identifying for each of the service outages a weather condition that occurred at the corresponding geographic location of the service outage at the corresponding time of occurrence of the service outage training a machine learning system to estimate effects of weather conditions on utility systems using i characteristics of the respective service outages and ii the identified weather conditions for the respective service outages providing to the trained machine learning system data for a particular utility system in response to providing the data for the particular utility system receiving from the trained machine learning system output indicating estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system and providing for display information that indicates the estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system.

Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices. A system of one or more computers can be so configured by virtue of software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be so configured by virtue having instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example accessing the outage data includes accessing outage data that indicates electric power outages of multiple different electric utility systems the outage data indicating for each of the electric power outages i an outage type selected from a set of multiple different outage types and ii a cause attributed to the electric power outage that is selected from a set of multiple different outage causes. Training the machine learning system includes training the machine learning system to generate given a set of weather conditions and system characteristics outputs that include probabilities that electrical power outages will occur at different electric utility systems or different geographic locations in response to the set of weather conditions. The outputs further indicate outage types from the set of multiple outage types that are likely in response to the set of weather conditions and outage causes from the set of multiple different outage causes that are likely in response to the set of weather conditions. The multiple different outage causes include items such as vandalism accident fire excavation lightning wildlife weather vegetation or equipment failure. The multiple different outage types include items such as a pole outage a transformer failure or a phase failure.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example training the machine learning system to estimate effects of weather conditions on utility systems includes training the machine learning system to provide based on information about a utility system a system score or resiliency curve that is indicative of resiliency of the utility system in response to one or more weather conditions or other conditions. Providing to the trained machine learning system the data for the particular utility system includes providing an identifier for the particular utility system a geographic location associated with the particular utility system or data indicating characteristics of the particular utility system. Receiving from the trained machine learning system output indicating estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system includes receiving a system score for the particular utility system. Providing for display information that indicates the estimated effects of future or pending weather conditions on the particular utility system includes providing the system score or resiliency curve of the particular utility system for display. This score or curve can be created for different system components or collections of system components. For example the score or curve may indicateparticular feeder s resistance to outages caused by varying wind strength or direction.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include receiving from the trained machine learning system a system score for each of multiple different utility systems. The method may include grouping the utility systems into multiple different groups based on the system scores for the multiple different utility systems the multiple different groups comprising a group that includes the particular utility system and one or more other utility systems. The method may include estimating an amount of time needed to restore service after a service outage in the particular utility system based on service restoration times for the one or more other utility systems that are in the group that includes the particular utility system. The method may include providing for display the estimated amount of time needed to restore service after a service outage in the particular utility system.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example training the machine learning system to estimate effects of weather conditions on utility systems includes training the machine learning system to estimate given a geographic location and one or more weather conditions effects of the one or more weather conditions in causing service outages at the geographic location. The method may include accessing data indicating a set of weather conditions receiving from the trained machine learning system outputs indicating estimated effects of the set of weather conditions at multiple different geographic locations generating based on the outputs of the machine learning system a map that indicates different effects of the set of weather at the different geographic locations and providing the map for display. Accessing data indicating a set of weather conditions includes accessing data indicating a forecast of future weather conditions receiving from the trained machine learning system outputs indicating estimated effects of the set of weather conditions at multiple different geographic locations includes receiving outputs indicating probabilities that service outages will occur as a result of the forecasted weather conditions and generating the map includes generating a map that indicates the probabilities that service outages will occur as a result of the forecasted weather conditions. Accessing data indicating a set of weather conditions includes receiving user input indicating weather conditions machine to machine communications providing system or weather data receiving from the trained machine learning system outputs indicating estimated effects of the set of weather conditions at multiple different geographic locations includes receiving outputs indicating probabilities that service outages will occur as a result of the weather conditions indicated by the user input and generating the map includes generating a map that indicates the probabilities that service outages will occur as a result of the weather conditions indicated by the user input.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example training the machine learning system to estimate effects of the one or more weather conditions includes training the machine learning system to provide an output that indicates a likelihood of occurrence of a service outage an estimate of a duration of a service outage an estimate of number of customers affected by a service outage or an estimate of an area affected by a service outage. The method includes generating for a particular utility system or a particular geographic location a recommendation for conducting maintenance placing of equipment or crew or budgeting where the recommendation is based at least in part on output of the machine learning system. Training the machine learning system includes training a machine learning system that includes an artificial neural network a support vector machine a decision tree a regression model a maximum entropy classifier or a model based on a genetic algorithm or a model based on a clustering algorithm. Training can include training a set of customized statistical models that group utilities based on underlying data patterns over time.

In another general aspect a method includes receiving outage data indicating service outages associated with a utility processing the received outage data storing the processed outage data receiving a request determining information relevant to the request using the stored outage data and providing the determined information in response to the request.

Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices. A system of one or more computers can be so configured by virtue of software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be so configured by virtue having instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example receiving the request comprises receiving data indicating filter parameters that specify a subset of the stored outage data. Determining information relevant to the request comprises determining the information relevant to the request based on the subset of the stored outage data. The method includes receiving additional information from a computing system over a network. Determining the information relevant to the request comprises generating a prediction or recommendation for the utility based on the additional information. Determining the information relevant to the request includes inputting information regarding a utility to a machine learning module that has been trained based on the stored outage data receiving output from the machine learning module and determining a prediction or recommendation based on the output of the machine learning module. Determining the information relevant to the request comprises generating one or more statistical measures a chart a graph a map or a list of service outages.

Other implementations of this and other aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices. A system of one or more computers can be so configured by virtue of software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be so configured by virtue of having instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A reliability tracking system can assist service utilities and other service providers in collecting categorizing and reporting information about services provided. For example the tracking system may be used to obtain and process information about electric utility service outages and to generate reports in response to queries. As discussed further below various aspects of the tracking system can be used to provide insights to service providers. For example the tracking system can use collected data to classify events service providers and service regions. As another example the tracking system can provide predictions of maintenance needs the likelihood and extent of service disruptions and times for service restoration. The tracking system can also provide recommendations to improve service for example measures to proactively limit the extent of future service disruptions and measures to respond effectively to severe weather and other forecasted disruptions.

The system also includes client devices a computing system and a network . The client devices can be any of for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a cellular phone a smart phone a tablet computer a music player an e book reader a navigation system a smart meter a smart substation relay a smart appliance a remote weather station or other device. The functions performed by the computing systems can be performed by individual computer systems or can be distributed across multiple computer systems. The network can be wired or wireless or a combination of both and may include private networks and or public networks such as the Internet.

In the example of the tracking system provides data such as web pages or other resources that can provide user interfaces for interacting with the tracking system . Examples of user interfaces that may be provided are shown in . These user interfaces can be displayed on the client devices allowing users to enter data about service outages and the data is transmitted to the tracking system .

In some implementations a user uses one of the client devices to navigate to a web page provided by the tracking system . The user logs in with a user name and password and after the tracking system authenticates the user the user is provided access to various aspects of the tracking system. For example the user may then create records of outages view outage data and request reports as discussed further below.

When a user or machine provides information about an outage the tracking system stores the information in data storage for example a database or other data storage system. The tracking system can store and process information about outages from multiple service providers and geographic regions. The tracking system can use the aggregated data to provide insight to service providers beyond what could be determined from considering only the data of a single service provider. The tracking system may use aggregated information for example to classify service providers and service regions and to make recommendations or predictions to assist the service providers.

In some implementations the tracking system requests data from other sources such as the computing system to determine insights and provide data to users. For example the tracking system may request current forecasted or historical weather information from a source of weather data. As another example the tracking system may request information about social networking posts search queries or other information that can indicate current trends or topics of interest. The tracking system can use the additional data along with outage data collected from one service provider or multiple service providers for prediction classification mapping forecasting and providing insight into business decisions in uncertain contexts.

The tracking system receives outage data . For example the tracking system received input provided by a user or machine that indicates that an outage has occurred. The outage data may include for example one or more of a location of the outage a time and date the outage began a time and date the outage ended and a cause of the outage. The outage data may also include for example a number of customers affected characteristics of the system that is affected and other details. For an electric utility the outage data may indicate for example a substation and circuit affected by the outage a system voltage a circuit type an amount of load interrupted and other information. The tracking system may receive information about outages associated with different utilities.

The tracking system processes the outage data . For example the tracking system can aggregate the received outage data with other outage data from the same service provider or service area. The tracking system may also aggregate the received data with outage data from other service providers that are determined to have similar characteristics. For example data may be aggregated from two service providers that have similar resiliency curves and machine adjusted definitions or major events. The tracking system then stores the processed outage data .

The tracking system receives a request . The request may be a query or other submission. For example a user may request a report about outages associated with the user s utility. The request may specify a time range outage type set of outage causes or other parameters that indicate the type of information desired and the set of outage data to be used in generating a response.

Using the stored outage data the tracking system determines information relevant to the request . For example where a user has selected a time range for a report the tracking system identifies records of outages that occurred within the specified time range. Similarly if the user has specified a particular outage cause the tracking system identifies outage records that list the specified cause. The tracking system may generate a variety of types of information in response to the request including statistics charts graphs maps and so on.

The tracking system provides the determined information in response to the request . In some implementations the tracking system may provide information from specific records determined to be relevant to the user s request. As an example the information provided may include individual records of specific outages. As another example the information may include information about events that represent groups of multiple outages. The information may include statistics graphs maps or other analysis results that the tracking system generates based on the stored outage data. The information provided may include recommendations or predictions that the tracking system generates based on the stored outage data.

The tracking system received a request . For example the tracking system may receive a query or other submission from one of the client devices . The request may be associated with particular utility for example the utility associated with a user that has logged into the system.

The tracking system accesses stored outage data . The tracking system may access records of outages corresponding to the particular utility associated with the request. The tracking system may also access records of other utilities for example utilities that have characteristics in common with the particular utility.

The tracking system also accesses additional data . The additional data can be requested and received from one or more other computing systems or independent data providers. Examples of additional data that may be obtained include geographic data weather data Internet search query data social media data news data and government agency data e.g. from the Public Utilities Commission PUC or Energy Information Administration EIA .

Using the outage data and the additional data the tracking system may generate one or more predictions regarding the utility . For example based on weather forecasts and the particular utility s history of outages during similar weather conditions the tracking system can predict the effects of a current or future storm such as the likely number of customers affected the locations and type of equipment affected and the duration of the outages.

Using the outage data and the additional data the tracking system may generate one or more recommendations for the utility . For example the tracking system may recommend preventative maintenance based on the age of the utility s infrastructure and causes of recent outages. As another example the tracking system may recommend requesting assistance through mutual aid agreements or may recommend locations to place line trucks or other equipment to deal with predicted outages.

The tracking system provides the predictions and or recommendations in response to the request . The information provided can assist the utility to respond quickly to new outages and to take preventative steps to avoid outages.

In some implementations rather than providing information in response to a request the tracking system may provide information in response to determining that a predetermined set of conditions has occurred. For example the tracking system may monitor weather data and when a particular set of weather conditions is forecasted or occurs the tracking system can provide recommendations or predictions to utilities that may be affected.

The user interface includes various controls for inputting the location of an outage such as an input field for an address . The controls can also include drop down boxes that allow a user to select a substation and a circuit to specify the location.

The user interface allows the user to input the cause of the outage for example by selecting the cause from a predetermined list such as with drop down list or entering text. Causes of outages may include for example actions by the public e.g. vandalism human accident vehicle accident contact with an object non utility fire or non utility excavation natural causes e.g. lightning wildlife etc. weather conditions e.g. storm ice heat wind etc. vegetation e.g. trees vines etc. equipment failures e.g. electrical failure wear damage manufacturing defect etc. power supply issues e.g. overload loss of generating unit or failure of greater transmission etc. utility human error e.g. construction maintenance operations etc. scheduled interruptions e.g. commercial construction residential construction road construction etc. non customer requests e.g. by the police department or fire department customer activities e.g. non payment relocation repairs etc. utility maintenance or repairs e.g. load swap equipment maintenance etc. In some implementations users may input the general category for the cause such as natural causes and in some implementations users may alternatively enter a more specific cause such as wildlife or squirrel. More specific cause entries retain the more general cause tree information. For example cause squirrel contains in it the more general cause information unscheduled as well as the slightly more detailed cause information wildlife . Various causes of outages are shown in .

The user interface also includes controls that allow a user to input details about the outage. For example the controls can include input fields to receive a number of customers without service a time and time the outage began and a time and date the outage ended. The user can also indicate for example whether the end of the outage is a partial restoration of service which indicates that the recorded outage is one of several related to a larger restoration event and whether to treat that event as relating to a single cause or multiple causes

The user interface includes controls for entering system characteristics of the area of the system affected by the outage. Drop down lists text input fields or other controls can be provided to receive information about for example descriptive characteristics e.g. whether power delivery is overhead or underground system voltage at the site a circuit type e.g. radial primary loop primary selective secondary selective spot network etc. the number and phase of electrical wires impacted an amount of load interrupted e.g. in kilovolt amps KVA and a total number of customers affected .

The user interface may also include controls that permit the user to enter other details such as key accounts without service how the outage was reported to the service provider and a total number of work hours needed to complete restoration of service .

When the user or machine has entered the applicable information about the outage and the affected system the user can submit the information to the tracking system for example by clicking a button or otherwise interacting with the user interface . The information entered about the outage is stored by the tracking system and can be used to provide reports and other information as well as to generate classifications recommendations and predictions.

The user interface also includes controls that permit the user to select one or more outage records and a control to initiate an action for the selected outage records. For example a user may select multiple outage records and delete the selected outages or group the selected outages as part of a single event. The user may also search among the outages by entering a query in a query input field .

In some implementations a user interface is provided that indicates events where each event represents one or more individual outage records. The events or groups of outages may be viewed searched and managed in the same manner as individual outages.

The user interface includes a control such as a drop down box that permits the user to indicate a type of equipment action to be recorded by the system. Examples of actions include repair replacement testing failure or restoration. The user interface includes another control that permits the user to indicate which equipment is involved. The list of equipment that is tracked may be customized by a user or utility. For example one utility may decide to track the failure and replacement of fuses and another utility may not. The user interface includes an input field in which a user can enter notes about the equipment and the action being recorded.

When a user selects an equipment action additional controls corresponding to the selected action may be provided. For example for a restoration action a note control permits the user to enter additional notes a status control allows the user to indicate whether protection equipment operated correctly and an input field permits the user to indicate a number of operations of protective equipment that have occurred.

When the user or machine has finished entering information about the equipment action the user can use a control to cause the tracking system to record the information. Information about equipment can be used to track the performance of equipment and make estimates for future repair or replacement needs. In some implementations the equipment information can be used to recommend maintenance schedules or inventories. The tracking system may use monthly or seasonal trends to indicate for example the amount of replacement fuses or other equipment that is typically needed for a given month or season allowing the utility to stock equipment appropriately. The information may also be used to assess quality of components and estimate the frequency of future repair needs. For example the tracking system may analyze the equipment action history for a utility and identify that types of equipment that have failed at a higher than expected rate e.g. more often than other comparable equipment .

In some implementations the tracking system may correlate records of equipment actions to identify equipment actions corresponding to similar outages or outages with similar restoration characteristics. The tracking system may also correlate equipment actions with weather data or other information. For example the tracking system may estimate the likely equipment needs following a forecasted storm based on characteristics of previous storms and the repair replacement and restoration actions that followed those storms. As discussed further below equipment information and other information for a single utility or multiple utilities service providers may be used with a statistical analysis and machine learning module to generate predictions and recommendations.

The user interface allows the user to select from various different types of reports. Some of the reports that may be generated include a report of IEEE 1366 statistics a Customer Average Interruption Duration Index CAIDI report a System Average Interruption Duration Index SAIDI report a System Average Interruption Frequency Index SAIFI report or a report of outage causes. Other possible reports include analysis of outage causes by interruptions and duration. For some users reporting on multiple utilities service providers may occur.

After selecting the desired type of report the user may use filter controls to specify the set of outage data to be used in generating the report. In some implementations reports are generated based on data regarding only outages in the service provider s region of service. For example the reports shown to an electric utility may reflect only outages for customers of that particular utility.

When requesting a report the user can filter the data used to generate the report for example outages in a particular time range or outages with particular characteristics. The controls allow the user to indicate a start date and an end date so only outages occurring between the start date and end date will be considered in generating the report. The controls also allow the user to indicate whether to exclude major events based on one or more statistical methods such as unusual or extraordinary outages that are uncharacteristic for the utility. The user can also set a minimum outage duration so that very brief outages can be excluded. The user can also limit the outages used to generate the report to outages having a particular outage cause e.g. weather wildlife equipment failure etc. . The controls also allow the user to specify a location or portion of infrastructure for example by specifying a substation and or circuit that the report should describe. In some implementations the user interface may allow the user to input locations in other ways for example by indicating a county city zip code address or other region.

After the parameters for the report have been entered the user can interact with a button or other control to generate a report. In response the tracking system identifies the data relevant to the parameters that the user has specified generates the report and provides the report to the user s device. The user may alternatively interact with other controls to download or print the report or the subset of data used to generate the report.

In the example of the user interface includes various reliability statistics including an Average Service Availability Index ASAI value a CAIDI value a System Average Interruption Duration Index SAIDI value and a System Average Interruption Frequency Index SAIFI value .

In the example of a user interface includes a set of filter controls allow a user to select a relevant data set and information about the selected data is shown below for example in a pie chart or a ranked list . In the example the chart and the list provide visualizations of the breakdown of outage causes that affect a particular utility. The user may select a particular cause by interacting with a portion of the chart or with an item in the list to view additional information about the outages considered attributed to that particular cause.

In the example of a user interface allows users to access reports regarding multiple different service providers. For example if a user is authorized to access information about multiple utilities a control allowing the user to access multi utility statistics is displayed. The control is not provided to users who are authorized to access data for only a single utility. The user interface also includes a control permitting the user to select a set of utilities to include in an analysis. The control may indicate or list only the utilities for which the user is permitted to access data. The tracking system then generates various analysis results based on the user s selections. For example the system can include results for each selected utility individually as well as overall results for the selected set of utilities in the aggregate. For example the analysis results in line are based on the aggregated data from multiple utilities as if the events were all associated with a single utility. For example to calculate SAIDI metrics for the set of utilities the system may sum the durations for all events for the three selected utilities and divide by the sum of the number of customers for the three utilities.

In the example of a user interface shows an example of a monthly report e.g. a report of a service provider s performance or statistics for the prior month. Similar reports may be provided for any time period e.g. a previous month a specified quarter the past year or a prior year etc. The user interface is interactive and includes controls that allow the user to define parameters of the data set to be included in the statistics shown below. For example the user may select a control to indicate whether the report should cover the performance of the service provider over the last 12 months. For example a control permits a user to select whether to toggle between showing charts and rankings in terms of outage counts or outage durations. For example the user can select whether a circuit listing should rank circuits by count of outages or duration of outages and similarly whether a pie chart indicating causes of outages should be based on the counts of outages for each cause or the durations of outages for each cause.

The statistics can include a list of the worst performing circuits for example a predefined number of the worst performing circuits according to a metric such as number of customer interruptions. The statistics can include a table that compares various metrics for the current analysis period e.g. the prior month with corresponding metrics for the prior period e.g. the month before the prior month. A similar comparison may be shown with charts graphs and tables to show data for one period relative to data from another period. Throughout the interface controls can be placed to permit the user to request more detailed information for example about a particular circuit or location a particular outage cause or a particular outage event.

In some implementations information may be provided and received over an application programming interface API or other machine interface in addition to or instead of through user interfaces for human users. For example automated systems may detect service outages and record the outages with the tracking system without any human interaction with the system. Any of the information provided or received through the user interfaces shown in and discussed herein may be provided or received through machine interfaces.

In some implementations machine learning techniques can be used to classify utilities and service regions. For example machine learning algorithms may discover outage cause duration thresholds and resiliency boundaries. As another example systems with similar resistance to similar outage causes can be grouped despite their geographical or operational dissimilarities. Clustering algorithms can be used to identify patterns in the data and find utilities that have similar characteristics. In some implementations a machine learning module can be trained to predict effects of storms and other events and to provide recommendations.

The system includes the tracking system and a machine learning module . Using service outage data and additional information the tracking system can train the machine learning module to predict outcomes based on a set of input conditions. The outage data can be used as training data for training the machine learning module . The outage data provides many examples of the characteristics of outages and the conditions at the time of the outages. Certain types of information from the outage records can be designated as desired outputs of the machine learning module and other outage data and additional context from the additional data may be used as the inputs.

For example the output of the machine learning module can be values that represent effects of storms such as the number of customers that lose power the duration of outages the locations of outages and so on. The machine learning module may be configured to accept input various parameters that indicate weather characteristics e.g. wind speed direction precipitation amount temperature etc. infrastructure characteristics e.g. system age outage history etc. geospatial characteristics e.g. latitude and longitude of outages and or equipment and other conditions. To train the machine learning module the tracking system inputs the weather infrastructure and other conditions corresponding to previous outage and uses the actual outage characteristics or a probability score or other measure of utility performance as a target or correct output. The tracking system adjusts the weights or other parameters of the machine learning module so that the set of input produces the target output or an approximation of the target output for each utility or service provider then across entities. The tracking system repeats the adjustment process with different historical outages so that the machine learning module is exposed to many different sets of input conditions and the actual results corresponding to those conditions. Training can be continued until the outputs of the machine learning module are within a desired range of the target outputs.

In some implementations training is performed using a supervised learning procedure may be used where the actual outage characteristics represent a label associated with the set of input. The labels or target outputs may represent for example a state or condition of a particular piece of equipment geographic location or utility system. Alternatively the target output may represent a probability such as a probability of an outage having a particular cause or a more general value representing a characteristic of a portion of a utility system or a utility system as a whole.

After training is complete the tracking system can use the machine learning module to predict outcomes or generate recommendations for new conditions. For example the tracking system can provide weather data and current system characteristics to the trained machine learning module and receive outputs that indicate predicted effects of storms or recommended actions for dealing with the storms. The tracking system may provide these predictions or recommendations to the utilities that may be affected by storms or other events.

In some implementations the tracking system can predict the intensity and cause of service outages in response to impending weather events. To make these predictions the tracking system can use for example outage data for specific utilities aggregated outage data for multiple utilities location data and weather data.

For example a user may desire information about the effects of an impending storm on a particular utility. The tracking system can request and receive weather data that indicates the characteristics of the storm such as current or forecasted information about precipitation wind intensity wind direction and temperature. The tracking system also accesses stored utility data about the utility of interest such as historic performance of the utility in storms similar to the type indicated in the weather data. The tracking system also accesses aggregated data about how other similar utilities have performed during storms of the same type. In some implementations the tracking system may apply weights to the data to emphasize certain factors. For example it may be determined that wind intensity is more correlated to outages than wind direction and so a higher weight may be applied to wind intensity than to wind direction.

From this information the tracking system may estimate or predict the impact of the storm on the particular utility. For example the number of customers affected the locations affected and the duration of outages may be predicted. To generate predictions the tracking system may identify patterns in the data and provide estimates based on those patterns. For example if storms of the same precipitation historically caused 2 000 customers to lose power on average the tracking system may predict that the current storm will cause 2 000 customers to lose power.

As another example the tracking system may input weather data and utility data to a machine learning system that has been trained to predict the effects of storms. The machine learning module may be trained using aggregated data for multiple utilities and or historical data for the particular utility of interest. In response to input indicating storm characteristics the machine learning module may output values indicating estimated effects of the storm.

In some implementations the tracking system generates an expected response rating based on severity of storm utility historical performance and historical performance of similar utilities. The tracking system may suggest resiliency improvements based on the characterization of storms and outages caused. For example the tracking system may suggest preventative measures for dealing with a storm such as requesting additional staff crews from neighboring utilities or contract crews to be ready to deal with predicted outages.

The tracking system may generate maps that indicate estimates of outages and damage types for the utility s territory. As an example the tracking system may provide a predicted outage intensity map with an epicenter s which may allow the utility to place linetrucks and other pre storm response items. As another example a map may indicate estimates of equipment damage such as a number of utility poles that are likely to be damaged in various areas.

Referring again to the tracking system may use customer service usage data and Internet search data to provide insight into customer anxiety regarding storm and suggests pre storm communications. For example the tracking system can examine search query logs to determine how frequently customers in a service area have searched for weather or utility related terms such as storm power outage severe weather and so on. The tracking system may use social media posts in the same manner. In some implementations the tracking system can distinguish queries or social media posts initiated with a mobile device from those submitted with a desktop computer. Increasing mobile submissions that are storm related may indicate a higher level of customer anxiety.

After a storm has occurred the tracking system may use information about reported outages to suggest post storm communications to customers. Or may allow users to post outage crisis data for use by other public service entities and the general public. For example given the utility s prior responsiveness when facing similar outage scenarios the tracking system may suggest how soon service is likely to be restored for various regions that the utility services and provide more generalized data for use in communicating outage significance to the public.

In some implementations the tracking system may monitor weather forecasts and estimate the severity of storms or other large events. When the likelihood of an outage exceeds a threshold the tracking system may notify customers e.g. individuals and businesses of the storm and the possibility of an upcoming power outage. The tracking system may also notify utilities that will potentially be affected by a forecasted or developing storm. The tracking system may use storm weather data storm location and path analysis and regional energy market data to generate the predictions. In some instances price increases or other changes in energy markets may reflect the severity or impact of weather or other events.

In some implementations when a new service outage record is created safety procedures are initiated to ensure compliance at a jobsite. The tracking system may request tailboard data from field employees and communicates with management to keep them informed of procedures that are appropriate for the particular types of outages being addressed.

The tracking system can examine pole phase or transformer outage times along with weather data for scheduled and unscheduled outages. Based on statistics for outages and emergent outage properties for the utility the tracking system may recommend training for employees or specific additional maintenance such as vegetation care. The system may analyze aggregate performance data to estimate how a utility performs certain tasks in comparison to its peers. For example if a particular type of repair takes an hour longer for one utility than for other utilities nearby or similar utilities by other business metrics the tracking system may recommend training to improve the speed of that type of repair or may recommend equipment that could speed the repair.

In some implementations the tracking system performs adaptive reporting that allows cross comparison of utility data and computed statistical metrics. In some instances utilities use the IEEE 1366 2.5 Beta methodology to define a major outage event. However the beta value of 2.5 may not be ideal for all utilities. The tracking system can include an adaptive statistical analysis module that looks for a natural exclusion point for the 2.5 beta function. The analysis module finds minor deviations in the data that make more sense for each particular utility based on the historical data for each utility to create a new 2.0 3.0 beta function customized for an individual utility. This allows the utility to see its underlying outage reliability trend better over time.

The tracking system may assign each utility an appropriate beta function. Utilities with similar beta functions may be categorized and clustered based on their assigned beta functions. Utilities with similar beta functions can be connected with notifications. The system allows users to find new insight into how they should evaluate the relative intensity of an outage on their particular system.

In some implementations assigned beta functions can be used to define groups of similar utilities for purposes of predicting the effects of storms as discussed above. Some utilities may be distant in location or size yet may have other similarities that result in similar beta functions. As an example utilities assigned beta values within a particular range e.g. 2.0 2.2 or 2.2 2.4 or 2.4 2.6 etc. can be grouped together.

In some implementations major events defined using a utility s customized beta function may be analyzed by count and intensity. The geography and historical weather patterns for the service are can be retrieved for example from an independent source. The major event data and system data can be combined to generate a map of natural major event topography by region to help utilities better understand their natural major event threshold for their utility.

Utilities may also use major event statistics to evaluate why they have more or fewer major events than other utilities. The tracking system may evaluate major event counts geography data and historical weather patterns to identify and highlight aspects that differ from averages or characteristics of various groups of utilities. This may give an indication of how comparable a utility s reliability statistics will be with the reliability data of other utilities.

The tracking system may include a customer sensitivity module that suggests business and political prioritization of outage restoration. For example the tracking system may determine that there is a high priority to restore power to a hospital or fire station and to certain customers that provide a large source of revenue for the utility. The tracking system may calculate a customer value for individual customers in the service area. The customer value may be estimated based on factors such as income tax and property tax data census data voting records customer outage history and or electric usage patterns. The tracking system may provide a list of important customers based on the estimated values or a map indicating the regions where the estimated value of restoration to the customer is highest. This information may help a utility navigate the political and economic implications for restoration prioritization.

The tracking system may be used to provide other recommendations to utilities. For example using location information outage data and transmission loss data e.g. from the Information Administration EIA or another source the tracking system may estimate trends and norms for equipment sizing and circuit layout characteristics. The tracking system may compare data for different utilities to help a utility assess its losses and outages relative to other utilities or groups of utilities.

The tracking system may provide estimates of staffing needs or other human resources decisions based on weather patterns and outage patterns. The tracking system may use outage data such as outage duration the time of year and weather forecasts to estimate staffing needs.

The tracking system may use outage data such as locations causes times and particular substations affected to provide predictive recommendations. For example the tracking system may recommend measures to deal with equipment issues like pole breaks or to deal with animal migrations. Animal migrations can be mapped by season across various regions. For example the effect of a drey of squirrels may be predicted by extrapolating seasonal squirrel migration movements to predict where clusters of squirrel related outages will next appear. Once appearance is predicted preventative measures are suggested to utilities that may be affected. For example the tracking system may recommend the use of squirrel guards or covered wire.

The tracking system may evaluate combinations of various outage parameters to suggest where certain maintenance actions should be performed. For example based on outage length outage location outage causes and circuit layouts the tracking system may suggest where conversion from overhead power lines to underground power lines would be most effective at preventing future outages. Similarly the tracking system may suggest locations where extensive tree trimming may be needed instead of spot trimming or where bush planting or tree planting is best. For example it may be recommended that a utility give away or recommend a certain type of tree to customers in order to reduce outages in an area.

The tracking system may compare utility trends to national trends from Public Utility Commission data. The tracking system may perform pattern matching between the data of various utilities to help utilities make benchmarking comparisons to other utilities with similar characteristics. Different utilities or infrastructure may be compared according to for example EIA form energy loss data. As another example utilities can be compared with other utilities with the same classification as determined by assigned beta functions or by machine learning algorithms as discussed above.

Weather data is accessed . The weather data can indicate different weather conditions occurring in a geographic area over a range of time. For example the weather data may indicate weather patterns occurring over a time period such as a day a week a month a year 5 years 10 years and so on. Weather data may be accessed from data storage or from one or more servers. The weather data can indicate conditions such as temperature amount of precipitation type of precipitation e.g. rain sleet snow hail etc. wind characteristics lightning water levels solar activity and barometric pressure.

Outage data is accessed . The outage data can indicate service outages occurring in the geographic area over the range of time. The outage data can be data received by the tracking system from multiple different utility systems. For each service outage the outage data can indicate a corresponding time the outage occurred a corresponding utility system and a corresponding geographic location in the geographic area where the outage occurred. The geographic location may be provided in any of a variety of different forms including for example geographic coordinates such as Global Positioning System GPS coordinates an address a city a state a zip code a substation identifier a circuit identifier or other location identifier.

The outage data may indicate other information about the service outages such as an outage cause that is attributed to the outage an outage type and or information about the severity of the outage e.g. a duration that the outage continued a cost or repair needed to restore service or an amount of customers affected by the outage or a geographic area affected by the outage.

Based on the weather data and the outage data weather conditions corresponding to the different outages are identified . For example for each of the service outages the tracking system may identify one or more weather conditions that occurred at the corresponding geographic location of the service outage at the corresponding time of occurrence of the service outage. The identified weather conditions may indicate weather that occurred at the time the outage began or at a time slightly before the outage began e.g. a predetermined period of 15 minutes an hour four hours a day or a week before the outage began. In some instances weather occurring significantly before an outage can be identified for example one or more months before the outage occurred. This information can be correlated with outages to identify causes of outages that may be affected by weather and other events much earlier than the actual outage. For example warm weather that comes unusually early in spring may result in increases in squirrel populations which could result in greater numbers of squirrel caused service outages in summer and fall. For example warmer fall weather combined with a cold snap could lead to leaves being on the trees when the first ice hits and could result in longer duration outages than expected.

A machine learning system is trained using the weather data and the outage data . For example the machine learning system may be trained to estimate effects of weather conditions on utility systems using i the respective service outages and ii the identified weather conditions for the respective service outages. The estimated effects of weather conditions may include for example likelihoods of service outages at different geographic locations estimated duration of service outages areas affected by service outages amounts of customers affected by service outages and or likelihoods that service outages may be of particular types or have particular causes.

Training can involve adjusting the parameters of the machine learning module of or another machine learning system to reflect probabilities of service outages according to the service outage events in the outage data. Individual service outages and their corresponding weather conditions can be used to train the system to estimate the effects of specific weather conditions for specific utilities and geographic areas. Training can include training a machine learning system that includes an artificial neural network a support vector machine a decision tree a regression model a maximum entropy classifier a set of statistical models or a model based on a genetic algorithm or a model based on a clustering algorithm.

The machine learning system may be trained to produce any of a variety of outputs. In some implementations the machine learning system is trained to output a probability of a service outage occurring in response to receiving input designating a set of weather conditions and data identifying a particular utility system or geographic location. The trained machine learning system may additionally or alternatively provide data by outage type and or outage cause for example by indicating probabilities that outages of different outage types will occur and or probabilities that different potential outage causes will affect a utility system or geographic location. Outages can have various different causes as shown in and outages can be categorized or classified in various ways. shows examples of different classifications starting with a general level as indicated in the column Cause level 1 as well as more specific sub categories as shown in the columns for cause levels 2 3 and 4. The machine learning system may be trained to generate outputs with respect to individual causes for any of the individual items shown in or for groups of multiple causes.

In some implementations the machine learning system is trained to generate a system weather resiliency index that characterizes system state and potential vulnerabilities of a utility system. The system state can be a measure of relative robustness against disturbances which may be affected by the construction type used at various parts of a power delivery network and the utility system s aggregate ability to recover from different types of disturbances. For example the system state may be an aggregate description of system health such as an emergent property of all the construction engineering and cost decisions that have been made over time. The system weather resiliency index may be generated by outage type and outage cause. For example the machine learning system may be able to generate for each utility system a corresponding resiliency index for each of multiple different outage types or for each of multiple different outage causes or for each possible combination of outage type and outage cause.

In some implementations the machine learning system is trained to provide outputs that include a likelihood of occurrence of a service outage an estimate of a duration of a service outage an estimate of number of customers affected by a service outage and or an estimate of an area affected by a service outage.

Data for a particular utility system is provided to the trained machine learning system . Depending on the training process used different inputs may be provided. For example the data may include an identifier of a utility system. The data may include one or more geographic locations corresponding to the utility system. The data may include data indicating characteristics of the utility system such as system age construction type geography type or other information about the physical characteristics of the utility system. The information may include a classification of the utility system an identifier for a group of utility systems that includes the particular utility system or a beta value determined for the utility system.

In response to providing the data for the particular utility system output is received from the trained machine learning system . For example the output may indicate estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system. The output may indicate estimated effects including probabilities of outages or other events.

The information that indicates the estimated effects of future weather conditions on the particular utility system is provided for display . The information may be provided any of various forms such as in a number a table a chart a graph or a map. The data may be provided locally at the tracking system or remotely for example over a network to one or more client devices. In addition recommendations can be made using the output of the machine learning system. For example recommendations can be made for conducting maintenance placing of equipment or crew or budgeting to address potential service outages or other effects of weather. The recommendations may be determined at least in part based on output of the machine learning system and or information about utility systems different from the particular utility system.

In some implementations the outage data indicates electric power outages of multiple different electric utility systems. The outage data may indicate for each of the electric power outages i an outage type selected from a set of multiple different outage types and ii a cause attributed to the electric power outage that is selected from a set of multiple different outage causes. The machine learning system can be trained to generate given a set of weather conditions outputs that include probabilities that electrical power outages will occur at different electric utility systems or different geographic locations in response to the set of weather conditions. The outputs of the machine learning system may indicate outage types from the set of multiple outage types and outage causes from the set of multiple different outage causes that are likely in response to the set of weather conditions. The multiple different outage causes comprise vandalism accident fire excavation lightning wildlife weather vegetation equipment failure or any of the other outage causes discussed with respect to . The multiple different outage types include a pole outage a transformer failure or a phase failure.

In some implementations the machine learning system is trained to provide based on information about a utility system a system score that is indicative of resiliency of the utility system in response to one or more weather conditions. The data provided to the machine learning system can include an identifier for the particular utility system a geographic location associated with the particular utility system or data indicating characteristics of the particular utility system. The system score for the particular utility may be received and provided for display.

In some implementations a system score is generated for each of multiple different utility systems. The utility systems are then grouped into multiple different groups based on the system scores. Estimates and recommendations for a utility system may be generated using information about the other utility systems in the same group. For example an amount of time needed to restore service after a service outage in the particular utility system may be estimated based on service restoration times for the one or more other utility systems that are in the group that includes the particular utility system. The estimates or recommendations may then be provided for display.

In some implementations the machine learning system may be used to estimate the effects of particular weather conditions on a utility system. For example the machine learning system can be trained to produce given a geographic location and one or more weather conditions output indicating likely effects of the one or more weather conditions in causing service outages at the geographic location. Data indicating a set of weather conditions can be accessed. These weather conditions may be a forecast of future weather historical weather conditions such as those occurring during a particular storm or at a particular time or a set of weather conditions specified by user input. Outputs of the machine learning system may indicate estimated effects of the set of weather conditions at multiple different geographic locations e.g. potential damage or disruption at different utility systems and or at different locations within a single utility system. Based on the outputs a map showing outages and different effects at different geographic locations can be generated. For example a heat map showing varying probabilities of a service outage occurring can be shown. The map can be provided for display.

The analysis using the machine learning system can include a variety of types of information. For example data of solar observations may be incorporated since solar patterns can impact system performance. This information can be used to examine the impact of geo magnetic disturbances induced by solar flares or other aspects of solar cycles. As a result the system can account for various types of high impact low frequency events that may impact utilities. In addition the information used in training and generating estimates may take into account data indicating different location specific power generation and disturbance sources. For example the number of photovoltaic installations in a region may be identified and may be correlated with outage severity and duration to examine the extent that areas with solar power generation are affected. In some instances areas with larger amounts of solar power generation may experience shorter outages after storms.

In general machine learning algorithms can be used to form an estimated matrix of probabilities used to predict the utility service impact of weather patterns including storms or other natural phenomena. Results may be recalculated as needed and applied against projected weather data as the data is available to help users determine possible courses of action to prepare or plan for future events. As discussed above the outputs provided to users can include estimations of system state e.g. system health and vulnerability of a utility system to various different types of disturbances. Weather data are related with outage data and other calculated indices and patterns are presented to the user. For example one output may indicate system health versus storm strength on a geospatial basis using a heat map a topography map or other graphic. The information in the map may be informed by analysis of a specific group of utilities or events in a regional or national area rather than using only local data.

A machine learning algorithm can be applied to data from multiple utilities and the system can use differences in utility performance to suggest areas of improvement and relatively weak spots that are not directly evident on the system for utilities. The system may use geographic distance between utility systems climate similarity for utility systems outputs of the machine learning system and other data to group utilities according to similarity and calculate recommendations. By using data for multiple utility systems metrics determined by the system can indicate whether a utility s efforts are successful and can indicate additional patterns specific to that utility and other similar utilities. Grouping utilities can also provide enhanced business information by identifying differences in the root causes of electric service failure. For example information about how similar systems in various parts of the country handle restoration times for specific types of outages can be used to generate best practices and identify risk factors that can improve service in a variety of locations.

In some implementations a user can obtain data about a utility system as follows. The user can log in to the user s account. If there are outages to report the user can enter information about the outages using the reporting features discussed above for example using the user interfaces of . The user may obtain a system analysis report which may include a table of values used and a heat map of any of various factors calculated by the tracking system and the machine learning module . The map may show data for all of or a portion of geographic area spanned by the user s corresponding utility system.

The user may then input information to simulate the effects of for example different weather conditions or maintenance actions. The user may add or subtract layers of data and could change the assumptions and probabilities calculated by the machine learning algorithm. The user may refresh the map to see the impacts of weather related events or events related to specific outage causes. In some implementations the user may view the progressive impact of historic weather events on outages. For example different stages of a previous storm may be shown e.g. in time increments of 15 minutes 1 hour one day etc. and the status of corresponding outages at those times may be successively shown on the map. The user may select to specific causes of outages and see analysis from the machine learning system regarding patterns over different geographic areas including relationships between clusters of outages and probabilities of outage occurrence by different weather type.

In some implementations a user may be provided with suggestions and analysis based on data aggregated from multiple utility systems. For example utilities X Y and Z may be determined by the tracking system to be similar due to similarities in outage causes and weather data. The tracking system may determine aggregate or individual performance averages of these utilities under certain conditions such as wind speed of 50 MPH. The tracking system may then provide data that indicates whether the user s utility has more or fewer outages under similar conditions. The tracking system may provide data indicating differences between the user s utility and the other utilities which may help account for differences in performance or highlight areas of potential improvement.

In some implementations the tracking system accesses census information and provides planning estimates related to population growth and income distribution in a utility s geographic area. This information can be used to make recommendations for prioritizing service restoration or physical improvements for particular customers or areas.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The machine readable storage device may be a non transitory machine readable storage device. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. For example a social networking platform rather than an external application may perform employment analysis and provide employment information to users of the social networking platform. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

