---

title: Vehicle collision management responsive to adverse circumstances in an avoidance path
abstract: Described embodiments include a system and a method. A system includes an evaluation circuit configured to determine a characteristic of an adverse circumstance present in a possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The system includes a rating circuit configured to assign a risk value to the possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the adverse circumstance. The system includes an uncertainty assessment circuit configured to assign an uncertainty to the risk value. The system includes a threshold circuit configured to determine if the risk value of the possible collision avoidance path and the uncertainty in a combination meet a threshold criteria. The system includes a communication circuit configured to output the possible collision avoidance path as a selected collision avoidance path if the threshold criteria is met.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09139202&OS=09139202&RS=09139202
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09139202
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140121
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Domestic Benefit National Stage Information section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and of any and all applications related to the Priority Applications by priority claims directly or indirectly including any priority claims made and subject matter incorporated by reference therein as of the filing date of the instant application is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. The system includes an evaluation circuit configured to determine a characteristic of an adverse circumstance present in a possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The system includes a rating circuit configured to assign a risk value to the possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the adverse circumstance. The system includes a selector circuit including a rule set structured to select a collision avoidance path from at least two possible collision avoidance paths in response to an evaluation of a respective assigned risk value for each of the at least two possible collision avoidance paths.

In an embodiment the system includes a collision avoidance circuit configured to generate a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a collision avoidance circuit configured to generate at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat. In an embodiment the system includes a display device configured to display a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a vehicle operations controller configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes a sensor configured to acquire data indicative of the adverse circumstance present in the possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes another sensor configured to acquire data indicative of an environment or situation external to the vehicle.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes determining a characteristic of a first adverse circumstance present in a first possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The method includes assigning a first risk value to the first possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the first adverse circumstance. The method includes determining a characteristic of a second adverse circumstance present in a second possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. The method includes assigning a second risk value to the second possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the second adverse circumstance. The method includes selecting a collision avoidance path from the first possible collision avoidance path or the second possible collision avoidance path in response to an evaluation of the first risk value and the second risk value. The method includes outputting the selected collision avoidance path.

In an embodiment the method includes generating a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes generating at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat. In an embodiment the method includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the method includes acquiring data indicative of the first adverse circumstance present in the possible first collision avoidance path of the vehicle and acquiring data indicative of the second adverse circumstance present in the possible second collision avoidance path of the vehicle. In an embodiment the method includes saving the selected collision avoidance path in a computer readable medium.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes determining a characteristic of a first adverse circumstance present in a first possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The method includes assigning a first risk value to the first possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the first adverse circumstance. The method includes assigning a first uncertainty to the first risk value. The method includes determining a characteristic of a second adverse circumstance present in a second possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. The method includes assigning a second risk value to the second possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the second adverse circumstance. The method includes assigning a second uncertainty to the second risk value. The method includes selecting a collision avoidance path from the first possible collision avoidance path and the second possible collision avoidance path the selection responsive to an evaluation of the first risk value and the first uncertainty assigned to the first risk value relative to the second risk value and the second uncertainty assigned to the second risk value. The method includes outputting the selected collision avoidance path.

In an embodiment the method includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. The system includes an evaluation circuit configured to determine a characteristic of an adverse circumstance present in a possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The system includes a rating circuit configured to assign a risk value to the possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the adverse circumstance. The system includes an uncertainty assessment circuit configured to assign an uncertainty to the risk value. The system includes a threshold circuit configured to determine if the risk value of the possible collision avoidance path and the uncertainty in a combination meet a threshold criteria. The system includes a communication circuit configured to output the possible collision avoidance path as a selected collision avoidance path if the threshold criteria is met.

In an embodiment the system includes a collision avoidance circuit configured to generate at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat and an iteration manager circuit configured to initiate upon a determination that a first of the at least two possible collision avoidance paths does not meet the threshold criteria a determination if a second of the at least two collision avoidance paths meets the threshold criteria. In an embodiment the system includes an instruction generator configured to generate a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a display device configured to display a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a vehicle operations controller configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes a sensor configured to acquire data indicative of the adverse circumstance present in the possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes determining a characteristic of a first adverse circumstance present in a first possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The method includes assigning a first risk value to the first possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the first adverse circumstance. The method includes assigning a first uncertainty to the first risk value. The method includes determining if the first risk value of the first possible collision avoidance path and the first uncertainty in a combination meet a threshold criteria. The method includes outputting the first possible collision avoidance path as a selected collision avoidance path if the threshold criteria is met.

In an embodiment the method includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the method includes generating a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes determining a characteristic of a second adverse circumstance present in a second possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. In an embodiment the method includes assigning a second risk value to the second possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the second adverse circumstance. In an embodiment the method includes assigning a second uncertainty to the second risk value. In an embodiment the method includes determining if the second risk value of the second possible collision avoidance path and the second uncertainty in a combination meet the threshold criteria. In an embodiment the method includes outputting the second possible collision avoidance path as the selected collision avoidance path if the threshold criteria is met. In an embodiment the method includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes generating a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the method includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes determining a characteristic of a first adverse circumstance present in a first possible collision avoidance path of a vehicle. The method includes assigning a first risk value to the first possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the first adverse circumstance. The method includes assigning a first uncertainty to the first risk value. The method includes determining a characteristic of a second adverse circumstance present in a second possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. The method includes assigning a second risk value to the second possible collision avoidance path responsive to the determined characteristic of the second adverse circumstance. The method includes assigning a second uncertainty to the second risk value. The method includes establishing a threshold criteria responsive to a combination of the second risk value of the second possible collision avoidance path and the second uncertainty. The method includes determining if the first risk value of the first possible collision avoidance path and the first uncertainty in a combination meets the threshold criteria. The method includes outputting the first possible collision avoidance path as a selected collision avoidance path if the threshold criteria is met. In an embodiment the method includes outputting the second possible collision avoidance path as a selected collision avoidance path if the threshold criteria is not met.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

This application makes reference to technologies described more fully in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 460 088 filed on even date herewith and entitled VEHICLE COLLISION MANAGEMENT RESPONSIVE TO TRACTION CONDITIONS IN AN AVOIDANCE PATH. That application is incorporated by reference herein including any subject matter included by reference in that application.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various implementations by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred implementation will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware implementation alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible implementations by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any implementation to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the implementation will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to implement an operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described below. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem module communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will also recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. A typical image processing system may generally include one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will likewise recognize that at least some of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive screen or display surface or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive screen or display surface is illustrated as a touch sensitive display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive screen or display surface joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing a communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

In an embodiment the portion of the driving surface includes a degraded driving surface. For example the portion of the driving surface may include a shoulder ditch or potholed surface. In an embodiment the degraded driving surface includes a surface degraded by a presence of water marsh brush rock sand dirt grass or snow. For example the degraded driving surface may have a different degraded traction compared to normal road or present a resistance to a wheel of the vehicle. In an embodiment the degraded driving surface includes a surface not reasonably expected to support a wheel of the vehicle. In an embodiment the portion of the driving surface includes an on road or off road portion of the driving surface. In an embodiment the surface traction characteristic is determined in response to data indicative of a condition of the at least a portion of the surface. For example a condition may include dirt rain mud ice or weather condition. For example a condition may include a surface change or a transition from one surface to another. For example the at least a portion of the potential path may involve one or more of wheels of the vehicle being off road. In an embodiment the surface traction characteristic includes a combination of a first surface traction characteristic of a portion of a driving surface of a possible collision avoidance path likely to be traversed by a first wheel of the vehicle and a second surface traction characteristic of the portion of the driving surface likely to be traversed by a second wheel of the vehicle.

In an embodiment the data indicative of a condition of at least a portion of the surface is acquired by the sensor carried on board the vehicle . In an embodiment the possible collision avoidance path includes a possible collision avoidance path where at least one wheel of the vehicle is off road during at least a portion of the collision avoidance path.

In an embodiment the assigned risk value is based upon a capability of the vehicle to respond to the determined surface traction characteristic. For example the capability of the vehicle may include anticipated handling ability or capability of the vehicle to follow or implement the possible collision avoidance path. For example an anticipated handling ability or capability of the vehicle may include all wheel drive suitable tires or a sophistication of its vehicle control system. In an embodiment the assigned risk value is responsive to a capability of the vehicle to respond to the determined surface traction characteristic in view of the vehicle s existing speed or existing weather conditions. In an embodiment the assigned risk value is responsive to a machine learned capability of the vehicle to respond to the determined surface traction characteristic. For example the machine learning may be implemented by a machine learning circuit . For example the machine learning circuit may include a learning algorithm or system configured to take into account worn tires or shocks or load carried by vehicle. In an embodiment the rule set is structured to select the collision path having the lowest risk value. In an embodiment the rule set is responsive to a comparison of the respective assigned risk value for each of the at least two possible collision avoidance paths.

In an embodiment the system includes the collision avoidance circuit configured to generate a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the collision avoidance circuit is further configured to generate at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to data indicative of an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat. For example United States Pat. App. Pub 2010 0228427 Anderson et al. describes predicting a vehicle trajectory. In an embodiment the system includes a display device configured to display a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a vehicle operations controller configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the vehicle operations controller includes a steering controller of the vehicle. In an embodiment the vehicle operations controller includes a braking controller of the vehicle. In an embodiment the vehicle operations controller includes a throttle controller of the vehicle. In an embodiment the vehicle operations controller is further configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by the vehicle by preparing for the surface traction characteristic ahead of the selection of the collision avoidance path. For example a preparing may include setting a wheel angle set a speed of the vehicle or adjusting a suspension component of the vehicle.

In an embodiment the system includes a communication circuit configured to output a signal indicative of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the communication circuit includes a wireless communication circuit . In an embodiment the system includes a sensor configured to acquire the data indicative of the condition of a portion of the surface of the possible collision avoidance path . For example United States Pat. App. Pub. 2013 0103259 Howe et al. describes receiving road information from vehicle carried vision system. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to be mounted on the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes another sensor configured to acquire data indicative of an environment or situation external to the collision managed vehicle. In an embodiment the another sensor is configured to be mounted on the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes a computer readable storage media configured to save the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a computing device . In an embodiment the device may include the thin computing device illustrated in the computing environment described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the device may include the general purpose computing device described in conjunction with the general purpose computing environment .

In an embodiment the vehicle includes the vehicle operations controller configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the vehicle includes the display device configured to display a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the vehicle includes a computing device .

In an embodiment the operational flow includes an operation displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow includes an operation initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the operational flow includes an operation acquiring the data indicative of the condition of the driving surface of the possible collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow includes outputting the selected collision avoidance path. For example the selected collision avoidance path may be outputted to the vehicle operations controller or the display device . For example the selected collision avoidance path may be outputted to and stored by the computer readable storage media or may be wirelessly communicated to another device or system.

In an embodiment the characteristic of an adverse circumstance includes a characteristic of another vehicle present in the possible collision avoidance path . In an embodiment the characteristic of the another vehicle includes at least one of a size weight location speed or behavior of the other vehicle. In an embodiment the characteristic of the another vehicle includes a predicted consequence of a collision between the vehicle and the another vehicle. In an embodiment the characteristic of an adverse circumstance includes a characteristic of at least a portion of an adverse driving surface of the possible collision avoidance path. For example the characteristic of the adverse driving surface may include ice potholes or a cliff. In an embodiment the characteristic of an adverse circumstance includes a characteristic of an adverse object present in the possible collision avoidance path. For example the adverse object may include an adverse object impeding or obstructing the possible collision avoidance path. For example the adverse object may be a static or a moving adverse object. In an embodiment the characteristic of an adverse circumstance includes a characteristic of an adverse situation present in the possible collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the adverse circumstance includes a circumstance adverse to the vehicle successfully transiting the possible collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the characteristic of an adverse circumstance includes a characteristic of an adverse condition present in the possible collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the characteristic of an adverse circumstance is determined in response to data indicative of the adverse circumstance present in the possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle.

In an embodiment the risk value is assigned based upon a capability of the vehicle to travel the possible collision avoidance path . For example a capability of the vehicle may include a handling capability of its suspension tires or brakes to successfully or safely travel the possible collision avoidance path. For example the handling capability may be learned or modified by a machine learning circuit such as the machine learning circuit described in conjunction with or may be provided by the vehicle manufacturer. In an embodiment the rating circuit is further configured to assign an uncertainty to the assigned risk value of the possible collision path. In an embodiment the assigned uncertainty is responsive to a confidence level in the assigned risk value. In an embodiment the assigned uncertainty is responsive to a range of reasonable confidence levels in the assigned risk value. For example a range of reasonable confidence levels for a particular risk value may be between 20 and 80 . In an embodiment the assigned uncertainty is responsive to a three point estimation technique. For example a three point estimation technique may include a best case estimate a most likely estimate and a worst case estimate. In an embodiment the assigned uncertainty includes a risk probability distribution. For example the risk probability value R 0.30 indicates that there is a 30 confidence that the risk factor is less than R 0.30 likewise the risk probability value R 0.90 indicates that there is a 90 confidence that the risk factor is less than R 0.90 . It should be appreciated that in some situations the assigned risk probability values may not accurately reflect reality but simply reflect the confidence currently and perhaps inaccurately held by the rating circuit in various risk values.

In an embodiment the selector circuit includes a rule set structured to select a collision avoidance path from at least two possible collision avoidance paths. The selection is responsive to an evaluation of a respective assigned risk value and an assigned uncertainty for each of the at least two possible collision avoidance paths. In an embodiment the selector circuit includes a rule set structured to select a collision avoidance path from at least two possible collision avoidance paths. The selection is in response to an evaluation of a respective assigned risk value for each of the at least two possible collision avoidance paths wherein a first assigned risk value for a first possible collision avoidance path is responsive to a first type of adverse circumstance and a second assigned risk value for a second possible collision avoidance path is responsive to a second type of adverse circumstance. For example the first risk value may be assigned to an icy driving surface circumstance in the first possible collision avoidance path and the second risk value may be assigned to a parked car circumstance in the second possible collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the selector circuit includes a rule set structured to select the collision avoidance path having the lowest risk value from at least two possible collision avoidance paths. In an embodiment the selector circuit includes a rule set structured to select the collision avoidance path having the lowest risk value for a selected uncertainty level from at least two possible collision avoidance paths. For example the rule set may select a collision avoidance path which has a higher average risk factor but whose worst case risk factor is lower.

In an embodiment the system includes a collision avoidance circuit configured to generate a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a collision avoidance circuit configured to generate at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat. In an embodiment the system includes a display device configured to display a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a vehicle operations controller configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes a sensor configured to acquire data indicative of the adverse circumstance present in the possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes another sensor configured to acquire data indicative of an environment or situation external to the vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes a communication circuit configured to output a signal indicative of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the communication circuit includes a wireless communication circuit . In an embodiment the system includes a computing device . In an embodiment the device may include the thin computing device illustrated in the computing environment described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the device may include the general purpose computing device described in conjunction with the general purpose computing environment . In an embodiment the system includes a computer readable storage media configured to save the selected collision avoidance path.

In an embodiment the operational flow includes generating a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow includes generating at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat. In an embodiment the operational flow includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the operational flow includes acquiring data indicative of the first adverse circumstance present in the possible first collision avoidance path of the vehicle and includes acquiring data indicative of the second adverse circumstance present in the possible second collision avoidance path of the vehicle. In an embodiment the operational flow includes saving the selected collision avoidance path in a computer readable medium.

In an embodiment the operational flow includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle.

In an embodiment the system includes a collision avoidance circuit configured to generate at least two possible collision avoidance paths of the vehicle responsive to an environment or situation indicating a possible collision threat. This embodiment also includes an iteration manager circuit configured to initiate upon a determination that a first of the at least two possible collision avoidance paths does not meet the threshold criteria a determination if a second of the at least two collision avoidance paths meets the threshold criteria. In an embodiment of the system the comparator circuit is configured to compare the combination of the first risk value of the first possible collision avoidance path and the first uncertainty with respect to the combination of the second risk value of the second possible collision avoidance path and the second uncertainty. In this embodiment of the system the communication circuit is configured to select a collision avoidance path from the first possible collision avoidance path or the second possible collision avoidance path in response to the comparing and output the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes an instruction generator configured to generate a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. The instruction generator may be implemented by the computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may include the thin computing device illustrated in the computing environment described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may include the general purpose computing device described in conjunction with the general purpose computing environment .

In an embodiment the system includes a display device configured to display a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the system includes a vehicle operations controller configured to initiate an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by the vehicle operations controller of the vehicle . In an embodiment the system includes the sensor configured to acquire data indicative of the adverse circumstance present in the possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle.

In an embodiment the threshold criteria is specified by a driver or occupant of the vehicle or a manufacturer of the vehicle. In an embodiment the threshold criteria is based on a driving experience level of a driver of the vehicle. In an embodiment the threshold criteria is based on a current visibility level. In an embodiment the threshold criteria is structured to respond to or accommodate at least two different types of risks with a single criteria or factor. For example a first risk may include ice on the path and a second risk may include an object partially obstructing the path.

In an embodiment the operation flow includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operation flow includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the operation flow includes generating a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. For example the generated instruction may be a human or machine useable instruction.

In an embodiment the second evaluation operation includes determining if the threshold criteria is not met by the first possible collision avoidance path a characteristic of a second adverse circumstance present in a second possible collision avoidance path of the vehicle. In an embodiment the operational flow includes displaying a human perceivable presentation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow includes generating a collision avoidance instruction responsive to the selected collision avoidance path. In an embodiment the operational flow includes initiating an implementation of an aspect of the selected collision avoidance path by a control system of the vehicle.

In an embodiment of the second thresholding operation the determining includes comparing the first risk value of the first possible collision avoidance path and the first uncertainty in a combination with respect to the evaluation of the second risk value of the second possible collision avoidance path and the second uncertainty in a combination. In this embodiment the second communicating operation includes selecting a collision avoidance path from the first possible collision avoidance path or the second possible collision avoidance path in response to the comparing and outputting the selected collision avoidance path.

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with examples different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

