---

title: Inferred identity
abstract: Techniques for modifying search results associated with a search request based on a determination that a member profile attribute is inaccurate are described. According to various embodiments, an existing member profile attribute included in a member profile page of a particular member of an online social network service is identified. Member profile data and behavioral log data associated with a plurality of members of the online social network service is then accessed. Prediction modeling to verify the existing member profile attribute is performed using the accessed data. Additionally, a confidence score associated with the existing member profile attribute is generated based on the prediction modeling. Moreover, the existing member profile attribute is determined to be inaccurate based on the generated confidence score. Furthermore, the search results associated with a search request is modified based on the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251470&OS=09251470&RS=09251470
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09251470
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to techniques for modifying search results associated with a search request based on a determination that a member profile attribute is inaccurate.

Online social network services such as LinkedIn offer a variety of products and services to millions of members. Typically each member of the online social network service may maintain a member profile page that includes various information or member profile attributes associated with the member such as a member photo employment information educational information title skills geographic location etc.

Example methods and systems for inferring the identity e.g. member profile attributes of members of an online social network service are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

According to various example embodiments an identity inference system is configured to infer missing member profile attributes associated with a member of an online social network service. For example if a member has a missing employer e.g. company attribute educational e.g. school attribute geographic location attribute title attribute skills attribute etc. the system is configured to analyze the existing data e.g. member profile data and behavioral log data associated with that member as well as existing data of other members of the online social network in order to infer a value for the missing member profile attribute.

For example in some embodiments the system may access member profile data and behavioral log data associated with members of the online social network service the behavioral log data indicating interactions by the members with one or more products of the online social network service. As described in more detail below the system may then input one or more features extracted from the member profile data and or behavioral log data into a computer based prediction model such as a logistic regression model and perform a prediction modeling process based on the feature data to generate a confidence score associated with a missing member profile attribute of a particular member the confidence score indicating a likelihood that the missing member profile attribute corresponds to a candidate value. If the confidence score is greater than a predetermined value then the system may determine that the missing member profile attribute likely corresponds to that candidate value

Non limiting examples of member profile attributes that may be inferred include name title industry geographic location country region contact information e mail address gender current employer previous employer current educational institution previous educational institution degree field of study skills recommendations endorsements company size seniority level and so on. Non limiting examples of behavioral log data include any information indicating how a member interacts with online content e.g. an online social network service website and any webpages and products associated therewith . For example in the case of the online social network service LinkedIn the behavioral log data of members includes information indicating when the member logged into the site how long the member remained on the site what was displayed to them what they viewed impressions what they clicked on social activity information e.g. what they liked shared followed posted commented on etc. products that they interacted with e.g. a content feed or network update stream NUS member profile pages of other members a people you may know PYMK product a Jobs You May Be Interested In JYMBII product a company page a group page an influencer page a University school page etc. geolocation information received from a mobile device of the member computing platform information e.g. whether the member accessed the site via desktop or mobile device IP address information e.g. the IP addresses associated with login requests to login to the website that were received from the member member connections of the member invitations sent by the member address book or contact information uploads by the member to the site and so on.

The system may take into account any combination of feature data described above e.g. the aforementioned member profile data and behavioral log data in order to determine a probability or confidence score indicating the likelihood that a missing member profile attributes of the particular member corresponds to a candidate value. As described above the system may perform computer based prediction modeling using one or more computer based prediction models e.g. statistical machine learning models in order to generate the aforementioned confidence score. Examples of prediction models include a logistic regression model a gradient boosted machine GBM model a Na ve Bayes model a support vector machines SVM model a decision trees model and a neural network model.

In some embodiments a prediction model may be trained based on feature data e.g. member profile data behavioral log data etc. associated with members having a known candidate value for a member profile attribute e.g. members listing a particular school such as Stanford or a particular employer such as LinkedIn or a particular geographic location such as San Francisco Bay Area or a particular title such as computer engineer or a particular skill such as HTML etc. . During the training process statistical trends and patterns associated with these members having the known candidate value for the member profile attribute may be identified and coefficients of the model may be trained and refined accordingly such that the trained model reflects the relative weight importance or relevance of various features for the purposes of determining whether a specific member is also associated with that candidate value for that member profile attribute e.g. whether a specific member went to Stanford . For example the coefficients of the trained model may reflect that the attributes of email address domain and IP address have a high correlation to the member profile attribute of location although they have a lower correlation to the member profile attribute of title and so the coefficients in the model associated with the attributes of email address domain and IP address may be weight accordingly. Once trained the prediction model may receive available features associated with a specific member e.g. member profile data social activity information geolocation information IP address login information etc. in order to determine the likelihood that a member profile attribute of this member corresponds to a given candidate value.

Since each member profile attribute may be associated with multiple candidate values e.g. a company attribute could correspond to candidate values such as LinkedIn Google Apple etc. the system may generate multiple confidence scores associated with multiple candidate values each confidence score indicating the likelihood that that candidate value equates to the missing member profile attribute of a member. In some example embodiments the system may rank the candidate values based on the confidence scores in order to determine that the member likely works at the highest ranked candidate value. Instead or in addition the system may determine whether one or more of the candidate values are greater than a predetermined threshold as described above. In some example embodiments a specific prediction model may be trained for each type of member profile attribute e.g. a trained model for the attribute of company a trained model for the attribute of university etc. . Moreover in some embodiments a specific prediction model may be trained for each specific candidate value associated with a member profile attribute e.g. a trained model for the candidate value of LinkedIn for the company attribute a trained model for the candidate value of Google for the company attribute etc. .

An example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes member connection information identifying member connections of each member of a social network. For example when inferring whether John Smith works at LinkedIn the system may determine that if a large number of the member connections of John Smith work at LinkedIn it is more likely that John Smith also works at LinkedIn . For example a prediction model may be trained on member profile data and behavioral log data of members that work at LinkedIn and determine that such members tend to have a large number of member connections that work at LinkedIn and perhaps a relatively smaller number of member connections that work at other companies. Similarly the prediction model may be trained on member profile data and behavioral log data of members that work at Google and determine that for example these members tend to have a small number of member connections that work at LinkedIn and perhaps a relatively larger number of member connections that work at Google and so on. Accordingly when training the prediction model on data of members associated with a known candidate value e.g. members that work at LinkedIn the system may include in a feature vector associated with each particular member a numerical value indicating the number of member connections of that particular member that share the same company as the candidate company e.g. the number of member connections that work at LinkedIn . Likewise when later utilizing the prediction model to generate a confidence score associated with John Smith having a particular candidate value e.g. LinkedIn the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with John Smith a numerical value indicating the number of member connections of John Smith that share the same company as the candidate company e.g. the number of member connections that work at LinkedIn . In this non limiting example the greater this numerical value the greater the confidence score generated by the prediction model. Likewise member connection information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location school title skills etc. For example when inferring location attributes the system may utilize a feature indicating how many member connections of a given member share the same country region as the candidate country region.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes IP address information identifying IP addresses associated with login requests by the members of the online social network. For example the system may infer that members who log in from the same similar IP address tend to work at the same company. Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating an IP address used by that member to login to a website or a numerical value indicating how members having the same similar IP address as the given member share the same company as the candidate company. Likewise IP address information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location school title skills etc. For example when inferring location attributes the system may utilize a feature indicating how many members associated with the same IP address as the given member share the same country region as the candidate country region.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes profile view information identifying profile views by members of the online social network. For example the system may determine that if member profile X is frequently viewed by the same members that view member profile Y such that Y is termed a co viewed profile of X and vice versa then the member X and member Y likely work together. Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating how many co viewed profiles of that member share the same company as the candidate company e.g. people that view this member frequently view a certain number of other members working at LinkedIn . In this non limiting example the greater this numerical value the greater the confidence score generated by the prediction model. Likewise profile view information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location school title skills etc. For example when inferring location attributes the system may utilize a feature indicating how many co viewed profiles of that member share the same country region as the candidate country region.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes email domain information identifying email domains associated with the members of the online social network. For example the system may infer that members who sign up for a social network account with the same email domain e.g. LinkedIn .com tend to work at the same company e.g. LinkedIn . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating an email domain used by that member to sign up for an account on a website or a numerical value indicating how members associated with the same email domain as the member share the same company as the candidate company. Likewise email domain information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location school title skills etc.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes invitation information identifying invitations transmitted by the members of the online social network. For example when inferring whether John Smith works at LinkedIn the system may determine that if John Smith has transmitted a large number of invitations to other members that work at LinkedIn it is more likely that John Smith also works at LinkedIn . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating the number of member invitations sent by that particular member to others that share the same company as the candidate company e.g. members that work at LinkedIn . Likewise invitation information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location school title skills etc.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes address book information identifying records in address books associated with members of the online social network. For example the system may infer that if a member uploads an address book that includes a large number of users that work at LinkedIn it is more likely that the member also works at LinkedIn . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating the number of users in an address book uploaded by that particular member that share the same company as the candidate company e.g. users that work at LinkedIn . As another example the system may infer that if a particular member frequently co occurs in address books with others that work at LinkedIn then that particular member likely also works at LinkedIn . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating how many times that member has co occurred in one or more address books with at least one user that shares the same company as the candidate company or how many times they have co occurred with a specific user works at the candidate value company and so on. As another example the system may count how many times a member appears in address books of members who work at the candidate company. For example the system may determine that if someone appears very often in address books of LinkedIn employees he she is more likely to have worked at LinkedIn . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating how many times that member has appeared in address books of users who work at the candidate company. Likewise address book information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location school title skills etc.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes alumni group membership information associated with the members of the online social network. For example the system may infer that members who join the same alumni group e.g. Stanford Alumni tend to graduate from the same school e.g. Stanford . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating the number of members that attended a candidate school that have joined a group that the given member has joined. Likewise group membership information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location company title skills etc.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes geographic location information e.g. city state country region etc. of the members of the online social network. For example the system may infer that if a member has specified that they are in a given country or region e.g. when they signed up for an account on the online social network service then they likely attend a school in that country or region and they likely do not attend a school in some other country or region. Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating a country or region e.g. as specified by the member when they signed up for an account on the online social network service . Likewise geographic location information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location company title skills etc.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes gender distribution information of the members of the online social network. For example if the system determines that the member is male it is less likely that they attend a female only school or a school where most members are female . Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating the number of a number or proportion of members having the same gender as the given member at the candidate school. Likewise gender distribution information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location company title skills etc.

Another example of a specific feature that may be included in the feature data includes industry information associated with the members of the online social network. For example the system may infer that members who have the same industry attribute e.g. Music Industry tend to graduate from same or similar schools. Accordingly the system may include in a feature vector of feature data associated with a given member a numerical value indicating the number of members having the same industry attribute as the given member that attended the candidate school. Likewise industry information may be utilized in a similar manner when inferring other attributes such as location company title skills etc.

In some embodiments the system may infer title in conjunction with inferring company. For example title and company are often related attributes that are specified by the member in conjunction with each other. In some embodiments the system may infer the title of a given member by first inferring a company of the given member e.g. using any embodiments described above and then identifying a set of one or more first degree member connections of the given member who have worked at the inferred company. The system may then identify a first one of that set of members that is most similar to the given member by comparing the skills of that first member with the skills either known or inferred of the given member. The system may then infer that the title of the given member corresponds to the title of the first member.

Various examples above describe features and or numerical values being inserted into feature vectors and such features and or numerical values may represent a count over a particular period of time e.g. a particular week a group of weeks a particular month a group of months etc. . For example when inferring location attributes the system may utilize a feature indicating how many members associated with the same similar IP address as the given member share the same country region as the candidate country region. Thus this feature may include a count of how many members have logged into a website based on that same similar IP address during a particular week a group of weeks a particular month a group of months etc.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information hometown address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number .

With some embodiments the social network system includes what is generally referred to herein as an identity inference system . The identity inference system is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network system provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

Turning now to an identity inference system includes a determination module a request generation module and a database . The modules of the identity inference system may be implemented on or executed by a single device such as an inferred identity device or on separate devices interconnected via a network. The aforementioned inferred identity device may be for example one or more client machines or application servers. The operation of each of the aforementioned modules of the identity inference system will now be described in greater detail in conjunction with .

In some embodiments before prompting a member to update a missing member profile attribute corresponding to a candidate value the system may first determine whether or not that candidate value is already included in the member s profile page e.g. in correspondence with another existing member profile attribute . For example suppose a particular member already has the employer LinkedIn listed on their profile as a former employer but the current employer attribute is missing. The identity inference system may nevertheless infer that the member currently works at LinkedIn e.g. that the candidate value for the missing member profile attribute of current employer most likely corresponds to the employer LinkedIn . However the fact that the member has already listed LinkedIn as a former employer will result in the system preventing the member from being prompted to update their current employer to LinkedIn . Accordingly in some embodiments the system may analyze the member s profile page for various values e.g. companies universities locations titles skills etc. and prevent those values from being sent as candidate values in the prediction modeling process. Instead or in addition after the prediction modeling process is completed the system may ignore any confidence scores associated with candidate values already included in the member s profile page.

In some embodiments after the identity inference system determines that a missing member profile attribute of the member corresponds to a candidate value e.g. based on a confidence score being higher than a predetermined threshold as described above the system may modify various types of information to indicate that the missing member profile attribute of the member likely corresponds to the candidate value. For example if the system determines that a missing employer attribute likely corresponds to a member working at LinkedIn and if the system receives a request for a list of members that work at LinkedIn or a search request for such members then the system may include that member in the list of results or indicate that the member should likely be included in the results . As another example if the identity inference system is generating a count of current employees of a particular employer such as LinkedIn e.g. to for the purposes of marketing and or advertising the system may increment this count to include the member.

According to various example embodiments the identity inference system may also provide various techniques for verifying or validating existing member profile attributes for a member. For example the identity inference system may identify a member profile attribute that is already included on a member s profile page e.g. the member indicates that they work at Google . The identity inference system may then perform the prediction modeling process in a similar manner as in embodiments described above e.g. in connection with in order to generate various confidence score is associated with various candidate values for that member profile attribute. In this way the system may determine for example that when the candidate value is set to the current value as specified by the user e.g. LinkedIn and if the user specified that they work at LinkedIn the generated confidence score is relatively quite low indicating that the user likely doesn t work at LinkedIn . Similarly the identity inference system may determine that for example the candidate value associated with some other employer e.g. Apple is actually relatively high indicating that the user likely works at Apple . Accordingly the identity inference system allows for verification and validation of various member profile attributes included in a member s profile such as geographic location employer University to title skills etc.

In conjunction with the verification techniques described above if the identity inference system determines that an existing member profile attribute of the member is inaccurate e.g. the member indicated that they work at Google when it seems likely that they work at Apple the identity inference system may prompt the member via web based user interface or via a mobile application or a message e.g. e mail text message chat message etc. to update their member profile attribute accordingly. For example the system may prompt the user to change their employer from Google to Apple .

In some embodiments in conjunction with the verification techniques described above after the identity inference system determines that an existing member profile attribute of the member is likely not accurate the system may modify various types of information to indicate that the missing member profile attribute of the member likely corresponds to the more accurate candidate value. For example if a member indicated that they work at Google and the system determines that it is more likely that they work at Apple and if the system receives a request for a list of members that work at Apple or a search request for such members then the system may include that member in the list of results or indicate that the member should likely be included in the results . Likewise if the system receives a request for a list of members that work at Google or a search request for such members then the system may exclude that member in the list of results or indicate that the member should likely not be included in the results . As another example if the identity inference system is generating a count of current employees at Apple e.g. to for the purposes of marketing and or advertising the system may increment this count to include the member whereas the system may decrement the count for the employer Google .

As described above the prediction module may use any one of various known prediction modeling techniques to perform the prediction modeling. For example according to various exemplary embodiments the prediction module may apply a statistics based machine learning model such as a logistic regression model to the member profile data and or behavioral log data associated with one or more members of an online social network. As understood by those skilled in the art logistic regression is an example of a statistics based machine learning technique that uses a logistic function. The logistic function is based on a variable referred to as a logit. The logit is defined in terms of a set of regression coefficients of corresponding independent predictor variables. Logistic regression can be used to predict the probability of occurrence of an event given a set of independent predictor variables. A highly simplified example machine learning model using logistic regression may be ln p 1 p a BX e or p 1 p exp a BX e where ln is the natural logarithm log where exp 2.71828 . . . p is the probability that the event Y occurs p Y 1 p 1 p is the odds ratio ln p 1 p is the log odds ratio or logit a is the coefficient on the constant term B is the regression coefficient s on the independent predictor variable s X is the independent predictor variable s and e is the error term. In some embodiments the independent predictor variables of the logistic regression model may correspond to member profile data or behavioral log data associated with members of an online social network service where the aforementioned member profile data or behavioral log data may be encoded into numerical values and inserted into feature vectors . The regression coefficients may be estimated using maximum likelihood or learned through a supervised learning technique from the recruiting intent signature data as described in more detail below. Accordingly once the appropriate regression coefficients e.g. B are determined the features included in a feature vector e.g. member profile data and or behavioral log data associated with one or more members of a social network service may be plugged in to the logistic regression model in order to predict the probability or confidence score that the event Y occurs where the event Y may be for example a missing member profile attribute corresponding to a particular candidate value . In other words provided a feature vector including various member profile data and or behavioral features associated with members the feature vector may be applied to a logistic regression model to determine the probability that a missing member profile attribute of a particular member corresponds to a particular candidate value. Logistic regression is well understood by those skilled in the art and will not be described in further detail herein in order to avoid occluding various aspects of this disclosure. The prediction module may use various other prediction modeling techniques understood by those skilled in the art to generate the aforementioned confidence score. For example other prediction modeling techniques may include other computer based machine learning models such as a gradient boosted machine GBM model a Na ve Bayes model a support vector machines SVM model a decision trees model and a neural network model all of which are understood by those skilled in the art.

According to various embodiments described above the feature data may be used for the purposes of both off line training for generating training and refining a prediction model and or the coefficients of a prediction model and online inferences for generating confidence scores . For example if the prediction module is utilizing a logistic regression model as described above then the regression coefficients of the logistic regression model may be learned through a supervised learning technique from the feature data. Accordingly in one embodiment the identity inference system may operate in an off line training mode by assembling the feature data into feature vectors. The feature vectors may then be passed to the prediction module in order to refine regression coefficients for the logistic regression model. For example statistical learning based on the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers technique may be utilized for this task. Thereafter once the regression coefficients are determined the identity inference system may operate to perform online or offline inferences based on the trained model including the trained model coefficients on a feature vector representing the feature data of a particular member of the online social network service. According to various exemplary embodiments the off line process of training the prediction model based on member profile data and behavioral log data may be performed periodically at regular time intervals e.g. once a day or may be performed at irregular time intervals random time intervals continuously etc. Thus since member profile data and behavioral log data may change over time it is understood that the prediction model itself may change over time based on the current member profile data and behavioral log data used to train the model .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi LTE and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

