---

title: Video editing device
abstract: A video editing device, when having failed to obtain a portion of high-resolution video data from a video camera through a network, provides, to the user, low-resolution video data which has been previously transferred from the video camera, instead of the portion of the high-resolution video data. In parallel with this, the video editing device automatically searches for the missing high-resolution video data, on a network, using the ID of a video file or the ID of a recording medium, and if it is found, supplements a video which is to be provided to the user, with the found high-resolution video data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09343109&OS=09343109&RS=09343109
owner: Panasonic Intellectual Property Management Co., Ltd.
number: 09343109
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140624
---
This is a continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2014 000867 filed on Feb. 19 2014 which claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 268675 filed on Dec. 26 2013. The entire disclosures of these applications are incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to video editing devices which are connected to a network and can communicate with an external terminal typified by a camcorder.

High speed wireless communications have in recent years been becoming available in urban areas which are typified by widespread use of Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or 4G Long Term Evolution LTE . As a result it has become practical to upload digital data such as photographs videos etc. captured using a digital camera or a digital video camera to an online service such as a cloud service etc. through wireless communications.

For example Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. 2005 168056 describes a camera which includes a data communication unit which transfers image data of a subject and identification data corresponding to the image data a captured frame storage unit and a transfer image data storage unit. As a result the user can upload captured image data to an online service provided by a photographic shop etc. and therefore it is not necessary for the user to hand a recording medium to a photofinisher i.e. it is not necessary to put time and effort into ordering printing etc. Thus the convenience of transferring photographs or videos to a server on the Internet is considerably beneficial to users.

On the other hand International Patent Publication No. WO01 060062 describes a video recording device which compresses a video signal to simultaneously generate high resolution video data and low resolution video data stores the high resolution video data to a recording medium provided in the device and wirelessly transmits the low resolution video data to a separate editing device. This document also describes that the user performs editing by a separate editing device using the low resolution video data and only an edited list obtained as a result of the edition is wirelessly written to the recording medium provided in the video recording device. This technique has been made based on the fact that when video data is to be transferred the size of high resolution video data to be recorded is considerably large compared to the transfer rate of wireless transmission which is widely available at present.

For example as of 2013 the effective upload rate in using a 4G LTE network which is a wireless communication network available within a relatively wide area in Japan is not more than about 2 15 Mbps while the bit rate of video data to be recorded which is widely used in the broadcasting business is about 25 200 Mbps. In other words it is not currently practical to transfer all video data to be recorded to a server on the Internet using a wireless network. This is why the video recording device described in International Patent Publication No. WO01 060062 above transfers low resolution video data separately generated from the same video source instead of high resolution video data to be recorded.

Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. 2008 199677 describes a video broadcasting system which is connected to a video camera and simultaneously generates high resolution video data and low resolution video data transfers the low resolution video data to a receiver terminal through a network and in addition in response to a retransmission request from the receiver terminal broadcasts high resolution video data of a video which starts a predetermined time before the time of receiving the video retransmission request. As a result the user can check all video data transmitted from a camera located at a remote place and obtain high resolution video data of only a portion which the user has determined by the checking is necessary through a network. For example the convenience of this system is more obvious in the case where a video camera is used during news gathering while a receiver terminal is provided in a broadcast station. Videos used in news programs mostly have a time length of as short as about 30 seconds to several minutes. However it is necessary to check the entire video in order to find the necessary portion. However it takes a lot of time to bring a video camera from a place where news gathering is performed back to a broadcast station and therefore it is necessary to transfer a video from the video camera to the broadcast station through a network. To do so low resolution video data is generated and transferred. However the low resolution video data has poor definition when it is displayed on a television. Therefore information related to a necessary portion is sent from the receiver terminal back to the video broadcasting system so that high resolution video data of only the necessary portion is obtained. The transfer range is limited only to a necessary portion. Therefore even if the transfer rate of a wireless network is low the transfer can be expected to be completed within a practical period of time.

A video editing device will be discussed which operates in cooperation with a video camera which has a function of recording high resolution video data to a recording medium included therein and a function of transferring low resolution video data generated simultaneously with the high resolution video data to a server etc. through a network.

As described above the user browses through low resolution video data transferred from the video camera using the video editing device to specify a necessary range of a video. The video editing device sends information about the specified range back to the video camera through a network so that high resolution video data of that portion is transferred from the video camera to the video editing device.

However here a problem arises that when information about a necessary range of a video is sent back from the video editing device the corresponding high resolution video data does not necessarily exist in the video camera.

Commonly used video cameras mostly have a removable recording medium to which a captured video is recorded in a video file format. Examples of a widely used recording medium include Secure Digital SD memory cards and Blu ray registered trademark Disc Rewritable BD RE media and P2 cards and Professional Disc media for video cameras used in the broadcasting business. These recording media can be removed from a video camera after recording has been finished.

A video camera and a video editing device are highly likely to be located at places which are physically separated very far from each other. Therefore it is difficult for a user who is operating the video editing device to find a state of a recording medium inserted in the video camera and it is also difficult for a user who is operating the video camera to know when a request for high resolution video data will be sent from the video editing device.

Specifically when a video editing device requests a video camera to transfer high resolution video data then if a recording medium storing the desired video data has been removed from the video camera the video editing device cannot obtain the high resolution video data. Also the recording medium is not necessarily connected to the same video camera and may be inserted in a different video camera.

When the recording medium itself is subsequently obtained a portion including only low resolution video data may be replaced with high resolution video data. However for example particularly when only some of a plurality of specified ranges have not been successfully obtained it takes a lot of time and effort for the user to manually manage or determine which of the ranges has not been successfully obtained.

The present disclosure describes implementations of a video editing device in which even when the video editing device has failed to obtain high resolution video data because for example a recording medium has been removed from a video camera the user can obtain a best editing result that is available at that time.

The present disclosure also describes implementations of a video editing device which automatically finds high resolution video data which the video editing device has failed to obtain and adds a change to an editing result based on the high resolution video data.

A video editing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is a video editing device connected to a network including a proxy video receiver configured to receive low resolution video data from an external terminal through the network a first recording medium configured to store the low resolution video data received by the proxy video receiver an extraction command issuance unit configured to transmit to the external terminal a command to extract and transfer high resolution video data corresponding to information of video data included in a playlist which is generated by a user using the low resolution video data stored in the first recording medium based on the playlist a main track video receiver configured to receive the high resolution video data from the external terminal a second recording medium configured to store the high resolution video data received by the main track video receiver a reception error detector configured to detect a failure to obtain the high resolution video data from the external terminal and a video supplementation unit configured to when the reception error detector has detected the failure to obtain the high resolution video data supply low resolution video data corresponding to the high resolution video data instead of the high resolution video data.

The video editing device of the example of the present disclosure further includes a missing video manager configured to when the reception error detector has detected a failure to receive high resolution video data store ID information for uniquely identifying a recording medium storing the high resolution video data in the external terminal and ID information for uniquely identifying the high resolution video data in association with each other and a connected media information obtaining unit configured to obtain information of the recording medium inserted in the external terminal through the network. When the connected media information obtaining unit has detected that a recording medium having ID information matching ID information of a recording medium stored in the missing video manager is inserted in the external terminal the extraction command issuance unit transmits to the external terminal a command to extract and transfer video data having ID information matching ID information of video data which is stored in the missing video manager in association with the ID information of the recording medium.

The video editing device of the present disclosure allows the user to obtain a best editing result that is available at that time even when the video editing device has failed to obtain high resolution video data because for example a recording medium has been removed from a video camera. The video editing device of the present disclosure also automatically finds high resolution video data which the video editing device has failed to obtain and adds a change to an editing result based on the high resolution video data.

Embodiments will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. To avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present disclosure well known features may not be described or substantially the same elements may not be redundantly described for example. This is for ease of understanding.

The drawings and the following description are provided to enable those skilled in the art to fully understand the present disclosure and are in no way intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the appended claims.

Firstly a configuration of a video editing device according to the present disclosure will be described.

The video editing device receives low resolution video data hereinafter referred to as a proxy video transferred from the external terminal using the proxy video receiver . The received proxy video is stored in the first recording medium . Meta data etc. related to the stored proxy video is registered in the proxy database . For example the meta data registered in the proxy database includes information for identifying or determining what video file recorded in what recording medium of what video camera the proxy video has been transferred based on and ID information for uniquely identifying a high resolution video file hereinafter referred to as a main track video corresponding to the proxy video. A detailed example of the meta data will be described below.

The video editing device also includes an external terminal manager . The external terminal manager is software which holds information related to a network of the external terminal connected to the video editing device and also allows for search and reference of the information. The external terminal manager includes an external terminal database . The external terminal when connected to a network regularly communicates with the external terminal manager included in the video editing device through the network even if there is not a video to be transferred. This communication is used by the video editing device to find that the external terminal is currently connected to the network. When the communication is continued the external terminal manager holds in the external terminal database a pair of the IP address of the external terminal and ID information for uniquely identifying the external terminal . The video editing device further includes a playlist generator a playlist analyzer a main track video extractor a missing video manager a second recording medium for storing a main track video and a third recording medium for storing a playlist. The playlist generator is application software which allows the user of the video editing device to browse a proxy video stored in the first recording medium and to specify a necessary video range of the proxy video. Here the playlist generator does not necessarily need to be an application which allows the user to directly operate the video editing device . The playlist generator may be an application which allows the user to remotely operate the video editing device through a network etc. Note that a list of necessary video ranges specified by the user is hereinafter referred to as a playlist. A playlist has an ID for uniquely identifying itself.

The playlist analyzer is software which analyzes the contents of a playlist generated by the user using the playlist generator and checks the result of the analysis against information stored in the proxy database to obtain information indicating what recording medium of what video camera a main track video corresponding to a video range put by the user on the playlist is stored in under what name. The information thus obtained is output to the main track video extractor .

The main track video extractor is software including an extraction command issuance unit a main track video receiver and a playlist manager . The extraction command issuance unit commands through a network the external terminal which stores a main track video to start transfer of video data of the main track video corresponding to a portion which has been put by the user on the playlist as a necessary video range based on an output of the playlist analyzer . Note that a location on a network of the external terminal is held in the external terminal database as described above. The main track video receiver receives video data of a main track video which has been transferred from the external terminal in accordance with the command of the extraction command issuance unit and stores the received data into the second recording medium .

The playlist manager includes a reception error detector a video supplementation unit and a playlist changing unit .

The reception error detector when the transfer process of a main track video from the external terminal to the video editing device has failed is informed of the occurrence of the failure from the extraction command issuance unit or the main track video receiver . Here the reception error means a failure to obtain main track video data which occurs for example when an external terminal which has captured the main track video to be transferred is not connected to a network or when the external terminal is connected to a network but a recording medium which stores the main track video has already been removed from the external terminal.

The reception error detector when informed of the occurrence of a reception error informs the missing video manager the video supplementation unit and the playlist changing unit of ID information for uniquely identifying a main track video which has not been successfully received a range of the main track video data which has been selected by the user and the ID of a playlist including the range.

The missing video manager is software which when main track video data has not been successfully transferred from the external terminal to the video editing device for some reason stores ID information etc. for uniquely identifying the main track video and allows for search and reference of the stored information. The missing video manager includes a missing video database . In the missing video database the ID information of a video which has been received from the reception error detector a range of the main track video data which has been selected by the user and the ID of a playlist including the range are registered.

The video supplementation unit is software or hardware for supplying a proxy video corresponding to main track video data which has not been successfully transferred the video supplementation unit is informed of information related to the main track video data by the reception error detector instead of the main track video data. This function may for example be specifically implemented as follows the video supplementation unit copies a proxy video corresponding to main track video data which has not been successfully transferred from the first recording medium to the second recording medium . Here the operation referred to as copy is not limited to simple duplication of a file. The copy operation may include operation of extracting only a portion of a proxy video file based on a video range specified by the user in a playlist and writing the portion of the video file to the second recording medium or operation of generating on the second recording medium a link to a proxy video existing on the first recording medium instead of duplicating the file itself.

The playlist changing unit is software which changes or rewrites information related to a main track video which has been received from the reception error detector of the contents of the playlist generated by the user so that the absence of the main track video is explicit. A specific example of the operation will be described below. The playlist changing unit writes the rewritten playlist to the third recording medium . Note that when the video editing device has successfully obtained all main track videos the playlist changing unit directly writes the playlist generated by the user to the third recording medium . Note that when the external terminal processes main track video data before transmitting it the playlist changing unit may change the playlist based on the result of the processing. A specific example will be described below.

The video editing device further includes a network storage provider . The network storage provider is software which allows a user who uses the video editing device through a network to refer to the contents of the second recording medium and the contents of the third recording medium . The network storage provider allows the user to copy main track video data which has been transferred from the external terminal to the video editing device based on the playlist generated by the playlist generator and the playlist related to the main track video data to their own computer etc. through a network. In other words the user can obtain high resolution video data of a necessary portion of a video and a playlist related to the high resolution video data through the video editing device while the user is located at a place which is physically separated very far from the external terminal . For a portion for which high resolution video data has not been successfully obtained for some reason low resolution video data is substituted and it is described on the playlist that the low resolution data is substituted. Therefore a video which is obtained by playing the playlist back has best quality that can be available at that time.

The video editing device further includes an external terminal content information obtaining unit . The external terminal content information obtaining unit is software which obtains through a network a list of the ID information of main track video data stored in a recording medium included in the external terminal connected to the video editing device through the network. The list of the ID information of video data may be obtained by the external terminal content information obtaining unit querying the external terminal at a timing when connection is established between the external terminal and the video editing device and information of the external terminal is registered in the external terminal database or at regular timings or alternatively by the external terminal informing the external terminal content information obtaining unit at a timing when connection of the network is established at a timing when the recording medium is inserted or removed or at regular timings.

The external terminal content information obtaining unit has a function of comparing ID information included in the list of ID information in the external terminal which has been obtained by the above procedure with ID information registered in the missing video manager and if there is matching ID information informing the extraction command issuance unit of the ID information information necessary to access an external terminal having a recording medium in which video data corresponding to the ID information is stored and information about the selected range and the ID of a playlist from which the information is missing that are registered in the missing video manager in association with the ID information. Here the information necessary to access an external terminal having a recording medium in which video data corresponding to ID information is stored specifically means information necessary to identify a location of the external terminal on a network such as the IP address of the external terminal or a key necessary to retrieve the IP address of the external terminal using the external terminal database .

The extraction command issuance unit commands through a network the external terminal to start transfer of a specified range of a main track video corresponding to the ID information of main track video data which has been received from the external terminal content information obtaining unit . The main track video receiver stores the main track video received by the above procedure to the second recording medium . The playlist changing unit also erases a description indicating the absence of the main track video data stored to the second recording medium by the above procedure from the playlist stored in the third recording medium and writes and stores a new description indicating the presence of the main track video to the second recording medium . In this case the existing playlist may be overwritten or a new playlist may be stored. The video editing device also informs the user that the playlist has been updated through an electronic mail server .

With the above configuration when high resolution video data has not been obtained due to disconnection of the external terminal from a network removal of the recording medium etc. the missing high resolution video data is automatically supplied to the video editing device and provided to the user at a timing when the external terminal is connected to a network again or at a timing when the recording medium is inserted into the external terminal .

Operation of the video editing device will now be described using example data having specific contents.

The video editing device and the external terminal are connected together by the network connection unit . Here the network connection unit is specifically hardware such as an Ethernet registered trademark port a wireless local area network LAN module or a telephone line modular and software which controls the hardware. On the other hand the external terminal is specifically a video camera which has a means for connecting to a network as described above.

The video camera further includes an image capture unit . The image capture unit is hardware for converting optical information into electronic information and software for controlling the hardware specifically an image capture device such as a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS device and driver software for controlling the image capture device.

The video camera further includes a recording start end instruction unit a high resolution compressor a low resolution compressor and a meta data generator . An output of the image capture unit is input through the recording start end instruction unit to the high resolution compressor the low resolution compressor and the meta data generator . Here the recording start end instruction unit may specifically be a recording start end button of the video camera which is pressed down by the user of the video camera. When the button is pressed once the video camera starts recording and an output of the image capture unit is input to the high resolution compressor etc. When the button is pressed once again the video camera stops recording and the output of the image capture unit to the high resolution compressor etc. is blocked.

The high resolution compressor and the low resolution compressor are software or hardware which for example compresses a moving image portion and an audio portion of an input video using H.264 and Advanced Audio Coding AAC respectively. The encoder is set or adjusted so that the high resolution compressor outputs video data at a bit rate which is higher than that at which the low resolution compressor outputs video data.

Data output by the high resolution compressor and the low resolution compressor is written as a video file to the recording medium through a recording medium writer . Here the recording medium writer is software or hardware for writing data as a file to the recording medium . A specific example of the recording medium writer is a file system module of an operating system such as Windows registered trademark or Linux registered trademark . Specifically by calling a file write application programming interface API possessed by these operating systems a file of interest is written to the recording medium . The contents of a video contained in a high resolution video file thus written is exactly the same as the contents of a video contained in a low resolution video file. The difference therebetween is only compression techniques or a parameter s used in compression.

The meta data generator is software which generates additional information about a video file recorded by the video camera . An output of the meta data generator is written as a meta data file to the recording medium through the recording medium writer . Specific contents of the written additional information will be described below.

With the above configuration high resolution and low resolution video files and a meta data file are stored in the recording medium . These files generated by performing recording once are stored in the recording medium in association with each other. shows an example configuration of files in the recording medium . A file system in the recording medium has a CONTENTS folder in which all files recorded by the video camera are stored. There are a VIDEO folder a PROXY folder and a CLIP folder under the CONTENTS folder. A high resolution video file is stored in the VIDEO folder. A low resolution video file is stored in the PROXY folder. A meta data file is stored in the CLIP folder. When stored a video file and a meta data file corresponding to each other are given the same name except for the extension. In the example of there is a set of a high resolution video file named 001.mxf stored in the VIDEO folder a low resolution video file named 001.mp4 stored in the PROXY folder and a meta data file named 001.xml stored in the CLIP folder. Because files are associated with each other using a file name the association can be easily recognized by humans and computers.

A high resolution video file is recorded in a file format called the Material eXchange Format MXF SMPTE377M. A low resolution video file is recorded in a file format called the Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 ISO IEC14496 14. These file formats are widely used in professional video equipment. In contrast a meta data file is stored in the eXtensible Markup Language XML . The XML format is a markup language which describes a content with considerably high flexibility and therefore is suitable for professional video equipment which is required to record various items of additional information.

Of the additional information shown in particularly important is a GlobalClipID. The GlobalClipID is ID information for uniquely identifying a video associated with this meta data file. This ID information is a character string having a sufficient length of alphanumeric characters. A predetermined algorithm is used to generate this type of ID information so that different ID information can always be assigned to different video files. A specific example of the algorithm for generating GlobalClipIDs is the Unique Material Identifier UMID SMPTE330M which is a standard for providing material identifiers in the broadcasting business.

The reason why ID information such as UMID is generated and written to a meta data file is that in the recording medium the file name of a video file cannot be used to uniquely identify the video file in a place away from the recording medium in which the video file is stored. This is more significantly true when the file system MS DOS registered trademark which is employed for SD cards etc. is used as a file system for the recording medium . In this file system file names have at most eight alphanumeric characters. It is obvious that file names are too short to be uniquely assigned to all video files generated all over the world. It is not unusual that two different recording media store video files which have the same name but contain different contents. Therefore for example when data is collected and copied from a plurality of recording media to a single recording medium conflicting file names need to be changed. In other words file names are not always unique ID information for videos. Therefore the above UMID is employed.

Note that a high resolution video file and a low resolution video file associated with this meta data file contain the same contents of a video as described above and therefore are assigned the same ID information.

A meta data file contains in the tag Device information about equipment which has generated a video file associated with the meta data file. A piece of equipment which has generated a video file can be uniquely identified based on a set of the serial No. SerialNo. model name ModelName and manufacturer Manufacturer of the equipment.

Referring back to the video camera further includes a communication protocol controller and a wireless communication unit . The video camera transfers a low resolution video file and a meta data file to the video editing device through the communication protocol controller . Here the communication protocol controller is software which transfers electronic data from the video camera to the video editing device in cooperation with the proxy video receiver included in the video editing device . A specific example of the communication protocol controller is File Transfer Protocol FTP client software etc. The wireless communication unit is hardware which is used by the communication protocol controller to transfer electronic data. Specific examples of the wireless communication unit include a wireless LAN module a 4G LTE connection adaptor etc.

The video camera further includes a camera ID storage unit and a timer . The camera ID storage unit is hardware or software which stores ID information for uniquely identifying an individual video camera. A specific example of the camera ID storage unit is a flash read only memory ROM memory chip which stores the model name or serial No. of a video camera. The timer is software or hardware which informs the external terminal manager included in the video editing device of the camera ID stored in the camera ID storage unit through the wireless communication unit at predetermined time intervals. For example when the external terminal manager is server software which waits at a particular Transmission Control Protocol TCP port the timer transmits the text data of to the particular port through TCP communication at predetermined time intervals. The external terminal manager stores a pair of the IP address of the transmission source of the text data and the camera ID which is the same as the camera information described in a meta data file i.e. the serial No. SerialNo. model name ModelName and manufacturer Manufacturer of the equipment in the example of described in the text data. As a result it can be managed or determined what IP a particular video camera is associated with.

On the other hand the video editing device which includes the proxy video receiver receives a low resolution video file and a meta data file associated with the low resolution video file from the video camera . The video editing device stores the received low resolution video file into the first recording medium . The video editing device analyzes and records the contents of the meta data file to the proxy database .

As described above the proxy video receiver is software having a function of transferring electronic data in cooperation with the communication protocol controller included in the video camera . An example of this function is a function of an FTP server.

The proxy video receiver also has a function of analyzing the contents of a meta data file. An example of this function is a function of an XML parser. The XML parser is used to extract necessary information from the meta data file of .

Here the necessary information extracted from the meta data file is information necessary for finding what a low resolution video file stored in the first recording medium originates from. In the example of a specific example of the necessary information is ID information for identifying a video file that is described in the tag GlobalClipID. Information about equipment for shooting that is described in the tag Device is also information about the external terminal in which a recording medium storing main track video data associated with the meta data file is most likely to be inserted. These items of information are recorded by the proxy video receiver to the proxy database in association with information about a path to a proxy video file stored in the first recording medium . With the above configuration ID information for identifying a video can be used as a search key to easily search for information for identifying the location of a proxy video file related to the video in the first recording medium or the external terminal which is highly likely to have a recording medium which stores a main track video file related to the video.

The user of the video editing device of the present disclosure can generate a playlist while browsing a proxy video stored in the first recording medium using the playlist generator included in the video editing device . shows an example screen which is displayed when the playlist generator is implemented as a web application which the user can use through a network.

The user accesses the playlist generator through a web browser using their own computer etc. The playlist generator which has a web server function serves as a web application which provides a function of generating a playlist.

A playlist generation application in this embodiment includes a thumbnail display portion which displays a list of proxy video files stored in the first recording medium in a thumbnail format. The user can select a video which the user desires to browse by clicking a corresponding thumbnail. A proxy video related to the video selected by the user in the thumbnail display portion is played back in a proxy playback portion . The user can pause or fast forward a video displayed in the proxy playback portion by clicking a playback operation button . A playback position display bar visualizes where a frame currently displayed in the proxy playback portion is positioned in a video file. The user can cause a video to be in any temporal position in a video file by dragging a pointer on the playback position display bar .

The user specifies a necessary range of a video in a video file using the playback operation button or the playback position display bar . Specifically a range for which the user desires to obtain high resolution video data is specified by dragging a start point indicator and an end point indicator displayed along the playback position display bar . After the specifying of the range has been completed the range of the video is added to a playlist by clicking a range playlist addition button . The added range of the video is displayed in a list format in a playlist display portion .

The user repeatedly performs a series of steps i.e. selecting a video file specifying a necessary range and adding to a playlist to complete generation of a playlist which is a list of necessary video ranges.

After the generation of a playlist has been completed the playlist generator outputs the contents of the playlist to the playlist analyzer . Specifically when the user clicks an export button included in the playlist generation application text data shown in is output to the playlist analyzer .

In the example of a playlist is expressed in the XML format. A character string described in the tag UserEditListName is ID information for uniquely identifying the playlist. For example if all playlists generated by the video editing device are assigned serial Nos. the serial Nos. can be satisfactorily used as identifiers IDs for the playlists in the video editing device .

Information about a list of specified video ranges is described in the tag EventList. The tags Event immediately below the tag EventList each indicate a range specified for a corresponding video file. The tag Offset immediately below the tag Event indicates the time point unit frame on the time axis of the playlist at which the specified range begins. The tag Duration indicates the length of time unit frame that the video continues from that time point. Specifically in the example of the first one of the tags Event indicates that a specified range of a video indicated in the tag Source continues from the beginning Offset 0 of the playlist to the 61st frame Duration 61 . In this example the tag Source has a description that the start point of a video file whose GlobalClipID is 060A2B340101010501010D4313000000A50A306F446605EB00804582FCF7D003 is the 51st frame Offset 51 . Specifically the first specified range of a video contained on the playlist continues from the 51st frame to the 112th frame of the video file whose GlobalClipID is 060A2B340101010501010D4313000000A50A306F446605EB00804582FCF7D003. The second one of the tag Event can be similarly analyzed.

The playlist analyzer initially extracts from an input playlist ID information for uniquely identifying video data and range specifying information related to the video. In the example of extracted are the value of GlobalClipID as the video ID information and the value of Duration and the value of Offset below the tag Source as the range specifying information. The playlist analyzer also looks the extracted video ID information up in the proxy database . As described above the proxy database can be used to search for information for identifying an external terminal which is highly likely to have a recording medium which stores a main track video file related to the video using the video ID information as a search key. In this embodiment information about the serial No. model name and manufacturer of a video camera which was used to capture the corresponding video data is obtained. Thus the information for identifying an external terminal and the video ID information which have been obtained by the playlist analyzer are input to the extraction command issuance unit .

The extraction command issuance unit is software which issues through a network a command to the external terminal to transfer main track video data. Specifically the extraction command issuance unit generates text data such as for example that shown in based on an output of the playlist analyzer and transmits the text data to the external terminal . Note that in this example a value stored in the tag CommandID is an identifier which is uniquely assigned to each command issued by the extraction command issuance unit . A location e.g. an IP address in a network of an external terminal as a transmission source may be obtained by querying the external terminal manager using information for identifying an external terminal that has been received from the playlist analyzer as a key. Commands may be transmitted by for example when a transfer request analyzer which is software which waits for a command in the video camera is a server which waits at a particular port of TCP transmitting the text data of to the particular port. In this example it is assumed that one command is issued for specifying of each range. Alternatively when the same external terminal is requested to transfer a plurality of ranges a single command indicating these ranges may be issued.

Note that when no external terminal that matches the ID for identifying the external terminal has been found on the network the extraction command issuance unit informs the reception error detector of the error.

On the other hand as shown in the video camera when receiving the command to transfer main track video data analyzes the details of the command using the transfer request analyzer . In this example the values of GlobalClipID Offset and Duration are extracted using the XML parser. These extracted values are input to the video extractor .

The video extractor initially searches the recording medium inserted in the video camera for a specified video ID i.e. main track video data corresponding to GlobalClipID in this example. Thereafter if the main track video data has not been found the video editing device is informed of the error through a network. The error information received by the video editing device is processed by the reception error detector .

If the main track video data has been found the video extractor reads the main track video data from the recording medium to obtain video data extracted from the specified range. Specifically in the case of the example command of new video data of the 51st frame to the 112th frame of the main track video file whose GlobalClipID is 060A2B340101010501010D4313000000A50A306F446605EB00804582FCF7D003 is obtained. Thereafter the video data is transferred to the video editing device using the wireless communication unit . As a specific example technique for performing this transfer when the main track video receiver included in the video editing device may be software having the FTP server function the video extractor may function as an FTP client to transfer video data. The value of CommandID assigned to the command may be directly used as the character string of a transfer file name which is used in the transfer. This is because the main track video receiver included in the video editing device can easily determine what command issued by the extraction command issuance unit the received main track video data has been transferred in accordance with.

The main track video receiver included in the video editing device is software which receives main track video data which is transferred by the video extractor included in the video camera through a network. As described above an example of the main track video receiver is FTP server software. The main track video receiver also stores the received main track video data as a video file in the second recording medium . shows an example technique of storing a video file in the second recording medium . In the root folder of the second recording medium a folder whose folder name is the ID information of a playlist in this embodiment a character string described in the tag UserEditListName of the playlist is generated. A CONTENTS folder is generated immediately below the folder . A video file related to a playlist having ID information after which the folder is named is stored in the CONTENTS folder. A VIDEO folder is generated immediately below the CONTENTS folder. The received main track video data is stored in the VIDEO folder. In this example one of video files generated from main track video data obtained from a video camera is stored in the file name of 00a.mxf . When a plurality of pieces of main track video data have been obtained video files having different file names are generated and stored in the VIDEO folder.

If all main track video files have been successfully obtained the playlist changing unit rewrites a playlist generated by the playlist generator in a format shown in and stores the resultant playlist to the third recording medium . This playlist is different from the playlist output by the playlist generator in that a video file in the tag Source is specified using Name this indicates the file name of a main track video file in the second recording medium instead of using GlobalClipID. This is because main track video which the video camera has transferred to the video editing device contains only an extracted necessary portion. The manipulation of a video i.e. extraction of a portion from the video causes the contents of a video indicated by GlobalClipID used in to differ from the contents of a main track video file stored in the second recording medium . Therefore GlobalClipID used on the playlist of as information for specifying main track video stored in the second recording medium cannot be used. Instead on the playlist of a file name used in storing main track video data in the second recording medium is used as information for specifying a main track video file. Note that this file specifying technique is merely an example. Alternatively for example a new GlobalClipID may be generated and used in association with a main track video file in the second recording medium .

On the playlist of all the values of Offset immediately below the tags Source are 0. This is because main track videos transferred by the video camera to the video editing device each contain only an extracted necessary portion. Main track video data which has been transferred from the video camera and stored in the second recording medium has been obtained by removing a portion preceding a range specified by the user on the playlist of . Therefore on the playlist of the value of Offset needs to be set to 0. 

Note that the above process of rewriting the contents of a playlist which is performed by the playlist changing unit even when main track video data has been successfully obtained is necessary because only a necessary portion is extracted in order for the video camera to transfer main track video to the video editing device . If the video camera is configured to transfer the entirety of a main track video file identified by a specified video ID the playlist changing unit does not necessarily need to rewrite a portion of a playlist for which main track video has been successfully obtained.

On the other hand the reception error detector is software or hardware which detects a failure in a request for transfer of main track video data which is issued by the extraction command issuance unit . A failure to obtain main track video data is typically caused as described above when the external terminal to which the extraction command issuance unit tries to issue a command does not exist on the network or when the video extractor determines that main track video data requested by the extraction command issuance unit does not exist in the recording medium included in the video camera . The reception error detector when informed that main track video data has not been successfully obtained for the above reason informs the video supplementation unit of the ID information of the video data which has not been successfully obtained.

The video supplementation unit copies a proxy video file corresponding to the video ID received from the reception error detector from the first recording medium to the second recording medium . shows an example technique of copying a proxy video file. In a PROXY folder is generated below the above CONTENTS folder and a proxy video file is copied to the PROXY folder under the name 00b.mp4 . Because a proxy video file is stored in a folder which is different from a VIDEO folder in which a main track video file is stored it can be clearly recognized what video file is a main track video file and what video file is a proxy video file.

When main track video data has not been successfully obtained the reception error detector informs the playlist changing unit of the video ID information of the video data which has not been successfully obtained. The playlist changing unit changes and rewrites the contents of a playlist generated by the playlist generator so that a proxy video file is referred to instead of the main track video data which has not been successfully received and stores the resultant playlist in the third recording medium .

The value of GlobalClipID is described in the tag Source. This is in order to when for example the recording medium which used to be inserted in the external terminal is physically brought to the user easily detect a correspondence between a main track video file stored in the recording medium and a video missing from a playlist possessed by the user . By checking GlobalClipID described in a meta data file in the recording medium against GlobalClipID described in a playlist main track data which is missing from the playlist can be mechanically and easily extracted.

With the above configuration a playlist stored in the third recording medium refers to a high resolution video for a portion for which a main track video file has been successfully obtained and a low resolution video instead of a high resolution video for a portion for which a main track video file has not been successfully obtained. Therefore a video as a result of playback of the playlist has best quality that can be obtained through a network at that time.

When main track video data has not been successfully obtained the reception error detector informs the missing video manager of four items of information i.e. the video ID information of video data which has not been successfully obtained the file name of a proxy video substituted for that video the start and end points of a range specified in a playlist for that video and the ID of the playlist containing that video data. The missing video manager records these items of information to the missing video database . As a result for a particular video ID it can be easily determined whether or not there is any playlist for which main track video data has not been successfully obtained and if any what playlist it is and what portion of the video is necessary on the playlist. This is used in an arrangement for automatically repairing missing main track video data which will be described below.

The video editing device further includes the network storage provider . The network storage provider is software which allows the user to refer to the contents of the second recording medium and the third recording medium through a network. Specifically an example of the network storage provider is server software which supports a protocol used for providing an online storage such as a SAMBA server an Network File System NFS server or a Web based Distributed Authoring and Versioning WebDAV server. The network storage provider allows the user to copy a video having best quality that can be available at that time to their own computer through a network.

Next an arrangement for automatically repairing main track video data missing from the second recording medium will be described.

The video camera further includes a recording medium content detector . The recording medium content detector is software which scans all main track video files stored in the recording medium of the video camera to generate a list of video ID information of the main track video files and transmits the list to the video editing device through a network. The recording medium content detector may perform the above operation for example at a timing when an event such as network connection is established between a video camera and a video editing device or a new recording medium is inserted into a video camera is detected. shows example information which is transmitted from the recording medium content detector to the video editing device at this time. Information for uniquely identifying a video camera as a transmission source is described in the tag Device. The tag Clip corresponds to each main track video file stored in the recording medium and GlobalClipID is ID information for uniquely identifying the video. Specifically the example of shows that three main track video files are stored in the recording medium . Note that the tag Shot described in this example is used to when a plurality of video files are generated by performing recording operation once e.g. a video is recorded to a plurality of recording media because the recording time is long video data to be recorded has a size exceeding an upper file size limit of a file system employed in a recording medium etc. collect these video files and define the order in which the video files are to be played back.

Note that as a technique of transmitting the information for example when the external terminal content information obtaining unit which is software for waiting for the information in the video editing device is a server which waits at a particular port of TCP the text data of may be transmitted to the particular port.

Information transmitted from the recording medium content detector of the video camera is received and processed by the external terminal content information obtaining unit in the video editing device . The external terminal content information obtaining unit analyzes the received information to look video ID information contained therein up in the missing video manager . As described above the missing video manager which includes the missing video database can easily determine using a particular video ID as a search key whether or not there is any playlist for which the main track video data has not been successfully obtained and if any what playlist playlist ID it is and what portion of the video is necessary on the playlist.

If as a result of the looking up it is determined that the recording medium of the video camera contains video data for which the video editing device has failed to obtain main track video data the video editing device performs the following operation for each piece of such video data.

The external terminal content information obtaining unit included in the video editing device informs the main track video extractor of information obtained from the missing video manager i.e. video ID information the file name of a proxy video file substituted for the video the start and end points of a specified range of the video on a playlist and the ID of the playlist containing the video data and information for uniquely identifying a video camera which has transmitted a list of video IDs in this embodiment information described in the tag Device of . 

The extraction command issuance unit included in the main track video extractor commands through a network a designated external terminal to start transfer of video data of a main track video which has been received from the missing video manager . An example technique of identifying a location on a network of an external terminal to which a command is to be issued and an example command to be transmitted are the same as those described above which are used in processing an output of the playlist analyzer .

The operation of the video camera which is performed when the above transfer start command is received is also the same as when a command which originates from an output of the playlist analyzer is processed as described above i.e. the command of is processed . A necessary portion of main track video data which has been extracted by the video extractor included in the video camera is transmitted to the main track video receiver included in the video editing device .

The main track video receiver which has received the main track video data initially searches the second recording medium for a folder which stores video data related to a playlist ID which has been received from the external terminal content information obtaining unit . In this embodiment as described above a folder whose folder name is the ID of a playlist is generated in the root folder of the second recording medium and therefore the folder can be easily accessed. Next the main track video receiver stores newly obtained main track video data as a video file immediately below a VIDEO folder and deletes a proxy video file which has been substituted . As a result the configuration of folders and files is the same as when all main track video data has been successfully obtained from the beginning

The playlist changing unit also changes the contents of a playlist having a playlist ID received from the external terminal content information obtaining unit the playlist being stored in the third recording medium to add the change to the third recording medium . Here the term add the change means overwriting an existing playlist with a new playlist to store the new playlist. The change which the playlist changing unit performed on a playlist in the third recording medium means that a description of a proxy video which has been substituted for a main track video in a playlist is rewritten to a description of a newly obtained main track video file.

The above playlist of will be described as an example. In this example for the second video on the playlist a proxy video file named 00b.mp4 is used instead of main track video data. This can be determined based on an attribute denoted as proxy yes attached to the tag Source. In this situation it is assumed that a main track video related to this video has been newly obtained. As described above it is assumed that the video camera transmits only a specified range or portion extracted from main track video data to the video editing device . The playlist changing unit recognizes that the newly obtained main track video file is related to the second video on the playlist based on information in this case particularly the file name of a proxy video file which is substituted which has been received from the missing video manager . Therefore the playlist changing unit deletes the proxy attribute from the tag Source which is a description of the video deletes the tag GlobalClipID and sets the value of Offset to 0. The reason why the tag GlobalClipID is deleted and Offset is set to 0 in order to refer to main track video data is that which has been described above. Thereafter the file name described in the tag Name is rewritten to the file name of the newly obtained main track video file in the second recording medium . For example in this example if it is assumed that the file name is 00b.mxf the playlist of modified by the playlist changing unit is the same as the playlist of .

When the playlist changing unit has changed an existing playlist then if a change has occurred in the quality of a video which is to be provided to the user the video editing device transmits an informative mail to the user using the external electronic mail server . This is in order to allow the user to quickly know that a high resolution video is available.

With the above configuration a video editing device can be constructed so that even if the video editing device has failed to obtain high resolution video data because for example a recording medium has been removed from a video camera the user can obtain a best editing result that is available at that time. Also the video editing device can automatically search for the high resolution video data which the video editing device has failed to obtain on a network and adds a change to the editing result.

Note that the number of pixels per video frame is predicted to continue to increase. Therefore even if the transmission speed of a communication network is further increased in the future the above usefulness of low resolution video data is expected not to decrease.

In the first embodiment the external terminal content information obtaining unit included in the video editing device is assumed to be software which obtains using a network a list of the ID information of main track video data stored in the recording medium included in the external terminal connected to the video editing device through a network. However a large number of main track video files may be stored in the recording medium . Therefore problems may arise such as that the size of data which the external terminal content information obtaining unit exchanges with the external terminal becomes large and that the number of video IDs for which the external terminal content information obtaining unit queries the missing video manager becomes large.

With this situation in mind as a simple technique missing video may be managed for each recording medium of the external terminal . This technique is based on the following idea. In a place where shooting is performed it is less likely that main track video data is moved from one recording medium to another recording medium. Therefore if a recording medium has been successfully identified a video file stored therein may be guessed.

In the first embodiment the reception error detector when informed that a reception error has occurred informs the missing video manager of ID information for uniquely identifying a main track video which has not been successfully received a range of the main track video data which has been selected by the user and the ID of a playlist which used to contain the range of the main track video data. However in this embodiment the reception error detector additionally informs the missing video manager of the ID of a recording medium which stores a main track video which has not been successfully received.

In the missing video database included in the missing video manager the video ID information which has been received from the reception error detector a range of the main track video data which has been selected by the user the ID of a playlist which used to contain the range of the main track video data and the ID of a recording medium which contains the main track video are registered. The database thus constructed can be easily searched and referenced using the ID of a particular recording medium as a search key to determine whether or not there is any main track video data which the video editing device has failed to obtain of those which are presumed to be stored in the recording medium and if any what video ID the video has and what portion of the video has been selected.

The video editing device includes a connected media information obtaining unit . The connected media information obtaining unit is software which obtains using a network ID information for uniquely identifying the recording medium included in the external terminal connected to the video editing device through a network. Here the ID information for uniquely identifying the recording medium is for example a character string expressing the manufacturer and serial No. of the recording medium. The ID of a recording medium may be obtained by the connected media information obtaining unit querying the external terminal at a timing when connection between the external terminal and the video editing device is established and thereafter information of the external terminal is registered in the external terminal database or at regular timings or alternatively by the external terminal informing the connected media information obtaining unit of the ID thereof at a timing when connection to a network is established at a timing when the recording medium is inserted or removed or at regular timings.

The connected media information obtaining unit also has a function of comparing the ID information of a recording medium inserted in an external terminal that has been obtained by the above procedure with the ID information of recording mediums which is registered in the missing video manager and if there is matching ID information informs the extraction command issuance unit of information necessary to access the external terminal having the recording medium the ID of a main track video data presumed to be stored in the recording medium having the ID and information of a selected range and the ID of a playlist in which missing has occurred that are registered in the missing video manager in association with the video data.

With the above configuration the location of main track video data to be obtained is determined based on the ID of a recording medium instead of a list of video IDs whereby the total amount of information exchanged between the external terminal and the video editing device and the load on the missing video database can be reduced compared to the first embodiment.

Operation of the video editing device will now be described showing example data having specific values. In particular differences from the first embodiment will be described.

As described above information of which the reception error detector informs the missing video manager includes in addition to those described in the first embodiment the ID of a recording medium which stores a main track video which has not been successfully received. In this embodiment the ID information of a recording medium storing video data is described in a meta data file which is transmitted from the external terminal together with a proxy video file and is received by the video editing device using the proxy video receiver . The ID information of a recording medium storing video data is information described in the tag Media in the example meta data of . Here the ID information of a recording medium storing video data i.e. ID information for uniquely identifying a recording medium hereinafter referred to as recording medium ID information includes a set of the manufacturer name Manufacturer serial No. SerialNo. and model name ModelName of the recording medium.

The proxy video receiver analyzes the contents of a meta data file and records to the proxy database the above recording medium ID information as information for identifying a recording medium storing a main track video file corresponding to a received proxy video file in addition to the information described in the first embodiment. The proxy database thus configured makes it easy to search using ID information for identifying a video as a search key not only for information for identifying the location in the first recording medium of a proxy video file related to the video or an external terminal which is highly likely to have a recording medium storing a main track video file related to the video but also for information for identifying a recording medium which is highly likely to store a main track video file.

As described above the reception error detector when informed that a reception error has occurred informs the missing video manager of the ID of a recording medium storing a main track video which has not been successfully received in addition to the information described in the first embodiment. The recording medium ID which the missing video manager is to be informed of can be easily obtained from the proxy database using the ID of a video which has not been successfully obtained as a search key.

With the above configuration the missing video database included in the missing video manager stores five items of information i.e. the video ID information of video data which has not been successfully obtained the file name of a proxy video which is substituted for that video the start and end points of a range of that video specified in a playlist the ID of a playlist which used to contain that video data and the ID of a recording medium presumed to store that video data. As a result for a particular recording medium ID it can be easily determined whether or not there is any video which the video editing device has failed to obtain of main track video data presumed to be stored in the recording medium and if any what video it is what playlist the video is put on and what portion of the video is necessary on the playlist.

The video camera includes a recording medium ID detector . The recording medium ID detector is software which detects the recording medium ID of a recording medium of the video camera and transmits the information to a video editing device through a network. The recording medium ID detector may for example perform the above operation at a timing when an event is detected such as that network connection is established between the video camera and the video editing device or that a new recording medium is inserted into the video camera . shows example information which is at that time transmitted from the recording medium ID detector to the video editing device . Information for uniquely identifying a video camera which is a transmission source is described in the tag Device and a recording medium ID is described in the tag Media. 

Information transmitted from the recording medium ID detector of the video camera is received and processed by the connected media information obtaining unit in the video editing device . The connected media information obtaining unit analyzes the received information and looks recording medium ID information contained therein up in the missing video manager . As described above the missing video manager can be used using a particular recording medium ID as a search key to easily determine whether or not there is any video which the video editing device has failed to obtain of main track video data presumed to be stored in the recording medium and if any what video it is what playlist the video is put on and what portion of the video is necessary on the playlist.

If as a result of the looking up it is determined that there may be main track video data which the video editing device has failed to obtain in the recording medium of the video camera an attempt is made again to obtain high resolution video data for each piece of such video data using the same procedure that has been described in the first embodiment. When the attempt has succeeded main track video data missing from the second recording medium is automatically repaired in the same manner that has been described in the first embodiment.

With the above configuration a video editing device can be constructed so that even if the video editing device has failed to obtain high resolution video data because for example a recording medium has been removed from a video camera the user can obtain a best editing result that is available at that time. Also the video editing device can automatically search for the high resolution video data which the video editing device has failed to obtain on a network and if it is found adds a change to the editing result based on the high resolution video data. A high resolution video is searched for using the ID of a recording medium presumed to store the video instead of the ID of the video itself Therefore when a video file has been moved to another recording medium a high resolution video file cannot be obtained which is disadvantageous. However the amount of communication between a video editing device and an external terminal and the amount of processing performed in a video editing device are significantly reduced compared to the first embodiment. In a place where shooting is performed it is less likely that a video file is moved from one recording medium to another recording medium. Therefore the above system can satisfactorily achieve the advantages of the present disclosure in practical use.

By using the above video editing device of the first or second embodiment the user can browse a video captured by a video camera using a low resolution video from a remote place through a network to select a necessary range. The user who is far away from a video camera can receive a selected range of high resolution video data from the video camera. Even if a video camera has been turned off or a recording medium has been removed from a video camera when the user begins receiving high resolution video data the user can obtain a video having best quality that is available at that time. The video editing device automatically continues to search for a portion of a high resolution video which has not been successfully obtained and if such a portion is found a low resolution video is replaced with the portion of the high resolution video. Therefore after a certain period of time has passed it can be expected that all high resolution videos have been obtained.

In the foregoing description the first and second embodiments have been illustrated as examples of the technology disclosed herein. The present disclosure is not limited to these. The present disclosure is applicable to the embodiments to which changes replacements additions deletions etc. have been made. Parts of the first and second embodiments may be combined to obtain other new embodiments.

In the first and second embodiments for the sake of convenience a proxy video and a main track video are stored in separate recording media i.e. the first recording medium and the second recording medium respectively. These media do not necessarily need to be physically separate recording media. Also for the sake of convenience in a main track video and a playlist are stored in separate recording media i.e. the second recording medium and the third recording medium respectively. These media do not necessarily need to be physically separate recording media.

Although in the first embodiment the video camera including the image capture unit is used as an example of the external terminal the external terminal does not necessarily need to include the image capture unit . The external terminal may be any electronic equipment that has the function of generating high resolution video data and low resolution video data and the function of transferring video data to the video editing device through a network. The source video may be obtained from an external input. Alternatively a video stored in a recording medium included in the external terminal may be directly used as the source video. The above example communication means included in the external terminal employs wireless communications but does not necessarily need to be wireless. The communication means only needs to have the function of transferring video data to external equipment and therefore for example may be a wired LAN or a telephone line.

Although the video camera of the first embodiment stores a meta data file in the recording medium in addition to a high resolution video file and a low resolution video file the video file and the meta data file do not necessarily need to be separate files. The additional information may be embedded in the video file e.g. the additional information may be stored in a meta data area of MXF or a FREE area of MPEG4.

The video extractor is not essential for the video camera of the first embodiment. This is because even when the video camera of the first embodiment is configured to transfer to the video editing device the entirety of a main track video file corresponding to a video ID which the video camera has been informed of the subject matter of the present disclosure can be achieved. However it may take a lot of time to transfer high bit rate main track video data when a network between the external terminal and the video editing device has some level of quality. Therefore it is reasonable to extract and transfer only a specified portion in order to complete transfer of a necessary range of video as quickly as possible.

Although in the first embodiment the playlist generator provides the playlist generation function to the user through a web server the playlist generation function does not necessarily need to be used through a network. The playlist generation function may be provided in any form that has the function of specifying a necessary video range using low resolution video data. The video editing device may include a screen and the playlist generation function may be an application which is directly operated by the user on the screen.

In the first embodiment the second recording medium and the third recording medium may be a recording medium in which a plurality of folders can be generated to store video files etc. i.e. may be a hard disk drive HDD or a solid state drive SSD formatted in some file system. The file system does not necessarily need to be involved in handling the second recording medium and the third recording medium in order to achieve the advantages of the present disclosure. For example the second recording medium and the third recording medium may be a primary storage device i.e. a main memory of a computer. In this case the second recording medium and the third recording medium may be only a temporary data storage which is used in the process in which the user stores electronic data output by the main track video receiver or the playlist manager to their own computer through a network and may not need to permanently store the data. Also in this case the network storage provider is software which transfers data in a memory to a computer of the user . Specifically the network storage provider may be software such as FTP client software or web server software.

As described above embodiments of the technology disclosed herein have been illustrated. To do so the accompanying drawings and the detailed description have been provided.

Therefore the components described in the drawings and the detailed description may include not only components essential for achieving the present disclosure but also non essential components which are used to illustrate the above technology. Therefore the non essential components should not be immediately considered as being essential because those components are described in the drawings and the detailed description.

The above embodiments are for the purpose of illustration of the technology of the present disclosure and therefore various changes replacements additions deletions etc. can be made thereto within the scope of the claims or equivalents thereof.

The video editing device of the present disclosure allows the user who is located far from a video camera to copy video data captured by the video camera to their own personal computer PC . In addition a necessary portion of the video can be obtained with best quality that is available at that time through a network. For example this means that the staff in a broadcast station can obtain a high quality and most recent video without waiting for a cameraman who has gathered news at a remote place to return to the office. An increase in operation speed and a reduction in cost of systems can be expected in industries which provide video services.

