---

title: Apparatuses, systems, and associated methods for forming organic porous masses for flavored smoke filters
abstract: Organic porous masses may be used in flavored smoke filters. Production of organic porous masses may involve introducing a matrix material into a mold cavity, the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles, a plurality of organic particles, and a microwave enhancement additive; heating at least a portion of the matrix material so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points, thereby forming an organic porous mass length, wherein heating involves irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material; and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding an organic porous mass.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215894&OS=09215894&RS=09215894
owner: Celanese Acetate LLC
number: 09215894
owner_city: Irving
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140311
---
The present invention relates to apparatuses systems and associated methods for high throughput manufacturing organic porous masses that may be used in flavored smoke filters.

Flavored smoking devices e.g. cigarettes make up a large market segment especially in Eastern Asia Indonesia and India. Conventionally flavored smoking devices are made by spraying a flavorant typically an essential oil in an alcohol solution onto the tobacco or filters used to make up the smoking devices. When such tobacco is smoked the flavorant volatilizes and enters the smoke stream imparting flavor to the smoker. However much of the taste effect of the flavorant is lost in the sidestream smoke of the smoking devices as the tobacco burns with only a small percentage reaching the smoker through the filter. As a result excessive amounts of flavorant are generally applied to the tobacco in order to achieve a satisfactory taste effect.

Furthermore a significant amount of the flavorant is lost to the atmosphere during the spraying application which is the primary way of applying it to the tobacco. Another related disadvantage is that during storage and distribution of the smoking devices a large percentage of the volatile flavorant is lost from the tobacco through the package thereby limiting the effective shelf life of the product.

In alternate methods to impart flavor to cigarettes various carbon or silica gel materials have been impregnated with flavorant and the impregnated material is then used as the filter element in a cigarette. While these techniques provide some advantages over use of flavorant in tobacco they still leave much to be desired particularly insofar as delivery of the flavoring agent during smoking of the cigarette and minimal use of flavoring agent in order to obtain a satisfactory taste in the final cigarette product. Further the use of particulate additives e.g. carbon and silica can cause the draw resistance measured as encapsulated pressure drop EPD of the filter to change which may turn off consumers.

Therefore despite continued research there remains an interest in developing improved and more effective mechanisms for adding flavorant to smoking devices that minimally affect draw characteristics of the smoking device.

The present invention relates to apparatuses systems and associated methods for manufacturing organic porous masses that may be used in flavored smoke filters including high throughput methods and associated apparatuses and systems.

The organic porous masses described herein utilize organic particles rather than essential oils to introduce flavor into the smoke stream. As used herein the term organic particles refers to natural compositions that are capable of imparting a flavor e.g. by releasing essential oils when heated or as another fluid is drawn through the filter. The use of organic particles allows for the flavorant to be in a natural state which prolongs product shelf life and mitigates flavorant deterioration e.g. by oxidation . Further traditional filters e.g. cellulose acetate tow filters that include flavorants sprayed thereon typically lose a significant amount of flavor through the end of the cigarette. The organic porous masses described herein may advantageously be utilized in an internal segment of a segmented filter i.e. having at least one filter segment on either side which may provide for additional flavor retention and shelf life.

Organic porous masses may be incorporated as segments or sections in a smoking device filter. In some embodiments the increased temperature of the smoke stream may enhance the release of flavorant from the organic particles.

Further the encapsulated pressure drop a measure of draw resistance can be tailored for the organic porous masses. For example the length of the organic porous masses can be changed which can change the flavorant dosage to the smoker. This tailorability may also allow for the production of filters with essentially the same EPD as filters without the organic porous masses which then may allow for easier market acceptance of the new flavorant mechanism.

The term organic porous mass as used herein refers to a mass comprising a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of organic particles mechanically bound at a plurality of contact points. Said contact points may be organic particle binder contact points binder binder contact points and or organic particle organic particle contact points. As used herein the terms mechanical bond mechanically bonded physical bond and the like refer to a physical connection that holds two particles together. Mechanical bonds may be rigid or flexible depending on the bonding material. Mechanical bonding may or may not involve chemical bonding. Generally the mechanical bonding does not involve an adhesive though in some embodiments an adhesive may be used after mechanical bonding to adhere other additives to portions of the organic porous mass.

As used herein the terms particle and particulate may be used interchangeably and include all known shapes of materials including spherical and or ovular substantially spherical and or ovular discus and or platelet flake ligamental acicular fibrous polygonal such as cubic randomly shaped such as the shape of crushed rocks faceted such as the shape of crystals or any hybrid thereof.

Organic porous masses may be produced through a variety of methods. For example some embodiments may involve forming the matrix material e.g. the organic particles and binder particles into a desired shape e.g. with a mold heating the matrix material to mechanically bond the matrix material together and finishing the organic porous masses e.g. cutting the organic porous masses to a desired length . Of the various processes steps involved in the production of porous masses forming the matrix material into a desired shape while maintaining a homogenous dispersion and heating may be two of the steps that limit high throughput manufacturing. Accordingly methods that employ pneumatic dense phase feed may be involved in preferred methods for high throughput manufacturing of organic porous masses described herein e.g. about 300 m min to about 800 m min .

The organic particles described herein may be capable of converting microwaves into heat that provides for rapid sintering of the organic porous masses described herein which may allow for high throughput manufacturing of organic porous masses. However significant heating of organic particles may deteriorate the flavor e.g. by oxidizing or burning the organic particles . To mitigate such effects some embodiments may utilize microwave enhancement additives. Further the production method may be designed to maximize the function of the microwave enhancement additive and minimize the microwave interaction with the organic particles. For example some microwave enhancement additives may interact with different frequencies of microwaves to different degrees. As such microwave enhancement additives may be chosen to have a corresponding optimal microwave frequency that interacts with the organic particles to a lesser degree.

Additionally the use of organic particulates over other flavorant liquids may be that the organic particulates are capable of flowing with the binder particles for a substantially homogenous blend and consequently a more homogeneous organic porous mass. Whereas the use of a liquid flavorant would most likely cause clumping of the binder particles and defects in the organic porous masses produced therefrom.

It should be noted that when about is provided herein in reference to a number in a numerical list the term about modifies each number of the numerical list. It should be noted that in some numerical listings of ranges some lower limits listed may be greater than some upper limits listed. One skilled in the art will recognize that the selected subset will require the selection of an upper limit in excess of the selected lower limit.

The process of forming organic porous masses may include continuous processing methods batch processing methods or hybrid continuous batch processing methods. As used herein continuous processing refers to manufacturing or producing materials without interruption. Material flow may be continuous indexed or combinations of both. As used herein batch processing refers to manufacturing or producing materials as a single component or group of components at individual stations before the single component or group proceeds to the next station. As used herein continuous batch processing refers to a hybrid of the two where some processes or series of processes occur continuously and others occur by batch.

Generally organic porous masses may be formed from matrix materials. As used herein the term matrix material refers to the precursors e.g. binder particles and organic particles used to form organic porous masses. In some embodiments the matrix material may comprise consist of or consist essentially of binder particles and organic particles. In some embodiments the matrix material may comprise binder particles organic particles and additives. Nonlimiting examples of suitable binder particles organic particles and additives are provided in this disclosure.

As described above the encapsulated pressure drop EPD a measure of the draw characteristics of a filter may depend on inter alia the size and shape of the binder particles the size and shape of the organic particles the concentration of each of the binder particles inorganic particles and the size shape and concentration of any additives. As such the manufacturing methods described herein may in some embodiments involve sizing the matrix material or components thereof. For example sizing may involve filtering or sieving the matrix material or components thereof e.g. with standard mesh procedures.

The use of organic particles described herein in some instances pose unique manufacturing challenges. For example organic particles for use in organic porous masses may be produced by grinding natural compositions. It should be noted that unless otherwise specified the term grinding encompasses similar processes like cutting chopping crushing milling pulverizing and the like including cryogenic versions of the foregoing.

In some instances the grinding or the like of natural materials releases moisture and essential oils that can cause the organic particles to aggregate which changes the corresponding organic particle size and may ultimately affect the characteristics of the organic porous masses produced therefrom. Further when producing organic porous masses with such aggregates it has been observed that some of the organic porous masses have wrinkled wrappers voids and dents.

To mitigate organic particle aggregation some embodiments may involve drying the organic particles. In some instances drying may involve heating the organic particles at a reduced air pressure i.e. a pressure less than atmospheric pressure . For example a vacuum oven at about 20 C. to about 80 C. including subsets thereof e.g. about 40 C. to about 60 C. may be utilized for minutes to hours depending on inter alia the amount of organic particles the relative surface area and the air pressure during heating. It should be noted that the drying temperature may be outside the preferred range described and is within the scope of the present invention.

In some instances drying the organic particles may occur before after and or during sizing the organic particles. In some instances sizing may be eliminated where the grinding process or the like provides a desired organic particle size and drying minimizes aggregation.

Forming organic porous masses may generally include forming a matrix material into a shape e.g. suitable for incorporating into as smoking device filter a water filter an air filter or the like and mechanically bonding e.g. by sintering at least a portion of the matrix material at a plurality of contact points e.g. a plurality of sintered contact points .

Forming a matrix material into a shape may involve a mold cavity. In some embodiments a mold cavity may be a single piece or a collection of single pieces either with or without end caps plates or plugs. In some embodiments a mold cavity may be multiple mold cavity parts that when assembled form a mold cavity. In some embodiments mold cavity parts may be brought together with the assistance of conveyors belts and the like. In some embodiments a mold cavity or parts thereof may be stationary along the material path and configured to allow for conveyors belts and the like to pass therethrough where the mold cavity may expand and contract radially to provide a desired level of compression to the matrix material.

A mold cavity may have any cross sectional shape including but not limited to circular substantially circular ovular substantially ovular polygonal like triangular square rectangular pentagonal star and so on polygonal with rounded edges including flower like donut and the like or any hybrid thereof. In some embodiments organic porous masses may have a cross sectional shape comprising holes or channels which may be achieved by the use of one or more dies by machining by an appropriately shaped mold cavity or any other suitable method e.g. degradation of a degradable material . In some embodiments the organic porous mass may have a specific shape for a cigarette holder or pipe that is adapted to fit within the cigarette holder or pipe to allow for smoke passage through the filter to the consumer. When discussing the shape of an organic porous mass herein with respect to a traditional smoking device filter the shape may be referred to in terms of diameter or circumference wherein the circumference is the perimeter of a circle of the cross section of the cylinder. But in embodiments where an organic porous mass of the present invention is in a shape other than a true cylinder it should be understood that the term circumference is used to mean the perimeter of any shaped cross section including a circular cross section.

Generally mold cavities may have a longitudinal direction and a radial direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction e.g. a substantially cylindrical shape. One skilled in the art should understand how to translate the embodiments presented herein to mold cavities without defined longitudinal and radial direction e.g. spheres and cubes where applicable. In some embodiments a mold cavity may have a cross sectional shape that changes along the longitudinal direction e.g. a conical shape a shape that transitions from square to circular or a spiral. In some embodiments with a sheet shaped mold cavity e.g. formed by an opening between two plates the longitudinal direction would be the machine direction or flow of matrix material direction. In some embodiments a mold cavity may be paper rolled or shaped into a desired cross sectional shape e.g. a cylinder. In some embodiments a mold cavity may be a cylinder of paper glued at the longitudinal seam.

In some embodiments mold cavities may have a longitudinal axis having an opening as a first end and a second end along said longitudinal axis. In some embodiments matrix material may pass along the longitudinal axis of a mold cavity during processing. By way of nonlimiting example shows mold cavity with a longitudinal axis along material path .

In some embodiments mold cavities may have a longitudinal axis having a first end and a second end along said longitudinal axis wherein at least one end is closed. In some embodiments said closed end may be capable of opening.

In some embodiments individual mold cavities may be filled with a matrix material prior to mechanical bonding e.g. sintering or forming sintered contact points . In some embodiments a single mold cavity may be used to continuously produce organic porous masses by continuously passing matrix material therethrough before and or during mechanical bonding. In some embodiments a single mold cavity may be used to produce an individual organic porous mass. In some embodiments said single mold cavity may be reused and or continuously reused to produce a plurality of individual organic porous masses.

In some embodiments mold cavities may be at least partially lined with wrappers and or coated with release agents. In some embodiments wrappers may be individual wrappers e.g. pieces of paper. In some embodiments wrappers may be spoolable length wrappers e.g. a 50 ft roll of paper.

In some embodiments mold cavities may be lined with more than one wrapper. In some embodiments forming organic porous masses may include lining a mold cavity s with a wrapper s . In some embodiments forming organic porous masses may include wrapping the matrix material with wrappers so that the wrapper effectively forms the mold cavity. In such embodiments the wrapper may be performed as a mold cavity formed as a mold cavity in the presence of the matrix material or wrapped around matrix material that is in a preformed shape e.g. with the aid of a tackifier . In some embodiments wrappers may be continuously fed through a mold cavity. Wrappers may be capable of holding the organic porous mass in a shape capable of releasing the organic porous masses from the mold cavities capable of assisting in passing matrix material through the mold cavity capable of protecting the organic porous mass during handling or shipment and any combination thereof.

Suitable wrappers may include but not be limited to papers e.g. wood based papers papers containing flax flax papers papers produced from other natural or synthetic fibers functionalized papers special marking papers colorized papers plastics e.g. fluorinated polymers like polytetrafluoroethylene silicone films coated papers coated plastics coated films and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments wrappers may be papers suitable for use in smoking device filters.

In some embodiments a wrapper may be adhered e.g. glued to itself to assist in maintaining a desired shape e.g. in a substantially cylindrical configuration. In some embodiments mechanical bonding of the matrix material may also mechanically bind or sinter the matrix material to the wrapper which may alleviate the need for adhering the wrapper to itself.

Suitable release agents may be chemical release agents or physical release agents. Nonlimiting examples of chemical release agents may include oils oil based solutions and or suspensions soapy solutions and or suspensions coatings bonded to the mold surface and the like and any combination thereof. Nonlimiting examples of physical release agents may include papers plastics and any combination thereof. Physical release agents which may be referred to as release wrappers may be implemented similar to wrappers as described herein.

Once formed into a desired cross sectional shape with the mold cavity the matrix material may be mechanically bound at a plurality of contact points. Mechanical bonding may occur during and or after the matrix material is in the mold cavity. Mechanical bonding may be achieved with heat and or pressure and without adhesive e.g. forming a sintered contact points . In some instances an adhesive may optionally be included.

Heat may be radiant heat conductive heat convective heat and any combination thereof. Heating may involve thermal sources including but not limited to heated fluids internal to the mold cavity heated fluids external to the mold cavity steam heated inert gases secondary radiation from a component of the organic porous mass e.g. nanoparticles organic particles and the like ovens furnaces flames conductive or thermoelectric materials ultrasonics and the like and any combination thereof. By way of nonlimiting example heating may involve a convection oven or heating block. Another nonlimiting example may involve heating with microwave energy single mode or multi mode applicator . In another nonlimiting example heating may involve passing heated air nitrogen or other gas through the matrix material while in the mold cavity. In some embodiments heated inert gases may be used to mitigate any unwanted oxidation of organic particles and or additives. Another nonlimiting example may involve mold cavities made of thermoelectric materials so that the mold cavity heats. In some embodiments heating may involve a combination of the foregoing e.g. passing heated gas through the matrix material while passing the matrix material through a microwave oven.

In some embodiments organic particles may be in a green form e.g. not roasted . In some embodiments heating matrix material comprising green organic particles may advantageously roast the green organic particles thereby changing the flavor profile of the organic particles. Examples of such particles may include but are not limited to coffee hops sugar and the like.

In some instances the matrix material may further comprise a microwave enhancement additive that absorb microwaves more efficiently than the organic particles described herein. As such microwave enhancement additives may allow for the production of organic porous masses including via high throughput methods with reduced time at elevated temperatures which may in turn mitigate flavor deterioration. Suitable microwave enhancement additives may include but not be limited to microwave responsive polymers carbon particles e.g. carbon black fullerenes carbon nanotubes metal nanoparticles water and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments the microwave enhancement additive may preferably not or not substantially adsorb flavorant as such adsorption may diminish the flavor delivered to a smoker.

In some embodiments microwave enhancement additives may be included in organic porous masses in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 2 or 3 to an upper limit of about 10 8 or 5 and wherein the amount may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompasses any subset therebetween. While amounts of microwave enhancement additives may be outside this range and within the scope of the present invention the amount of microwave enhancement additives may preferably be lower so as to occupy more volume than needed and allow for a higher amount of organic particles.

In some instances heat may be applied in an oxygen lean atmosphere which may mitigate oxidation of the organic particles and allow the organic particles to maintain a desirable level of flavorant with minimal undesirable byproducts. Examples of oxygen lean atmospheres may include but are not limited to argon nitrogen carbon dioxide reduced air pressures e.g. pulling a partial vacuum on the mold cavity and the like and any combination thereof e.g. purging with argon then pulling a partial vacuum . In some embodiments heat may be applied at a reduced air pressure range from a lower limit of about 14 inHg 15 inHg or 20 inHg to an upper limit of about 30 inHg 25 inHg or 20 inHg and wherein the reduced air pressure may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompasses any subset therebetween.

In some instances heat may be applied at an elevated air pressure i.e. an air pressure greater than atmospheric pressure optionally in an appropriate oxygen lean atmosphere which may advantageously mitigate volatilization of essential oils from the organic particles. In some embodiments heat may be applied at an elevated air pressure range from atmospheric pressure to about 2 atm including any subset therebetween. One skilled in the art should understand that air pressures may be used outside these ranges within the spirit of this disclosure and additional safety considerations may need to be taken into consideration.

In some instances flavor preservation may be maximized by a combination of at least two of preheating heating via microwave with a matrix material comprising a microwave enhancement additive heating in an oxygen lean atmosphere heating at an elevated air pressure and the like.

Secondary radiation from a component of the organic porous mass e.g. nanoparticles organic particles and the like may in some embodiments be achieved by irradiating the component with electromagnetic radiation e.g. gamma rays x rays UV light visible light IR light microwaves radio waves and or long radio waves. By way of nonlimiting example the matrix material may comprise carbon nanotubes that when irradiated with radio frequency waves emit heat. In another nonlimiting example the matrix material may comprise organic particles like carbon particles that are capable of converting microwave irradiation into heat that mechanically bonds or assists in mechanically bonding the binder particles together. In some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation may be tuned by the frequency and power level so as to appropriately interact with the component of choice. For example activated carbon may be used in conjunction with microwaves at a frequency ranging from about 900 MHz to about 2500 MHz with a fixed or adjustable power setting that is selected to match a target rate of heating.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that different wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation penetrate materials to different depths. Therefore when employing primary or secondary radiation methods one should consider the mold cavity material configuration and composition the matrix material composition the component that converts the electromagnetic radiation to heat the wavelength of electromagnetic radiation the intensity of the electromagnetic radiation the irradiation methods and the desired amount of secondary radiation e.g. heat.

The residence time for heating including by any method described herein e.g. convection oven or exposure to electromagnetic radiation and or applying pressure that causes the mechanical bonding e.g. forming sintered contact points to occur may be for a length of time ranging from a lower limit of about a hundredth of a second a tenth of a second 1 second 5 seconds 30 seconds or 1 minute to an upper limit of about 30 minutes 15 minutes 5 minutes 1 minute or 1 second and wherein the residence time may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompasses any subset therebetween. It should be noted that for continuous processes that utilize faster heating methods e.g. exposure to electromagnetic radiation like microwaves short residence times may be preferred e.g. about 10 seconds or less or more preferably about 1 second or less. Further processing methods that utilize processes like convection heating may provide for longer residence times on the timescale of minutes which may include residence times of greater than 30 minutes. One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that longer times can be applicable e.g. seconds to minutes to hours or longer provided that an appropriate temperature and heating profile may be selected for a given matrix material. It should be noted that preheating or pretreating methods and or steps that are not to a sufficient temperature and or pressure to allow for mechanical bonding are not considered part of the residence time as used herein.

In some embodiments heating to facilitate mechanical bonding may be to a softening temperature of a component of the matrix material. As used herein the term softening temperature refers to the temperature above which a material becomes pliable which is typically below the melting point of the material.

In some embodiments mechanical bonding may be achieved at temperatures ranging from a lower limit of about 90 C. 100 C. 110 C. 120 C. 130 C. or 140 C. or an upper limit of about 300 C. 275 C. 250 C. 225 C. 200 C. 175 C. or 150 C. and wherein the temperature may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the heating may be accomplished by subjecting material to a single temperature. In another embodiment the temperature profile may vary with time. By way of nonlimiting example a convection oven may be used. In some embodiments heating may be localized within the matrix material. By way of nonlimiting example secondary radiation from nanoparticles may heat only the matrix material proximal to the nanoparticle.

In some embodiments matrix materials may be preheated before entering mold cavities. In some embodiments matrix material may be preheated to a temperature below the softening temperature of a component of the matrix material. In some embodiments matrix material may be preheated to a temperature about 10 about 5 or about 1 below the softening temperature of a component of the matrix material. In some embodiments matrix material may be preheated to a temperature about 10 C. about 5 C. or about 1 C. below the softening temperature of a component of the matrix material. Preheating may involve heat sources including but not limited to those listed as heat sources above for achieving mechanical bonding.

In some embodiments bonding the matrix material may yield organic porous mass or organic porous mass lengths. As used herein the term organic porous mass length refers to a continuous organic porous mass i.e. an organic porous mass that is not never ending but rather long compared to organic porous masses which may be produced continuously . By way of nonlimiting example organic porous mass lengths may be produced by continuously passing matrix material through a heated mold cavity. In some embodiments the binder particles may retain their original physical shape or substantially retained their original shape e.g. no more than 10 variation e.g. shrinkage in shape from original during the mechanical bonding process i.e. the binder particles may be substantially the same shape in the matrix material and in the organic porous mass or lengths . For simplicity and readability unless otherwise specified the term organic porous mass encompasses organic porous mass sections organic porous masses and organic porous mass lengths wrapped or otherwise .

In some embodiments organic porous mass lengths may be cut to yield organic porous masses. Cutting may be achieved with a cutter. Suitable cutters may include but not be limited to blades hot blades carbide blades stellite blades ceramic blades hardened steel blades diamond blades smooth blades serrated blades lasers pressurized fluids liquid lances gas lances guillotines and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments with high speed processing cutting blades or similar devices may be positioned at an angle to match the speed of processing so as to yield organic porous masses with ends perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. In some embodiments the cutter may change position relative to the organic porous mass lengths along the longitudinal axis of the organic porous mass lengths.

In some embodiments organic porous masses and or organic porous mass lengths may be extruded. In some embodiments extrusion may involve a die. In some embodiments a die may have multiple holes being capable of extruding organic porous masses and or organic porous mass lengths.

Some embodiments may involve cutting organic porous masses and or organic porous mass lengths radially to yield organic porous mass sections. Cutting may be achieved by any known method with any known apparatus including but not limited to those described above in relation to cutting organic porous mass lengths into organic porous masses.

The length of an organic porous mass or sections thereof may range from a lower limit of about 2 mm 3 mm 5 mm 10 mm 15 mm 20 mm 25 mm or 30 mm to an upper limit of about 150 mm 100 mm 50 mm 25 mm 15 mm or 10 mm and wherein the length may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

The circumference of organic porous masses may range from a lower limit of about 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm 12 mm 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm 16 mm 17 mm 18 mm 19 mm 20 mm 21 mm 22 mm 23 mm 24 mm 25 mm or 26 mm to an upper limit of about 60 mm 50 mm 40 mm 30 mm 20 mm 29 mm 28 mm 27 mm 26 mm 25 mm 24 mm 23 mm 22 mm 21 mm 20 mm 19 mm 18 mm 17 mm or 16 mm wherein the circumference may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

One skilled in the art would recognize the dimensional requirements for organic porous masses configured for filtration devices other than smoking articles. By way of nonlimiting example organic porous masses configured for use in concentric fluid filters may be hollow cylinders with an outer diameter of about 250 mm or greater. By way of another nonlimiting example organic porous masses configure for use as a sheet in an air filter may have a relatively thin thickness e.g. about 5 mm to about 50 mm with a length and width that are tens of centimeters.

Some embodiments may involve wrapping organic porous masses with a wrapper after the matrix material has been mechanically bound e.g. after removal from the mold cavity or exiting an extrusion die. Suitable wrappers include those disclosed above.

Some embodiments may involve cooling organic porous masses. Cooling may be active or passive i.e. cooling may be assisted or occur naturally. Active cooling may involve passing a fluid over and or through the mold cavity and or organic porous masses decreasing the temperature of the local environment about the mold cavity or organic porous masses e.g. passing through a refrigerated component and any combination thereof. Active cooling may involve a component that may include but not be limited to cooling coils fluid jets thermoelectric materials and any combination thereof. The rate of cooling may be random or it may be controlled.

Some embodiments may involve transporting organic porous masses to another location. Suitable forms of transportation may include but not be limited to conveying carrying rolling pushing shipping robotic movement and the like and any combination thereof.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the plurality of apparatuses and or systems capable of producing organic porous masses. By way of nonlimiting examples illustrate a plurality of apparatuses and or systems capable of producing organic porous masses.

It should be noted that where a system is used it is within the scope of this disclosure to have an apparatus with the components of a system and vice versa.

For ease of understanding the term material path is used herein to identify the path along which matrix material and or organic porous masses will travel in a system and or apparatus. In some embodiments a material path may be contiguous. In some embodiments a material path may be noncontiguous. By way of nonlimiting example systems for batch processing with multiple independent mold cavities may be considered to have a noncontiguous material path.

Referring now to system may include hopper operably connected to material path to feed the matrix material not shown to material path . System may also include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path to form a wrapper substantially surrounding the matrix material between mold cavity and the matrix material. Heating element is in thermal communication with the matrix material while in mold cavity . Heating element may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length not shown . After the wrapped organic porous mass length exits mold cavity and is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially i.e. perpendicular to the longitudinal axis thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections.

In some embodiments feeding matrix material to a material path may involve any suitable feeder system including but not limited to hand feeding volumetric feeders mass flow feeders gravimetric feeders pressurized vessel e.g. pressurized hopper or pressurized tank augers or screws chutes slides conveyors tubes conduits channels and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments the material path may include a mechanical component between the hopper and the mold cavity including but not limited to garnitures compression molds flow through compression molds ram presses pistons shakers extruders twin screw extruders solid state extruders and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments feeding may involve but not be limited to forced feeding controlled rate feeding volumetric feeding mass flow feeding gravimetric feeding vacuum assisted feeding fluidized powder feeding pneumatic dense phase feeding e.g. via slug flow dune or irregular dune flow shearing bed or ripple flow and extrusion flow pneumatic dilute phase feeding and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments feeding the matrix material to a material path involving pneumatic dense phase feeding may advantageously allow for high throughput processing. Pneumatic dense phase feeding has been performed at high flow rates with large diameter outlets but here has unexpectedly been shown to be effective with small diameters at high speeds. For example surprisingly the use of pneumatic dense phase feeding has been demonstrated at small diameters e.g. about 5 mm to about 25 mm and about 5 mm to about 10 mm with high throughput e.g. about 575 kg hour or about 500 m min for a tubing outlet described further herein of about 6.1 mm . By comparison gravity feeding typically produces less than about 10 m min at similar diameters and pneumatic dense phase feeding may be performed at similar speeds with outlets sized at 50 mm or greater. The combination of small diameter and high throughput for a matrix material especially a granular or particulate matrix material has been unexpected. One skilled in the art would recognize the appropriate size and shape for the outlet of a pneumatic dense phase feeding apparatus to accommodate the mold cavity. By way of nonlimiting example the outlet may be similar in shape to the mold cavity but smaller than the mold cavity and extend into the mold cavity. In another example the outlet may be shaped to accommodate mold cavities for sheet organic porous masses e.g. a long rectangular shaped outlet or for hollow cylinder organic porous masses e.g. a donut shaped outlet .

Further the process of pneumatic dense phase feeding may advantageously mitigate particle migration and segregation which can be especially problematic when the binder and organic particles are sized and or shaped differently. Without being limited by theory it is believed that the air pressure applied in the pressurized hopper creates a plug flow of matrix material which minimizes particulate separation and consequently provides for a more homogeneous and consistent matrix material composition at the outlet of the feeder. In some embodiments the pressurized hopper may be designed for mass flow. Mass flow conditions may depend on inter alia the slope of the internal walls of the pressurized hopper the material of the walls and the composition of the matrix material.

In some embodiments the feeding rate of matrix material to a material path may range from a lower limit of about 1 m min 10 m min 25 m min 100 m min or 150 m min to an upper limit of about 800 m min 600 m min 500 m min 400 m min 300 m min 200 m min or 150 m min and wherein the feeding rate may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the feeding rate of matrix material to a material path may range from a lower limit of about 1 m min 10 m min 25 m min 100 m min or 150 m min to an upper limit of about 800 m min 600 m min 500 m min 400 m min 300 m min 200 m min or 150 m min in combination with a mold cavity having a diameter ranging from a lower limit of about 0.5 mm 2 mm 3 mm 4 mm 5 mm or 6 mm to an upper limit of about 10 mm 9 mm 8 mm 7 mm or 6 mm and wherein each of the feeding rate and mold cavity diameter may independently range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that the diameter or shape and feeding rate combination achievable may depend on inter alia the size and shape of the particles in the matrix material the other components of the matrix material e.g. additives the matrix material permeability and deaeration constant the distance conveyed e.g. the length of the tubing described further herein the conveying system configuration and the like and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the pneumatic flow may be characterized by a solid to fluid ratio of about 15 or greater. In some embodiments the pneumatic flow may be characterized by a solid to fluid ratio ranging from a lower limit of about 15 20 30 40 or 50 to an upper limit of about 500 400 300 200 150 130 100 or 70 and wherein the solid to fluid ratio may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. The solid to fluid ratio may depend on inter alia the type of pneumatic dense phase feeding where extrusion dense phase feeding occurs typically at higher values.

In some embodiments pneumatic dense phase feeding may involve applying an air pressure from a lower limit of about 1 psig 2 psig 5 psig 10 psig or 25 psig to about 150 psig 125 psig 100 psig 50 psig or 25 psig and wherein the air pressure may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. It should be noted that the air pressure may be applied with a plurality of gases e.g. an inert gas e.g. nitrogen argon helium and the like an oxygenated gas a heated gas a dry gas i.e. less than about 6 ppm water and the like and any combination thereof e.g. a heated dry inert gas like nitrogen or argon . Examples of systems that include pneumatic dense phase feeding are included herein.

As described above some of the organic particles described herein are prone to aggregation. In some embodiments feeding the matrix material to the mold cavity may be performed in a controlled environment e.g. low relative humidity and or at reduced temperatures to reduce the tendency for the organic particle to agglomerate. Further feeding methods may be utilized that break up aggregates and mitigate formation of aggregates e.g. shear mixing auger mixing and the like.

In some embodiments feeding may be indexed to enable the insertion of a spacer material at predetermined intervals. Suitable spacer materials may comprise additives solid barriers e.g. mold cavity parts porous barriers e.g. papers and release wrappers filters cavities and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments feeding may involve shaking and or vibrating. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the degree of shaking and or vibrating that is appropriate e.g. a homogenously distributed matrix material comprising large binder particles and small organic particles may be adversely affected by vibrating i.e. homogeneity may be at least partially lost. Further one skilled in the art should understand the effects of feeding parameters and or feeders on the final properties of the organic porous masses produced e.g. the effects on at least void volume discussed further below encapsulated pressure drop discussed further below and compositional homogeneity.

In some embodiments the matrix material or components thereof may be dried before being introduced into the material path and or while along the material path. Drying may be achieved in some embodiments with heating the matrix material or components thereof blowing dry gas over the matrix material or components thereof and any combination thereof. In some embodiments the matrix material may have a moisture content of about 10 by weight or less about 5 by weight or less or more preferably about 2 by weight or less and in some embodiments as low as 0.01 by weight. Moisture content may be analyzed by known methods that involve freeze drying or weight loss after drying.

Referring now to system may include hopper operably connected to material path to feed the matrix material to material path . System may also include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path to form a wrapper substantially surrounding the matrix material between mold cavity and the matrix material. Further system may include release feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed release wrapper into material path to form a wrapper between paper and mold cavity . In some embodiments release feeder may be configured as conveyor that continuously cycles release wrapper . Heating element is in thermal communication with the matrix material while in mold cavity . Heating element may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length. After the wrapped organic porous mass length exits mold cavity and is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections. In embodiments where release wrapper is not configured as conveyor release wrapper may be removed from the wrapped organic porous mass length before cutting or from the wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections after cutting.

Referring now to system may include component hoppers and that feed components of the matrix material into hopper . The matrix material may be mixed and preheated in hopper with mixer and preheater . Hopper may be operably connected to material path to feed the matrix material to material path . System may also include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path to form a wrapper substantially surrounding the matrix material between mold cavity and the matrix material. Mold cavity may include fluid connection through which heated fluid liquid or gas may pass into material path and mechanically bond the matrix material at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length. It should be noted that fluid connection can be located at any location along mold cavity and that more than one fluid connection may be disposed along mold cavity . After the wrapped organic porous mass length exits mold cavity and is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that preheating can also take place for individual feed components before hopper and or with the mixed components after hopper .

Suitable mixers may include but not be limited to ribbon blenders paddle blenders plow blenders double cone blenders twin shell blenders planetary blenders fluidized blenders high intensity blenders rotating drums blending screws rotary mixers and the like and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments component hoppers may hold individual components of the matrix material e.g. two component hoppers with one holding binder particles and the other holding organic particles. In some embodiments component hoppers may hold mixtures of components of the matrix material e.g. two component hoppers with one holding a mixture of binder particles and organic particles and the other holding an additive like a vitamin. In some embodiments the components within component hoppers may be solids liquids gases or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the components of different component hoppers may be added to the hopper at different rates to achieve a desired blend for the matrix material. By way of nonlimiting example three component hoppers may separately hold organic particles binder particles and dyes or pigments additives described further below in liquid form. Binder particles may be added to the hopper at twice the rate of the organic particles and the dyes or pigments may be sprayed in so as to form at least a partial coating on both the organic particles and the binder particles.

In some embodiments fluid connections to mold cavities may be to pass a fluid into the mold cavity pass a fluid through a mold cavity and or drawing on a mold cavity. As used herein the term drawing refers to creating a negative pressure drop across a boundary and or along a path e.g. sucking. Passing a heated fluid into and or through a mold cavity may assist in mechanically bonding the matrix material therein. Drawing on a mold cavity that has a wrapper disposed therein may assist in lining the mold cavity evenly e.g. with less wrinkles.

Referring now to system may include hopper operably connected to material path to feed the matrix material to material path . Hopper may be configured along material path such that the outlet of hopper or an extension from its outlet is within mold cavity . This may advantageously allow for the matrix material to be fed into mold cavity at a rate to control the packing of the matrix material and consequently the void volume of resultant organic porous masses. In this nonlimiting example mold cavity comprises a thermoelectric material and therefore includes power connection . System may also include release feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed release wrapper into material path to form a wrapper substantially surrounding the matrix material between mold cavity and the matrix material. Mold cavity may be made of a thermoelectric material so that mold cavity may provide the heat to mechanically bond the matrix material at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length. Along material path after mold cavity roller may be operably capable of assisting the movement of the wrapped organic porous mass length through mold cavity . After the wrapped organic porous mass length exits mold cavity and is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections. After cutting the organic porous masses continue along material path on organic porous mass conveyor e.g. for packaging or further processing. Release wrapper may be removed from the wrapped organic porous mass length before cutting or from the wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections after cutting.

Suitable rollers and or substitutes for rollers may include but not be limited to cogs cogwheels wheels belts gears and the like and any combination thereof. Further rollers and the like may be flat toothed beveled and or indented.

Referring now to system may include hopper operably connected to material path to feed the matrix material to material path . Heating element is in thermal communication with the matrix material while in mold cavity . Heating element may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding an organic porous mass length. After the organic porous mass length exits mold cavity die may be used for extruding the organic porous mass length into a desired cross sectional shape. Die may include a plurality of dies e.g. multiple dies or multiple holes within a single die through which the organic porous mass length may be extruded. After the organic porous mass length is extruded through die and suitably cooled cutter cuts the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding organic porous masses and or organic porous mass sections.

Referring now to system may include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path . Hopper or other matrix material delivery apparatus e.g. an auger may be operably connected to material path so as to place matrix material on paper . Paper may wrap around the matrix material at least in part because of passing through mold cavity or compression mold sometimes referred to a garniture device in relation to cigarette filter forming apparatuses which provide the desired cross sectional shape or optional in some embodiments the matrix material may be combined with paper after formation of the desired cross section has begun or is complete . In some embodiments the paper seam may be glued. Heating element or alternatively an electromagnetic radiation source e.g. a microwave source a convection oven a heating block and the like or hybrids thereof is in thermal communication with the matrix material while and or after being in mold cavity . Heating element may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length. After the wrapped organic porous mass length exits mold cavity and is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections. Movement through system may be aided by conveyor with mold cavity being stationary. It should be noted that while not shown a similar embodiment may include paper as part of a looped conveyor that unwraps from the organic porous mass length before cutting which would yield organic porous masses and or organic porous mass sections.

Referring now to system may include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path . Hopper or other matrix material delivery apparatus e.g. an auger may be operably connected to material path so as to place matrix material on paper . Paper may wrap around the matrix material at least in part because of passing through mold cavity e.g. a compression mold sometimes referred to a garniture device in relation to cigarette filter forming apparatuses which provide the desired cross sectional shape or optional in some embodiments the matrix material may be combined with paper after formation of the desired cross section has begun or is complete . In some embodiments the paper seam may be glued.

System may comprise more than one heating element . The first heating element is in thermal communication with the matrix material while and or after being in mold cavity and may cause at least a portion of the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points e.g. form sintered contact points . The organic porous mass length may then be sized to a desired cross sectional shape or size with compression mold e.g. for reshaping the cross sectional shape the wrapped porous mass length and then reheated with a second heating element which may be a heating element similar to that of the first heating element e.g. both microwaves or different e.g. first a microwave and second an oven to form additional mechanical bonding e.g. sintered contact point . Optionally not shown the wrapped organic porous mass length after the second heating element may again be sized to a desired cross sectional shape or size. The resultant wrapped organic porous mass length may then be suitably cooled radially cut with cutter into wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections. Movement through system may be aided by conveyor with mold cavity being stationary.

In some instances depending on the degree of the first sintering or heating step the organic porous mass length may be cooled and cut then reheated. One skilled in the art would recognize how to modify the other systems and methods described herein to provide for two or more sintering or heating steps.

In some embodiments while the matrix material is at an elevated temperature the porous mass or the like may be resized and or reshaped with the application of pressure. Compression molding may consist of a driven or non driven sizing or forming roller a series of rollers or a die or series of dies and any combination thereof suitable for bringing the rod to final shape or dimension. Resizing and or reshaping may be performed after each heating step of the method.

Referring now to system may include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path . As shown mold cavity a cylindrically rolled paper glued at the longitudinal seam may be formed on the fly with forming mold or forming mold sometimes referred to a garniture device including paper tube folders in relation to cigarette filter forming apparatuses causing paper to roll with glue applied with glue application device e.g. a glue gun optionally followed by a glue seam heater not shown . During the formation of mold cavity matrix material may be introduced along material path from hopper . Heating element e.g. a microwave source a convection oven a heating block and the like or hybrids thereof in thermal communication with mold cavity may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length. Then compression mold may be used before complete cooling of the matrix material to size the wrapped organic porous mass length into a desired cross sectional size which may advantageously be used for uniformity in the circumference and shape e.g. ovality of the wrapped organic porous mass. After the wrapped organic porous mass length is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections. Movement through system may be aided by rollers conveyors or the like not shown. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that the processes described may occur in a single apparatus or in multiple apparatus. For example rolling the paper introducing the matrix material exposing to heat e.g. by applying microwaves or heating in a conventional oven and resizing may be performed in a single apparatus and the resultant organic porous mass length may be conveyed to a second apparatus for cutting. System may be oriented in any direction for example vertical or horizontal or anywhere in between.

In some embodiments while the matrix material is at an elevated temperature the organic porous mass or the like may be resized and or reshaped with the application of pressure.

In some embodiments glue or other adhesives used to seal a paper mold cavity or other flexible mold cavity material like plastics may be a cold melt adhesive a hot melt adhesive a pressure sensitive adhesive a curable adhesive and the like. Cold melt adhesives may be preferred so as to mitigate failure of the glue during a subsequent heating process e.g. during sintering .

Referring now to system may include paper feeder operably connected to material path so as to feed paper into material path . As shown mold cavity a cylindrically rolled paper glued at the longitudinal seam may be formed on the fly with forming mold or forming mold sometimes referred to a garniture device including paper tube folders in relation to cigarette filter forming apparatuses causing paper to roll with glue applied with glue application device e.g. a glue gun . During the formation of mold cavity matrix material may be introduced along material path from hopper e.g. a pressurized hopper of a pneumatic dense phase feeder operably connected to tubing by joint which may be a flexible joint. Heating element e.g. a microwave source a convection oven a heating block and the like or hybrids thereof in thermal communication with mold cavity as shown in close proximity to the end of tubing may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding a wrapped organic porous mass length. Then compression mold shown as rollers may be cooled to assist in the cooling of the matrix material while shaping the wrapped organic porous mass length into a desired more uniform circumference and shape e.g. ovality . After the wrapped organic porous mass length is suitably cooled cutter cuts the wrapped organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding wrapped organic porous masses and or wrapped organic porous mass sections.

In some embodiments a mold cavity may be non porous or varying degrees of porosity to allow for removal of fluid from the matrix material. Further the forming mold and or material path may be operably connected to passageways to allow fluid passage from the porous paper in desired orientation. In some instances these fluid passages may be connected to a source below atmospheric pressure. Removal of fluid from the mix may in some embodiments improve system run ability and minimize matrix material particle segregation.

In some embodiments a feeder may include an elongated portion designed to fit into the mold cavity. In some embodiments the outlet of a feeder e.g. the outlet of tubing may be sized to be slightly smaller e.g. about 5 smaller than the inner diameter of the mold cavity. Further the feeder or elongated portion thereof may include a flexible portion that allows the outlet to move within the mold cavity. During pneumatic dense phase feeding such movement may be advantageous by allowing for the outlet to move within the mold cavity. Such movement may advantageously allow the outlet to freely find the center in the mold cavity which may provide for a fit that enhances run ability and minimizes matrix mix segregation. In some embodiments a feeder e.g. the outlet of tubing may terminate before forming mold within forming mold or after forming mold and optionally after a glue seem heater.

Further the outlet may in some embodiments be designed to have a variable cross sectional area which may be advantageous in pneumatic dense phase feeding to aid matrix mix packing density to minimize particle segregation and to allow for varying pressures and flow rates in a single system.

In some embodiments the outlet may be vented with a mesh that does not allow matrix material to flow therethrough but does allow for fluid to pass therethrough. Such ventilation may allow for the pressure to dissipate in a controlled manner over a longer length and mitigate significant particle migration which may lead to matrix material inhomogeneity as the matrix material exits the outlet especially at high flow rates and high pressures.

Referring now to mold cavity of system may be formed from mold cavity parts and operably connected to mold cavity conveyors and respectively. Once mold cavity is formed matrix material may be introduced along material path from hopper . Heating element is in thermal communication with the matrix material while in mold cavity . Heating element may cause the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding an organic porous mass. After mold cavity is suitably cooled and separated into mold cavity parts and the organic porous mass may be removed from mold cavity parts and or and continue along material path via an organic porous mass conveyor . It should be noted that illustrates a nonlimiting example of a noncontiguous material path.

In some embodiments removing organic porous masses from mold cavities and or mold cavity parts may involve pulling mechanisms pushing mechanisms lifting mechanisms gravity any hybrid thereof and any combination thereof. Removing mechanisms may be configured to engage organic porous masses at the ends along the side s and any combination thereof. Suitable pulling mechanisms may include but not be limited to suction cups vacuum components tweezers pincers forceps tongs grippers claws clamps and the like and any combination thereof. Suitable pushing mechanisms may include but not be limited to ejectors punches rods pistons wedges spokes rams pressurized fluids and the like and any combination thereof. Suitable lifting mechanisms may include but not be limited to suction cups vacuum components tweezers pincers forceps tongs grippers claws clamps and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments mold cavities may be configured to operably work with various removal mechanisms. By way of nonlimiting example a hybrid push pull mechanism may include pushing longitudinally with a rod so as to move the organic porous mass partially out the other end of the mold cavity which can then be engaged by forceps to pull the organic porous mass from the mold cavity.

Referring now to mold cavity of system is formed from mold cavity parts and or and operably connected to mold cavity conveyors and respectively. Once mold cavity is formed or during forming sheets of paper are introduced into mold cavity via paper feeder . Then matrix material is introduced into paper from hopper along material path lined mold cavity and mechanically bound into organic porous masses with heat from heating element . After suitable cooling removal of the organic porous masses may be achieved by insertion of ejector into ejector ports and of mold cavity parts and . The organic porous masses may then continue along material path via an organic porous mass conveyor . Again illustrates a nonlimiting example of a noncontiguous material path.

Quality control of organic porous mass production may be assisted with cleaning of mold cavities and or mold cavity parts. Referring again to cleaning instruments may be incorporated into system . As mold cavity parts and return from forming organic porous masses mold cavity parts and pass a series of cleaners including liquid jet and air or gas jet . Similarly in as mold cavity parts and return from forming organic porous masses mold cavity parts and pass a series of cleaners that include heat from heating element and air or gas jet .

Other suitable cleaners may include but not be limited to scrubbers brushes baths showers insert fluid jets tubes that insert into mold cavities capable of jetting fluids radially ultrasonic apparatuses and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments organic porous mass sections organic porous masses and or organic porous mass lengths may comprise cavities. By way of nonlimiting example referring now to mold cavity parts and operably connected to mold cavity conveyors and operably connect to form mold cavity of system . Hopper is operably attached to two volumetric feeders and such that each volumetric feeder and fills mold cavity partially with the matrix material along material path . Between the addition of matrix material from volumetric feeder and volumetric feeder injector places a capsule not shown into mold cavity thereby yielding a capsule surrounded by matrix material. Heating element in thermal contact with mold cavity causes the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding an organic porous mass with a capsule disposed therein. After the organic porous mass is formed and suitably cooled rotary grinder is inserted into mold cavity along the longitudinal direction of mold cavity . Rotary grinder is operably capable of grinding the organic porous mass to a desired length in the longitudinal direction. After mold cavity separates into mold cavity parts and the organic porous mass is removed from mold cavity parts and or and continues along material path via organic porous mass conveyor .

Suitable capsules for use within organic porous masses and the like may include but not be limited to polymeric capsules porous capsules ceramic capsules and the like. Capsules may be filled with an additive e.g. granulated carbon or a flavorant more examples provided below . The capsules in some embodiments may also contain a molecular sieve that reacts with selected components in the smoke to remove or reduce the concentration of the components without adversely affecting desirable flavor constituents of the smoke. In some embodiments the capsules may include tobacco as an additional flavorant. One should note that if the capsule is insufficiently filled with a chosen substance in some filter embodiments this may create a lack of interaction between the components of the mainstream smoke and the substance in the capsules.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that other methods described herein may be altered to produce organic porous masses with capsules therein. In some embodiments more than one capsule may be within an organic porous mass e.g. an organic porous mass length may be produced in a continuous process with a plurality of capsules therein .

In some embodiments the shape e.g. length width diameter and or height of organic porous masses may be adjusted by operations other than cutting including but not limited to sanding milling grinding smoothing polishing rubbing and the like and any combination thereof. Generally these operations will be referred to herein as grinding. Some embodiments may involve grinding the sides and or ends of organic porous masses to achieve smooth surfaces roughened surfaces grooved surfaces patterned surfaces leveled surfaces and any combination thereof. Some embodiments may involve grinding the sides and or ends of organic porous masses to achieve desired dimensions within specification limitations. Some embodiments may involve grinding the sides and or ends of organic porous masses while in or exiting mold cavities after cutting during further processing and any combination thereof. One skilled in the art should understand that dust particles and or pieces may be produced from grinding. As such grinding may involve removing the dust particles and or pieces by methods like vacuuming blowing gases rinsing shaking and the like and any combination thereof.

Any component and or instrument capable of achieving the desired level of grinding may be used in conjunction with systems and methods disclosed herein. Examples of suitable components and or instruments capable of achieving the desired level of grinding may include but not be limited to lathes rotary sanders brushes polishers buffers etchers scribes and the like and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the organic porous mass may be machined to be lighter in weight if desired for example by drilling out a portion of the organic porous mass.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the component and or instrument configurations necessary to engage organic porous masses at various points with the systems described herein. By way of nonlimiting example grinding instruments and or drilling instruments used while organic porous masses are in mold cavities or organic porous mass lengths are leaving mold cavities should be configured so as not to deleteriously affect the mold cavity.

Referring now to hopper is operably attached to chute and feeds the matrix material to material path . Along material path mold cavity is configured to accept ram which is capable of pressing the matrix material in mold cavity . Heating element in thermal communication with the matrix material while in mold cavity causes the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding an organic porous mass length. Inclusion of ram in system may advantageously assist in ensuring the matrix material is properly packed so as to form an organic porous mass length with a desired void volume. Further system comprises cooling area while the organic porous mass length is still contained within mold cavity . In this nonlimiting example cooling is achieved passively.

Referring now to hopper of system operably feeds the matrix material to extruder e.g. screw along material path . Extruder moves matrix material to mold cavity . System also includes heating element in thermal communication with the matrix material while in mold cavity that causes the matrix material to mechanically bond at a plurality of points thereby yielding an organic porous mass length. Further system includes cooling element in thermal communication with organic porous mass length while in mold cavity . Movement of the organic porous mass length out of mold cavity is assisted and or directed by roller .

In some embodiments a control system may interface with components of the systems and or apparatuses disclosed herein. As used herein the term control system refers to a system that can operate to receive and send electronic or pneumatic signals and may include functions of interfacing with a user providing data readouts collecting data storing data changing variable setpoints maintaining setpoints providing notifications of failures and any combination thereof. Suitable control systems may include but are not limited to variable transformers ohmmeters programmable logic controllers digital logic circuits electrical relays computers virtual reality systems distributed control systems and any combination thereof. Suitable system and or apparatus components that may be operably connected to a control system may include but not be limited to hoppers heating elements cooling elements cutters mixers paper feeders release feeders release conveyors cleaning elements rollers mold cavity conveyors conveyors ejectors liquid jets air jets rams chutes extruders injectors matrix material feeders glue feeders grinders and the like and any combination thereof. It should be noted that systems and or apparatuses disclosed herein may have more than one control system that can interface with any number of components.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the interchangeability of the various components of the systems and or apparatuses disclosed herein. By way of nonlimiting example heating elements may be interchanged with electromagnetic radiation sources e.g. a microwave source when the matrix material comprises a component capable of converting electromagnetic radiation to heat e.g. nanoparticles carbon particles and the like . Further by way of nonlimiting example paper wrappers may be interchanged with release wrappers.

In some embodiments organic porous masses may be produced at linear speeds of about 800 m min or less including by methods that involve very slow linear speeds of less than about 1 m min. As used herein the term linear speed refers to the speed along a single production line in contrast to a production speed that may encompass several production lines in parallel which may be along individual apparatuses within a single apparatus or a combination thereof. In some embodiments organic porous masses may be produced by methods described herein at linear speeds that range from a lower limit of about 1 m min 10 m min 50 m min or 100 m min to an upper limit of about 800 m min 600 m min 500 m min 300 m min or 100 m min and wherein the linear speed may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. One skilled in the art would recognized that productivity advancements in machinery may enable linear speeds of greater than 800 m min e.g. 1000 m min or greater . One of ordinary skill in the art should also understand that a single apparatus may include multiple lines e.g. two or more lines of or other lines illustrated herein in parallel so as to increase the overall production rate of organic porous masses and the like e.g. to several thousand m min or greater.

Some embodiments may involve further processing of organic porous masses. Suitable further processing may include but not be limited to doping with an additive grinding drilling out further shaping forming multi segmented filters forming smoking devices packaging shipping and any combination thereof.

Some embodiments may involve doping matrix materials and or organic porous masses with an additive. Nonlimiting examples of additives are provided below. Suitable doping methods may include but not be limited to including the additives in the matrix material by applying the additives to at least a portion of the matrix material before mechanical bonding by applying the additives after mechanical bonding while in the mold cavity by applying the additives after leaving the mold cavity by applying the additives after cutting and any combination thereof. It should be noted that applying includes but is not limited to dipping immersing submerging soaking rinsing washing painting coating showering drizzling spraying placing dusting sprinkling affixing and any combination thereof. Further it should be noted that applying includes but is not limited to surface treatments infusion treatments where the additive incorporates at least partially into a component of the matrix material and any combination thereof. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the concentration of the additive will depend at least on the composition of the additive the size of the additive the purpose of the additive and the point in the process in which the additive is included.

In some embodiments doping with an additive may occur before during and or after mechanically bonding the matrix materials. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that additives which degrade change or are otherwise affected by the mechanical bonding process and associated parameter e.g. elevated temperatures and or pressures should be added after mechanical bonding and or the parameters should be adjusted accordingly e.g. use of inert gases or reduced temperatures . By way of nonlimiting example glass beads may be an additive in the matrix material. Then after mechanical bonding the glass beads may be functionalized with other additives.

Some embodiments may involve grinding organic porous masses after being produced. Grinding includes those methods and apparatuses components described above.

Some embodiments may involve operably connecting organic porous masses including sections thereof to filters and or filter sections e.g. as illustrated in described in more detail herein. Suitable filters and or filter sections may comprise at least one of cellulose cellulosic derivatives cellulose ester tow cellulose acetate tow cellulose acetate tow with less than about 10 denier per filament cellulose acetate tow with about 10 denier per filament or greater random oriented acetates papers corrugated papers polypropylene polyethylene polyolefin tow polypropylene tow polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate coarse powders carbon particles carbon fibers fibers glass beads zeolites molecular sieves a second organic porous mass a porous mass and any combination thereof. Nonlimiting examples of porous masses are described in detail in co pending applications PCT US2011 043264 PCT US2011 043268 PCT US2011 043269 and PCT US2011 043271 all filed on Jul. 7 2012 the entire disclosures of which are included herein by reference. Further porous masses are describe in more detail herein.

In some embodiments organic porous masses and other filter sections may independently have features like a concentric filter design a paper wrapping a cavity a void chamber a baffled void chamber capsules channels and the like and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments organic porous masses and other filter sections may have substantially the same cross sectional shape and or circumference.

In some embodiments a filter section may comprise a space that defines a cavity between two filter sections. The cavity may in some embodiments be filled with an additive e.g. granulated carbon or flavorant e.g. organic particles essential oils and the like . The cavity may in some embodiments contain a capsule e.g. a polymeric capsule that itself contains a catalyst. The cavity in some embodiments may also contain a molecular sieve that reacts with selected components in the smoke to remove or reduce the concentration of the components without adversely affecting desirable flavor constituents of the smoke. In an embodiment the cavity may include tobacco as an additional flavorant. One should note that if the cavity is insufficiently filled with a chosen substance in some embodiments this may create a lack of interaction between the components of the mainstream smoke and the substance in the cavity and in the other filter section s .

In some embodiments filter sections may be combined or joined so as to form a filter or a filter rod. As used herein the term filter rod refers to a length of filter that is suitable for being cut into two or more filters. By way of nonlimiting example the filter rods that comprise an organic porous mass described herein may in some embodiments have lengths ranging from about 80 mm to about 150 mm and may be cut into filters having lengths about 5 to about 35 mm in length during a smoking device tipping operation the addition of a tobacco column to a filter .

Tipping operations may involve combining or joining a filter or filter rod described herein with a tobacco column. During tipping operations the filter rods that comprise an organic porous mass described herein may in some embodiments be first cut into filters or cut into filters during the tipping process. Further in some embodiments tipping methods may further involve combining or joining additional sections that comprise paper and or charcoal to the filter filter rods or tobacco column.

In the production of filters filter rods and or smoking devices some embodiments may involve wrapping a paper about the various components thereof so as to maintain the components in the desired configuration and or contact. For example producing filter and or filter rods may involve wrapping paper about a series of abutting filter sections. In some embodiments organic porous masses wrapped with a paper wrapping may have an additional wrapping disposed thereabout to maintain contact between the organic porous mass and another section of the filter. Suitable papers for producing filters filter rods and or smoking devices may include any paper described herein in relation to wrapping organic porous masses. In some embodiments the papers may comprise additives sizing and or printing agents.

In the production of filters filter rods and or smoking devices some embodiments may involve adhering adjacent components thereof e.g. an organic porous mass to an adjacent filter section tobacco column and the like or any combination thereof . Preferable adhesives may include those that do not impart flavor or aroma under ambient conditions and or under burning conditions. In some embodiments wrapping and adhering may be utilized in the production of filters filter rods and or smoking devices.

Some embodiments of the present invention may involve providing an organic porous mass rod that comprise a plurality of organic particles and binder particles bound together at a plurality of contact points providing a filter rod that does not have the same composition as the organic porous mass rod cutting the organic porous mass rod and the filter rod into organic porous mass sections and filter sections respectively forming a desired abutting configuration that comprises a plurality of sections the plurality of sections comprising at least some of the organic porous mass sections and at least some of the filter sections securing the desired abutting configuration with a paper wrapper and or an adhesive so as to yield a segmented filter rod length cutting the segmented filter rod length into segmented filter rods and wherein the method is performed so as to produce the segmented filter rods at a rate of about 800 m min or less. Some embodiments may further involve forming a smoking device with at least a portion of the segmented filter rod.

As used herein the term abutting configuration refers to a configuration where two filter sections or the like are axially aligned so as to touch one end of the first section to one end of the second section. One skilled in the art would understand that this abutting configuration can be continuous i.e. not never ending rather very long with a large number of sections or short in length with at least two to many sections.

It should be noted that in some method embodiments described herein the term segmented is used for clarity to modify various articles and should be viewed to be encompassed by various embodiments described herein with reference to articles e.g. filters and filter rods comprising organic porous masses.

In some embodiments filters may comprise at least two sections wherein at least one section is an organic porous mass described herein and at least one section is an other filter section. In some embodiments other filter sections may comprise at least one of cellulose cellulosic derivatives cellulose ester tow cellulose acetate tow cellulose acetate tow with less than about 10 denier per filament cellulose acetate tow with about 10 denier per filament or greater random oriented acetates papers corrugated papers polypropylene polyethylene polyolefin tow polypropylene tow polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate coarse powders carbon particles carbon fibers fibers glass beads zeolites molecular sieves porous masses and any combination thereof. Nonlimiting examples of porous masses are described in detail in co pending applications PCT US2011 043264 PCT US2011 043268 PCT US2011 043269 and PCT US2011 043271 all filed on Jul. 7 2012 the entire disclosures of which are included herein by reference. Further porous masses are describe in more detail herein.

In some embodiments filters described herein may have an EPD in ranging from a lower limit of about 0.10 mm of water per mm of length 1 mm of water per mm of length 2 mm of water per mm of length 3 mm of water per mm of length 4 mm of water per mm of length 5 mm of water per mm of length 6 mm of water per mm of length 7 mm of water per mm of length 8 mm of water per mm of length 9 mm of water per mm of length or 10 mm of water per mm of length to an upper limit of about 20 mm of water per mm of length 19 mm of water per mm of length 18 mm of water per mm of length 17 mm of water per mm of length 16 mm of water per mm of length 15 mm of water per mm of length 14 mm of water per mm of length 13 mm of water per mm of length 12 mm of water per mm of length 11 mm of water per mm of length 10 mm of water per mm of length 9 mm of water per mm of length 8 mm of water per mm of length 7 mm of water per mm of length 6 mm of water per mm of length or 5 mm of water per mm of length wherein the EPD may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments the filter may have a structure with a first other filter segment proximal to the mouth end of the smoking device. In some embodiments the filter may comprise two or more sections in any desired order e.g. in order a first other filter section e.g. cellulose acetate tow an organic porous mass and a second other filter section e.g. cellulose acetate tow or in order a first other filter section e.g. cellulose acetate tow a first organic porous mass e.g. comprising tobacco derived organic particles a second organic porous mass e.g. comprising cinnamon organic particles a second other filter section e.g. a porous mass and a third other filter section e.g. cellulose acetate tow . The use of two or more organic porous masses may advantageously allow for the production of organic porous masses with single or a few mixed organic particles and then design of filters with more complex flavor profiles. Further different organic particles may have different production limitations e.g. temperature limits such that organic porous mass production may need to be optimized for different organic particles.

Within a structure the length and composition of individual sections may be chosen to achieve a desired EPD and smoke stream component reduction. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the multitude of structures for the filter described herein. In some instances filters may preferably have cellulose acetate or other traditional filter material segments at both ends i.e. the mouth end and the tobacco end. In some embodiments other filter segments comprising additives designed for enhanced reduction in smoke stream components may be upstream of the organic porous masses i.e. proximal to the tobacco relative to the organic porous masses .

Some embodiments of the present invention may involve providing a plurality of organic porous mass sections that comprise a plurality of organic particles and binder particles bound together at a plurality of contact points providing a plurality of filter sections that do not have the same composition as the organic porous mass sections forming a desired abutting configuration that comprises a plurality of sections the plurality of sections comprising at least one of the organic porous mass sections and at least one of the filter sections securing the desired abutting configuration with a paper wrapper and or adhesive so as to produce a segmented filter or a segmented filter rod length and wherein the method is performed so as to produce the segmented filter or the segmented filter rod at a rate of about 800 m min or less. Some embodiments may further involve forming a smoking device with the segmented filter or at least a portion of the segmented filter rod.

Referring now to a diagram of the process of producing the segmented filters in this example cellulose acetate filter rods were cut into 8 sections about 15 mm each to yield cellulose acetate segments and porous mass rods into 10 segments about 12 mm each to yield porous mass segments . The segments were then aligned end on end in an alternating configuration pushed together and wrapped with paper that was glued at the same line so as to yield a segmented filter length . The segmented filter length was then cut in about the middle of every fourth cellulose acetate segment so as to yield segmented filter rod having portions of a cellulose acetate segment disposed on each end. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure will understand that other sizes and configurations of cellulose acetate segments and porous mass segments may be used to yield the segmented filter lengths and can then be cut at any point to yield a desired segmented filter rod e.g. segmented filter rod .

In some embodiments the foregoing method may be adapted to accommodate three or more filter sections. For example a desired configuration of a filter rod length including first filter sections organic porous mass sections and second filter sections in series such that the rod includes a first first filter section a first organic porous mass section a first second filter section a second organic porous mass section a second first filter section a third organic porous mass section a second second filter section and so on. Such a configuration may be at least one embodiment useful for producing filters that comprise three sections as illustrated in which illustrates a filter rod length being cut into a filter rod that is then cut two additional times so as to yield a filter section comprising three sections.

In some embodiments a capsule may be included so as to be nested between two abutting sections. As used herein the term nested or nesting refers to being inside and not directly exposed to the exterior of the article produced. Accordingly nesting between two abutting sections allows for the adjacent sections to be touching i.e. abutting. In some embodiments a capsule may be in a portion of a filter section or organic porous mass section.

In some embodiments filters described herein may be produced using known instrumentation e.g. greater than about 25 m min in automated instruments and lower for hand production instruments. While the rate of production may be limited by the instrument capabilities only in some embodiments filter sections described herein may be combined to form a filter rod at a rate ranging from a lower limit of about 25 m min 50 m min or 100 m min to an upper limit of about 800 m min 600 m min 400 m min 300 m min or 250 m min and wherein the rate may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompasses any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments organic porous masses utilized in the production of filter and or filter rods described herein may be wrapped with a paper. The paper may in some embodiments reduce damage and particulate production due to the mechanical manipulation of the organic porous masses. Paper suitable for use in conjunction with protecting organic porous masses during manipulation may include but are not limited to wood based papers papers containing flax flax papers cotton paper functionalized papers e.g. those that are functionalized so as to reduce tar and or carbon monoxide special marking papers colorized papers and any combination thereof. In some embodiments the papers may be high porosity corrugated and or have a high surface strength. In some embodiments papers may be substantially non porous less e.g. than about 10 CORESTA units.

In some embodiments the filters and or filter rods comprising organic porous masses described herein may be directly transported to a manufacturing line whereby they will be combined with tobacco columns to form smoking devices. An example of such a method includes a process for producing a smoking device comprising providing a filter rod comprising at least one filter section comprising an organic porous mass described herein that comprises an organic particle and a binder particle providing a tobacco column cutting the filter rod transverse to its longitudinal axis through the center of the rod to form at least two filters having at least one filter section each filter section comprising an organic porous mass that comprises an organic particle and a binder particle and joining at least one of the filters to the tobacco column along the longitudinal axis of the filter and the longitudinal axis of the tobacco column to form at least one smoking device.

In other embodiments the device filters and or filter rods comprising organic porous masses may be placed in a suitable container for storage until further use. Suitable storage containers include those commonly used in the smoking device filter art including but not limited to crates boxes drums bags cartons and the like.

Some embodiments may involve operably connecting smokeable substances to organic porous masses or segmented filters comprising at least one of the foregoing . In some embodiments organic porous masses or segmented filters comprising at least one of the foregoing may be in fluid communication with a smokeable substance. In some embodiments a smoking device may comprise organic porous masses or segmented filters comprising at least one of the foregoing in fluid communication with a smokeable substance. In some embodiments a smoking device may comprise a housing operably capable of maintaining organic porous masses or segmented filters comprising at least one of the foregoing in fluid communication with a smokeable substance. In some embodiments filter rods filters filter sections sectioned filters and or sectioned filter rods may be removable replaceable and or disposable from the housing.

As used herein the term smokeable substance refers to a material capable of producing smoke when burned or heated. Suitable smokeable substances may include but not be limited to tobaccos e.g. bright leaf tobacco Oriental tobacco Turkish tobacco Cavendish tobacco corojo tobacco criollo tobacco Perique tobacco shade tobacco white burley tobacco flue cured tobacco Burley tobacco Maryland tobacco Virginia tobacco teas herbs carbonized or pyrolyzed components inorganic filler components and any combination thereof. Tobacco may have the form of tobacco lamina in cut filler form processed tobacco stems reconstituted tobacco filler volume expanded tobacco filler or the like. Tobacco and other grown smokeable substances may be grown in the United States or may be grown in a jurisdiction outside the United States.

In some embodiments a smokeable substance may be in a column format e.g. a tobacco column. As used herein the term tobacco column refers to the blend of tobacco and optionally other ingredients and flavorants that may be combined to produce a tobacco based smokeable article such as a cigarette or cigar. In some embodiments the tobacco column may comprise ingredients selected from the group consisting of tobacco sugar such as sucrose brown sugar invert sugar or high fructose corn syrup propylene glycol glycerol cocoa cocoa products carob bean gums carob bean extracts and any combination thereof. In still other embodiments the tobacco column may further comprise flavorants aromas menthol licorice extract diammonium phosphate ammonium hydroxide and any combination thereof. In some embodiments tobacco columns may comprise additives. In some embodiments tobacco columns may comprise at least one bendable element.

Suitable housings may include but not be limited to cigarettes cigarette holders cigars cigar holders pipes water pipes hookahs electronic smoking devices roll your own cigarettes roll your own cigars papers and any combination thereof.

Packaging organic porous masses may include but not be limited to placing in trays or boxes or protective containers e.g. trays typically used for packaging and transporting cigarette filter rods.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a pack of filters and or smoking devices with filters that comprise organic porous masses. The pack may be a hinge lid pack a slide and shell pack a hard cup pack a soft cup pack a plastic bag or any other suitable pack container. In some embodiments the packs may have an outer wrapping such as a polypropylene wrapper and optionally a tear tab. In some embodiments the filters and or smoking devices may be sealed as a bundle inside a pack. A bundle may contain a number of filters and or smoking devices for example 20 or more. However a bundle may include a single filter and or smoking device in some embodiments such as exclusive filter and or smoking device embodiments like those for individual sale or a filter and or smoking device comprising a specific spice like vanilla clove or cinnamon.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a carton of smoking device packs that includes at least one pack of smoking devices that includes at least one smoking device with a filter multi segmented or otherwise that comprises organic porous masses. In some embodiments the carton e.g. a container has the physical integrity to contain the weight from the packs of smoking devices. This may be accomplished through thicker cardstock being used to form the carton or stronger adhesives being used to bind elements of the carton.

Some embodiments may involve shipping organic porous masses. Said organic porous masses may be as individuals as at least a portion of filters as at least a portion of smoking devices in packs in carton in trays and any combination thereof. Shipping may be by train truck airplane boat ship and any combination thereof.

Because it is expected that a consumer will smoke a smoking device that includes an organic porous mass as described herein the present invention also provides methods of smoking such a smoking device. For example in one embodiment the present invention provides a method of smoking a smoking device comprising heating or lighting a smoking device to form smoke the smoking device comprising a filter according to any of the embodiments described herein e.g. comprising organic porous masses with organic particles described herein binder particles described herein optionally additives described herein optionally with features described herein and the like comprising filter sections with materials described herein optionally dopants described herein optionally additives described herein optionally with features described herein and the like having an EPD described herein having a structure described herein and the like .

In some embodiments organic particles for use in organic porous masses may be produced by grinding natural compositions. Examples of natural compositions of organic particles may include but are not limited to cloves tobacco coffee beans cocoa cinnamon vanilla tea green tea black tea bay leaves citrus peels e.g. orange lemon lime grapefruit and the like cumin chili peppers chili powder red pepper eucalyptus peppermint curry anise dill fennel allspice basil rosemary pepper caraway seeds cilantro garlic mustard nutmeg thyme turmeric oregano other spices hops other grains sugar and the like and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the increased temperature of the smoke stream may enhance the release of flavorant from the organic particles.

In some embodiments the organic particles may have an average diameter in at least one dimension ranging from a lower limit of about 100 microns 150 microns 200 microns or 250 microns to an upper limit of about 1500 microns 1000 microns 750 microns 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns or 250 microns wherein the average diameter may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the organic particles may be a mixture of particle sizes.

Examples of binder particles may include but are not limited to polyolefins polyesters polyamides or nylons polyacrylics polystyrenes polyvinyls polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE polyether ether ketone PEEK non fibrous plasticized cellulose any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable polyolefins include but are not limited to polyethylene polypropylene polybutylene polymethylpentene any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyethylenes further include low density polyethylene linear low density polyethylene high density polyethylene any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyesters include polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate polycyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate polytrimethylene terephthalate any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyacrylics include but are not limited to polymethyl methacrylate any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polystyrenes include but are not limited to polystyrene acrylonitrile butadiene styrene styrene acrylonitrile styrene butadiene styrene maleic anhydride any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable polyvinyls include but are not limited to ethylene vinyl acetate ethylene vinyl alcohol polyvinyl chloride any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. Examples of suitable cellulosics include but are not limited to cellulose acetate cellulose acetate butyrate plasticized cellulosics cellulose propionate ethyl cellulose any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof any combination thereof and the like. In some embodiments a binder particle may be any copolymer any derivative and any combination of the above listed binders.

In some embodiments the binder particles described herein may have a hydrophilic surface treatment. Hydrophilic surface treatments e.g. oxygenated functionalities like carboxy hydroxyl and epoxy may be achieved by exposure to at least one of chemical oxidizers flames ions plasma corona discharge ultraviolet radiation ozone and combinations thereof e.g. ozone and ultraviolet treatments . Because many of the organic particles and active particles described herein are hydrophilic either as a function of their composition or adsorbed water a hydrophilic surface treatment to the binder particles may increase the attraction e.g. van der Waals electrostatic hydrogen bonding and the like between the binder particles and the organic particles and or active particles. This enhanced attraction may mitigate segregation of organic particles and or active particles from binder particles in the matrix material thereby minimizing variability in the EPD integrity circumference cross sectional shape and other properties of the resultant porous masses. Further it has been observed that the enhanced attraction provides for a more homogeneous matrix material which can increase flexibility for filter design e.g. lowering overall EPD reducing the concentration of the binder particles or both .

The binder particles may assume any shape. Such shapes include spherical hyperion asteroidal chrondular or interplanetary dust like granulated potato irregular and any combination thereof. In preferred embodiments the binder particles suitable for use in the present invention are non fibrous. In some embodiments the binder particles are in the form of a powder pellet or particulate.

In some embodiments the binder particles may have an average diameter in at least one dimension ranging from a lower limit of about 0.1 nm 0.5 nm 1 nm 10 nm 100 nm 500 nm 1 micron 5 microns 10 microns 50 microns 100 microns 150 microns 200 microns or 250 microns to an upper limit of about 5000 microns 2000 microns 1000 microns 900 microns 700 microns 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns 250 microns 200 microns 150 microns 100 microns 50 microns 10 microns or 500 nm wherein the average diameter may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the binder particles may be a mixture of particle sizes.

In some embodiments the binder particles may have a bulk density ranging about 0.10 g cmto about 0.55 g cm including any subset therebetween e.g. about 0.17 g cmto about 0.50 g cmor about 0.20 g cmto about 0.47 g cm .

In some embodiments the binder particles may exhibit virtually no flow at its melting temperature i.e. when heated to its melting temperature exhibits little to no polymer flow. Materials meeting these criteria may include but are not limited to ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE very high molecular weight polyethylene VHMWPE high molecular weight polyethylene HMWPE and any combination thereof. As used herein the term UHMWPE refers to polyethylene compositions with weight average molecular weight of at least about 3 10g mol e.g. about 3 10g mol to about 30 10g mol including any subset therebetween . As used herein the term VHMWPE refers to polyethylene compositions with a weight average molecular weight of less than about 3 10g mol and more than about 1 10g mol including any subset therebetween. As used herein the term HMWPE refers to polyethylene compositions with weight average molecular weight of at least about 3 10g mol to 1 10g mol. For purposes of the present specification the molecular weights referenced herein are determined in accordance with the Margolies equation Margolies molecular weight .

In some embodiments the binder particles may have a melt flow index MFI a measure of polymer flow as measured by ASTM D1238 at 190 C. and 15 kg load ranging from a lower limit of about 0 0.5 1.0 or 2.0 g 10 min to an upper limit of about 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 or 1.0 wherein the MFI may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments organic porous masses may comprise a mixture of binder particles having different molecular weights and or different melt flow indexes.

In some embodiments the binder particles may have an intrinsic viscosity ranging from about 5 dl g to about 30 dl g including any subset therebetween and a degree of crystallinity of about 80 or more e.g. about 80 to about 100 including any subset therebetween as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0090081.

Examples of commercially available polyethylene materials suitable for use as binder particles described herein may include GUR UHMWPE available from Ticona Polymers LLC DSM Braskem Beijing Factory No. 2 Shanghai Chemical Qilu Mitsui and Asahi including GUR 2000 series 2105 2122 2122 5 2126 GUR 4000 series 4120 4130 4150 4170 4012 4122 5 4022 6 4050 3 4150 3 GUR 8000 series 8110 8020 and GUR X series X143 X184 X168 X172 X192 . Another example of a suitable polyethylene material is that having a molecular weight in the range of about 300 000 g mol to about 2 000 000 g mol as determined by ASTM D an average particle size between about 300 microns and about 1500 microns and a bulk density between about 0.25 g ml and about 0.5 g ml.

In some embodiments the binder particles are a combination of various binder particles as distinguished by composition shape size bulk density MFI intrinsic viscosity and the like and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the matrix material or organic porous masses may comprise organic particles in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 wt 5 wt 10 wt 25 wt 40 wt 50 wt 60 wt or 75 wt of the organic porous mass to an upper limit of about 99 wt 95 wt 90 wt or 75 wt of the organic porous mass and wherein the amount of organic particles can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the matrix material or organic porous masses may comprise binder particles in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 wt 5 wt 10 wt or 25 wt of the organic porous mass to an upper limit of about 99 wt 95 wt 90 wt 75 wt 60 wt 50 wt 40 wt or 25 wt of the organic porous mass and wherein the amount of binder particles can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments organic porous masses described herein may further comprise additives. In some embodiments the matrix material or organic porous masses may comprise additives in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 0.01 wt 0.05 wt 0.1 wt 1 wt 5 wt or 10 wt of the matrix material or organic porous masses to an upper limit of about 25 wt 15 wt 10 wt 5 wt or 1 wt of the matrix material or organic porous masses and wherein the amount of additives can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

Suitable additives may include but not be limited to active particles active compounds ionic resins zeolites nanoparticles microwave enhancement additives ceramic particles glass beads softening agents plasticizers pigments dyes controlled release vesicles adhesives tackifiers surface modification agents vitamins peroxides biocides antifungals antimicrobials antistatic agents flame retardants degradation agents and any combination thereof which are described in more detail herein. One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that additives should minimally to not affect the function of the organic particles e.g. porous additives that adsorb the flavorant from the organic particles.

In some embodiments organic porous masses described herein may have an EPD in ranging from a lower limit of about 0.10 mm of water per mm of length 1 mm of water per mm of length 2 mm of water per mm of length 3 mm of water per mm of length 4 mm of water per mm of length 5 mm of water per mm of length 6 mm of water per mm of length 7 mm of water per mm of length 8 mm of water per mm of length 9 mm of water per mm of length or 10 mm of water per mm of length to an upper limit of about 20 mm of water per mm of length 19 mm of water per mm of length 18 mm of water per mm of length 17 mm of water per mm of length 16 mm of water per mm of length 15 mm of water per mm of length 14 mm of water per mm of length 13 mm of water per mm of length 12 mm of water per mm of length 11 mm of water per mm of length 10 mm of water per mm of length 9 mm of water per mm of length 8 mm of water per mm of length 7 mm of water per mm of length 6 mm of water per mm of length or 5 mm of water per mm of length wherein the EPD may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments organic porous masses described herein may have an organic particle loading of at least about 1 mg mm 2 mg mm 3 mg mm 4 mg mm 5 mg mm 6 mg mm 7 mg mm 8 mg mm 9 mg mm 10 mg mm 11 mg mm 12 mg mm 13 mg mm 14 mg mm 15 mg mm 16 mg mm 17 mg mm 18 mg mm 19 mg mm 20 mg mm 21 mg mm 22 mg mm 23 mg mm 24 mg mm or 25 mg mm in combination with an EPD of less than about 20 mm of water or less per mm of length 19 mm of water or less per mm of length 18 mm of water or less per mm of length 17 mm of water or less per mm of length 16 mm of water or less per mm of length 15 mm of water or less per mm of length 14 mm of water or less per mm of length 13 mm of water or less per mm of length 12 mm of water or less per mm of length 11 mm of water or less per mm of length 10 mm of water or less per mm of length 9 mm of water or less per mm of length 8 mm of water or less per mm of length 7 mm of water or less per mm of length 6 mm of water or less per mm of length 5 mm of water or less per mm of length 4 mm of water or less per mm of length 3 mm of water or less per mm of length 2 mm of water or less per mm of length or 1 mm of water or less per mm of length and wherein the organic particle loading and the EPD may independently range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments organic porous masses described herein may have a length from a lower limit of about 5 mm 10 mm 25 mm or 50 mm to an upper limit of about 150 mm 100 mm 50 mm or 25 mm and wherein the links may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments organic porous masses described herein may further comprise a wrapper disposed about the organic porous masses. Suitable wrappers may include but not be limited to papers e.g. wood based papers papers containing flax flax papers papers produced from other natural or synthetic fibers functionalized papers special marking papers colorized papers plastics e.g. fluorinated polymers like polytetrafluoroethylene silicone films coated papers coated plastics coated films and the like and any combination thereof. In some embodiments wrappers may be papers suitable for use in smoking device filters.

In some embodiments organic porous masses described herein may be any cross sectional shape including but not limited to circular substantially circular ovular substantially ovular polygonal like triangular square rectangular pentagonal and so on polygonal with rounded edges and the like or any hybrid thereof.

The circumference of organic porous masses described herein may range from a lower limit of about 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm 12 mm 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm 16 mm 17 mm 18 mm 19 mm 20 mm 21 mm 22 mm 23 mm 24 mm 25 mm or 26 mm to an upper limit of about 60 mm 50 mm 40 mm 30 mm 20 mm 29 mm 28 mm 27 mm 26 mm 25 mm 24 mm 23 mm 22 mm 21 mm 20 mm 19 mm 18 mm 17 mm or 16 mm wherein the circumference may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In embodiments where an organic porous mass of the present invention is in a shape other than a true cylinder it should be understood that the term circumference is used to mean the perimeter of any shaped cross section including a circular cross section.

In some embodiments organic porous masses may comprise at least one type of organic particles e.g. organic particles having a composition described herein a size described herein a shape described herein or a combination thereof in an amount described herein at least one type of binder particles e.g. binder particles having a composition described herein a size described herein a shape described herein a bulk density described herein an MFI described herein an intrinsic viscosity described herein or a combination thereof in an amount described herein and optionally at least one type of the additives described herein in an amount described herein. In some embodiments organic porous masses may have at least one characteristic of an EPD described herein a length described herein a cross sectional shape described herein a circumference described herein a wrapper described herein or a combination thereof.

Porous masses generally comprise a plurality of binder particles e.g. the binder particles described herein relative to organic porous masses and a plurality of active particles e.g. carbon particles or zeolites described herein mechanically bound at a plurality of contact points. The contact points may be active particle binder contact points binder binder contact points active particle active particle contact points and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the porous masses may comprise active particles in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 wt 5 wt 10 wt 25 wt 40 wt 50 wt 60 wt or 75 wt of the porous mass to an upper limit of about 99 wt 95 wt 90 wt or 75 wt of the porous mass and wherein the amount of active particles can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the porous masses may comprise binder particles in an amount ranging from a lower limit of about 1 wt 5 wt 10 wt or 25 wt of the porous mass to an upper limit of about 99 wt 95 wt 90 wt 75 wt 60 wt 50 wt 40 wt or 25 wt of the porous mass and wherein the amount of binder particles can range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

While the ratio of binder particle size to active particle size can include any iteration as dictated by the size ranges for each described herein specific size ratios may be advantageous for specific applications and or products. By way of nonlimiting example in smoking device filters the sizes of the active particles and binder particles should be such that the EPD allows for drawing fluids through the porous mass. In some embodiments the ratio of binder particle size to active particle size may range from about 10 1 to about 1 10 or more preferably range from about 1 1.5 to about 1 4.

In some embodiments porous masses may have a void volume in the range of about 40 to about 90 . In some embodiments porous masses may have a void volume of about 60 to about 90 . In some embodiments porous masses may have a void volume of about 60 to about 85 . Void volume is the free space left after accounting for the space taken by the active particles.

To determine void volume although not wishing to be limited by any particular theory it is believed that testing indicates that the final density of the mixture was driven almost entirely by the active particle thus the space occupied by the binder particles was not considered for this calculation. Thus void volume in this context is calculated based on the space remaining after accounting for the active particles. To determine void volume first the upper and lower diameters based on the mesh size were averaged for the active particles and then the volume was calculated assuming a spherical shape based on that averaged diameter using the density of the active material. Then the percentage void volume is calculated as follows 

In some embodiments porous masses may have an encapsulated pressure drop EPD in the range of about 0.10 to about 25 mm of water per mm length of porous mass. In some embodiments porous masses may have an EPD in the range of about 0.10 to about 10 mm of water per mm length of porous mass. In some embodiments porous masses may have an EPD of about 2 mm of water per mm length to about 7 mm of water per mm length of porous mass or no greater than 7 mm of water per mm length of porous mass .

In some embodiments porous masses may have an active particle loading of at least about 1 mg mm 2 mg mm 3 mg mm 4 mg mm 5 mg mm 6 mg mm 7 mg mm 8 mg mm 9 mg mm 10 mg mm 11 mg mm 12 mg mm 13 mg mm 14 mg mm 15 mg mm 16 mg mm 17 mg mm 18 mg mm 19 mg mm 20 mg mm 21 mg mm 22 mg mm 23 mg mm 24 mg mm or 25 mg mm in combination with an EPD of less than about 20 mm of water or less per mm of length 19 mm of water or less per mm of length 18 mm of water or less per mm of length 17 mm of water or less per mm of length 16 mm of water or less per mm of length 15 mm of water or less per mm of length 14 mm of water or less per mm of length 13 mm of water or less per mm of length 12 mm of water or less per mm of length 11 mm of water or less per mm of length 10 mm of water or less per mm of length 9 mm of water or less per mm of length 8 mm of water or less per mm of length 7 mm of water or less per mm of length 6 mm of water or less per mm of length 5 mm of water or less per mm of length 4 mm of water or less per mm of length 3 mm of water or less per mm of length 2 mm of water or less per mm of length or 1 mm of water or less per mm of length and wherein the active particle loading and the EPD may independently range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

By way of example in some embodiments porous masses may have an active particle loading of at least about 1 mg mm and an EPD of about 20 mm of water or less per mm of length. In other embodiments the porous mass may have an active particle loading of at least about 1 mg mm and an EPD of about 20 mm of water or less per mm of length wherein the active particle is not carbon. In other embodiments the porous mass may have an active particle comprising carbon with a loading of at least 6 mg mm in combination with an EPD of 10 mm of water or less per mm of length.

In some embodiments porous masses may further comprise additives. Suitable additives for use in conjunction with porous masses may include but not be limited to active compounds ionic resins zeolites nanoparticles microwave enhancement additives ceramic particles glass beads softening agents plasticizers pigments dyes flavorants aromas controlled release vesicles adhesives tackifiers surface modification agents vitamins peroxides biocides antifungals antimicrobials antistatic agents flame retardants degradation agents and any combination thereof.

One example of an active particle is activated carbon or activated charcoal or active coal . The activated carbon may be low activity about 50 to about 75 CCladsorption or high activity about 75 to about 95 CCladsorption or a combination of both. In some embodiments the active carbon may be nano scaled carbon particle such as carbon nanotubes of any number of walls carbon nanohorns bamboo like carbon nanostructures fullerenes and fullerene aggregates and graphene including few layer graphene and oxidized graphene. Other examples of active particles may include but are not limited to ion exchange resins desiccants silicates molecular sieves silica gels activated alumina zeolites perlite sepiolite Fuller s Earth magnesium silicate metal oxides e.g. iron oxide iron oxide nanoparticles like about 12 nm FeO manganese oxide copper oxide and aluminum oxide gold platinum iodine pentoxide phosphorous pentoxide nanoparticles e.g. metal nanoparticles like gold and silver metal oxide nanoparticles like alumina magnetic paramagnetic and superparamagnetic nanoparticles like gadolinium oxide various crystal structures of iron oxide like hematite and magnetite gado nanotubes and endofullerenes like Gd C and core shell and onionated nanoparticles like gold and silver nanoshells onionated iron oxide and other nanoparticles or microparticles with an outer shell of any of said materials and any combination of the foregoing including activated carbon . Ion exchange resins include for example a polymer with a backbone such as styrene divinyl benzene DVB copolymer acrylates methacrylates phenol formaldehyde condensates and epichlorohydrin amine condensates and a plurality of electrically charged functional groups attached to the polymer backbone. In some embodiments the active particles are a combination of various active particles. In some embodiments the organic porous mass may comprise multiple active particles. In some embodiments an active particle may comprise at least one element selected from the group of active particles disclosed herein. It should be noted that element is being used as a general term to describe items in a list. In some embodiments the active particles are combined with at least one flavorant.

In some embodiments the active particles may have an average diameter in at least one dimension ranging from a lower limit of about less than one nanometer e.g. graphene about 0.1 nm 0.5 nm 1 nm 10 nm 100 nm 500 nm 1 micron 5 microns 10 microns 50 microns 100 microns 150 microns 200 microns and 250 microns to an upper limit of about 5000 microns 2000 microns 1000 microns 900 microns 700 microns 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns 250 microns 200 microns 150 microns 100 microns 50 microns 10 microns and 500 nm wherein the average diameter may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments the active particles may be a mixture of particle sizes.

The active particles may in some embodiments remove reduce or add components to a smoke stream and may in some embodiments be selective. Smoke stream components may include but not be limited to acetaldehyde acetamide acetone acrolein acrylamide acrylonitrile aflatoxin B 1 4 aminobiphenyl 1 aminonaphthalene 2 aminonaphthalene ammonia ammonium salts anabasine anatabine 0 anisidine arsenic A C benz a anthracene benz b fluoroanthene benz j aceanthrylene benz k fluoroanthene benzene benzo b furan benzo a pyrene benzo c phenanthrene beryllium 1 3 butadiene butyraldehyde cadmium caffeic acid carbon monoxide catechol chlorinated dioxins furans chromium chrysene cobalt coumarin a cresol crotonaldehyde cyclopenta c d pyrene dibenz a h acridine dibenz a j acridine dibenz a h anthracene dibenzo c g carbazole dibenzo a e pyrene dibenzo a h pyrene dibenzo a i pyrene dibenzo a l pyrene 2 6 dimethylaniline ethyl carbamate urethane ethylbenzene ethylene oxide eugenol formaldehyde furan glu P 1 glu P 2 hydrazine hydrogen cyanide hydroquinone indeno 1 2 3 cd pyrene IQ isoprene lead MeA C mercury methyl ethyl ketone 5 methylchrysene 4 methylnitrosamino 1 3 pyridyl 1 butanone NNK 4 methylnitrosamino 1 3 pyridyl 1 butanol NNAL naphthalene nickel nicotine nitrate nitric oxide a nitrogen oxide nitrite nitrobenzene nitromethane 2 nitropropane N nitrosoanabasine NAB N nitrosodiethanolamine NDELA N nitrosodiethylamine N nitrosodimethylamine NDMA N nitrosoethylmethylamine N nitrosomorpholine NMOR N nitrosonornicotine NNN N nitrosopiperidine NPIP N nitrosopyrrolidine NPYR N nitrososarcosine NSAR phenol PhIP polonium 210 radio isotope propionaldehyde propylene oxide pyridine quinoline resorcinol selenium styrene tar 2 toluidine toluene Trp P 1 Trp P 2 uranium 235 radio isotope uranium 238 radio isotope vinyl acetate vinyl chloride and any combination thereof.

Suitable ionic resins may include but not be limited to polymers with a backbone such as styrene divinyl benzene DVB copolymer acrylates methacrylates phenol formaldehyde condensates and epichlorohydrin amine condensates a plurality of electrically charged functional groups attached to the polymer backbone and any combination thereof.

Zeolites may include crystalline aluminosilicates having pores e.g. channels or cavities of uniform molecular sized dimensions. Zeolites may include natural and synthetic materials. Suitable zeolites may include but not be limited to zeolite BETA Na AlSiO tetragonal zeolite ZSM 5 Na AlSiO 16HO with n

Suitable nanoparticles may include but not be limited to nano scaled carbon particles like carbon nanotubes of any number of walls carbon nanohorns bamboo like carbon nanostructures fullerenes and fullerene aggregates and graphene including few layer graphene and oxidized graphene metal nanoparticles like gold and silver metal oxide nanoparticles like alumina silica and titania magnetic paramagnetic and superparamagnetic nanoparticles like gadolinium oxide various crystal structures of iron oxide like hematite and magnetite about 12 nm FeO gado nanotubes and endofullerenes like Gd C and core shell and onionated nanoparticles like gold and silver nanoshells onionated iron oxide and other nanoparticles or microparticles with an outer shell of any of said materials and any combination of the foregoing including activated carbon . It should be noted that nanoparticles may include nanorods nanospheres nanorices nanowires nanostars like nanotripods and nanotetrapods hollow nanostructures hybrid nanostructures that are two or more nanoparticles connected as one and non nano particles with nano coatings or nano thick walls. It should be further noted that nanoparticles may include the functionalized derivatives of nanoparticles including but not limited to nanoparticles that have been functionalized covalently and or non covalently e.g. pi stacking physisorption ionic association van der Waals association and the like. Suitable functional groups may include but not be limited to moieties comprising amines 1 2 or 3 amides carboxylic acids aldehydes ketones ethers esters peroxides silyls organosilanes hydrocarbons aromatic hydrocarbons and any combination thereof polymers chelating agents like ethylenediamine tetraacetate diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid triglycollamic acid and a structure comprising a pyrrole ring and any combination thereof. Functional groups may enhance incorporation of nanoparticles into an organic porous mass.

Suitable microwave enhancement additives may include but not be limited to microwave responsive polymers carbon particles fullerenes carbon nanotubes metal nanoparticles water and the like and any combination thereof.

Suitable ceramic particles may include but not be limited to oxides e.g. silica titania alumina beryllia ceria and zirconia nonoxides e.g. carbides borides nitrides and silicides composites thereof and any combination thereof. Ceramic particles may be crystalline non crystalline or semi crystalline.

As used herein pigments refer to compounds and or particles that impart color and are incorporated throughout the matrix material and or a component thereof. Suitable pigments may include but not be limited to titanium dioxide silicon dioxide tartrazine E102 phthalocyanine blue phthalocyanine green quinacridones perylene tetracarboxylic acid di imides dioxazines perinones disazo pigments anthraquinone pigments carbon black titanium dioxide metal powders iron oxide ultramarine and any combination thereof.

As used herein dyes refer to compounds and or particles that impart color and are a surface treatment. Suitable dyes may include but not be limited to CARTASOL dyes cationic dyes available from Clariant Services in liquid and or granular form e.g. CARTASOL Brilliant Yellow K 6G liquid CARTASOL Yellow K 4GL liquid CARTASOL Yellow K GL liquid CARTASOL Orange K 3GL liquid CARTASOL Scarlet K 2GL liquid CARTASOL Red K 3BN liquid CARTASOL Blue K 5R liquid CARTASOL Blue K RL liquid CARTASOL Turquoise K RL liquid granules CARTASOL Brown K BL liquid FASTUSOL dyes an auxochrome available from BASF e.g. Yellow 3GL Fastusol C Blue 74L .

Suitable tackifiers may include but not be limited to methylcellulose ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose carboxy methylcellulose carboxy ethylcellulose water soluble cellulose acetate amides diamines polyesters polycarbonates silyl modified polyamide compounds polycarbamates urethanes natural resins shellacs acrylic acid polymers 2 ethylhexylacrylate acrylic acid ester polymers acrylic acid derivative polymers acrylic acid homopolymers anacrylic acid ester homopolymers poly methyl acrylate poly butyl acrylate poly 2 ethylhexyl acrylate acrylic acid ester co polymers methacrylic acid derivative polymers methacrylic acid homopolymers methacrylic acid ester homopolymers poly methyl methacrylate poly butyl methacrylate poly 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate polymers acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate derivative polymers acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate co polymers acrylic acid acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate co polymers benzyl coco di hydroxyethyl quaternary amines p T amyl phenols condensed with formaldehyde dialkyl amino alkyl meth acrylates acrylamides N dialkyl amino alkyl acrylamide methacrylamides hydroxy alkyl meth acrylates methacrylic acids acrylic acids hydroxyethyl acrylates and the like any derivative thereof and any combination thereof.

Suitable vitamins may include but not be limited to vitamin A vitamin B1 vitamin B2 vitamin C vitamin D vitamin E and any combination thereof.

Suitable antimicrobials may include but not be limited to anti microbial metal ions chlorhexidine chlorhexidine salt triclosan polymoxin tetracycline amino glycoside e.g. gentamicin rifampicin bacitracin erythromycin neomycin chloramphenicol miconazole quinolone penicillin nonoxynol 9 fusidic acid cephalosporin mupirocin metronidazolea secropin protegrin bacteriolcin defensin nitrofurazone mafenide acyclovir vanocmycin clindamycin lincomycin sulfonamide norfloxacin pefloxacin nalidizic acid oxalic acid enoxacin acid ciprofloxacin polyhexamethylene biguanide PHMB PHMB derivatives e.g. biodegradable biguanides like polyethylene hexamethylene biguanide PEHMB clilorhexidine gluconate chlorohexidine hydrochloride ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA EDTA derivatives e.g. disodium EDTA or tetrasodium EDTA the like and any combination thereof.

Antistatic agents may in some embodiments comprise any suitable anionic cationic amphoteric or nonionic antistatic agent. Anionic antistatic agents may generally include but not be limited to alkali sulfates alkali phosphates phosphate esters of alcohols phosphate esters of ethoxylated alcohols and any combination thereof. Examples may include but not be limited to alkali neutralized phosphate ester e.g. TRYFAC 5559 or TRYFRAC 5576 available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. . Cationic antistatic agents may generally include but not be limited to quaternary ammonium salts and imidazolines which possess a positive charge. Examples of nonionics include the poly oxyalkylene derivatives e.g. ethoxylated fatty acids like EMEREST 2650 an ethoxylated fatty acid available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. ethoxylated fatty alcohols like TRYCOL 5964 an ethoxylated lauryl alcohol available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. ethoxylated fatty amines like TRYMEEN 6606 an ethoxylated tallow amine available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. alkanolamides like EMID 6545 an oleic diethanolamine available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. and any combination thereof. Anionic and cationic materials tend to be more effective antistatic agents.

It should be noted that while organic porous masses discussed herein are primarily for smoking device filters they may be used as fluid filters or parts thereof in other applications including but not limited to liquid filtration air filters in motorized vehicles air filters in medical devices air filters for household use and the like. One skilled in the arts with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the necessary modification and or limitations to adapt this disclosure for other filtration applications e.g. size shape size ratio of organic and binder particles and composition of the organic porous masses. By way of nonlimiting example organic porous masses may be formed into other shapes like hollow cylinders for a concentric water filter configuration or pleated sheets for an air filter.

A a method that includes introducing a matrix material into a mold cavity the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles a plurality of organic particles and a microwave enhancement additive heating at least a portion of the matrix material so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass length wherein heating involves irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding an organic porous mass 

B a method that includes introducing a matrix material into a mold cavity the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles a plurality of organic particles and a microwave enhancement additive heating at least a portion of the matrix material in an oxygen lean atmosphere so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass length wherein heating involves irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding an organic porous mass and

C a method that includes introducing a matrix material into a mold cavity the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles a plurality of organic particles and a microwave enhancement additive heating at least a portion of the matrix material in an increased air pressure atmosphere so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass length wherein heating involves irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding an organic porous mass.

Each of embodiments A B and C may have one or more of the following additional elements in any combination Element 1 introducing includes pneumatic dense phase feeding occurring at a feeding rate of about 1 m min to about 800 m min Element 2 introducing includes pneumatic dense phase feeding occurring at a feeding rate of about 1 m min to about 800 m min and the mold cavity has a diameter of about 3 mm to about 10 mm Element 3 preheating the matrix material before introducing Element 4 heating further involving radiant heating Element 5 the mold cavity being at least partially formed by a paper wrapper Element 6 the organic porous mass having an EPD of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 25 mm of water per mm of length Element 7 the organic porous mass having an EPD of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 20 mm of water per mm of length and the porous mass comprising the organic particles at about 1 mg mm to about 20 mg mm Element 8 the natural material comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of cloves tobacco coffee beans cocoa cinnamon vanilla tea green tea black tea bay leaves citrus peels orange lemon lime grapefruit cumin chili peppers chili powder red pepper eucalyptus peppermint curry anise dill fennel allspice basil rosemary pepper caraway seeds cilantro garlic mustard nutmeg thyme turmeric oregano other spices hops other grains sugar and any combination thereof Element 9 the organic particles having an average diameter of about 100 microns to about 1500 microns Element 10 the binder particles comprising polyethylene Element 11 the binder particles comprising UHMWPE Element 12 the binder particles comprising VHMWPE Element 13 the binder particles comprising HMWPE and Element 14 the organic porous mass comprising at least one additive described herein.

By way of non limiting examples exemplary combinations independently applicable to A B and C include Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Element 2 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Element 3 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Elements 1 and 3 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Elements 2 and 3 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Elements 1 and 4 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Elements 2 and 4 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 5 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 6 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 7 and so on.

D a method that includes continuously introducing a matrix material into a mold cavity the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of organic particles disposing a release wrapper as a liner of the mold cavity heating at least a portion of the matrix material so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass length and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding an organic porous mass 

E a method that includes introducing a matrix material into a plurality of mold cavities the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of organic particles and heating the matrix material in the mold cavities so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass and

F a method that includes continuously combining a matrix material and a paper wrapper to form a desired cross sectional shape where the matrix material is confined by the paper wrapper the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of organic particles heating at least a portion of the matrix material so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass length wherein heating involves irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material cooling the organic porous mass length and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby producing an organic porous mass.

Each of embodiments D E and F may have one or more of the following additional elements in any combination Element 1 introducing includes pneumatic dense phase feeding occurring at a feeding rate of about 1 m min to about 800 m min Element 2 introducing includes pneumatic dense phase feeding occurring at a feeding rate of about 1 m min to about 800 m min and the mold cavity has a diameter of about 3 mm to about 10 mm Element 3 heating involving irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material Element 4 heating involving radiant heating Element 5 heating occurring in an oxygen lean atmosphere Element 6 heating occurring in an increased air pressure atmosphere Element 7 the mold cavity being at least partially formed by a paper wrapper Element 8 the organic porous mass having an EPD of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 25 mm of water per mm of length Element 9 the organic porous mass having an EPD of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 20 mm of water per mm of length and the porous mass comprising the organic particles at about 1 mg mm to about 20 mg mm Element 10 the natural material comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of cloves tobacco coffee beans cocoa cinnamon vanilla tea green tea black tea bay leaves citrus peels orange lemon lime grapefruit cumin chili peppers chili powder red pepper eucalyptus peppermint curry anise dill fennel allspice basil rosemary pepper caraway seeds cilantro garlic mustard nutmeg thyme turmeric oregano other spices hops other grains sugar and any combination thereof Element 11 the organic particles having an average diameter of about 100 microns to about 1500 microns Element 12 the binder particles comprising polyethylene Element 13 the binder particles comprising UHMWPE Element 14 the binder particles comprising VHMWPE Element 15 the binder particles comprising HMWPE and Element 16 the organic porous mass comprising at least one additive described herein.

By way of non limiting examples exemplary combinations independently applicable to D E and F include Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Element 2 in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Element 3 in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 1 and 3 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 2 and 3 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 1 and 4 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 2 and 4 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 5 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 6 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 5 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 8 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 9 and so on.

G an organic porous mass including a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of organic particles derived from a natural material wherein the organic particles and the binder particles are bound together at a plurality of contact points 

H a filter including an organic porous mass that includes a plurality of organic particles derived from a natural material and a plurality of binder particles wherein the organic particles and the binder particles are bound together at a plurality of contact points and

I a smoking device including a filter with an organic porous mass that includes a plurality of binder particles and a plurality of organic particles derived from a natural material wherein the organic particles and the binder particles are bound together at a plurality of contact points.

Each of embodiments G H and I may have one or more of the following additional elements in any combination Element 1 the natural material comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of cloves tobacco coffee beans cocoa cinnamon vanilla tea green tea black tea bay leaves citrus peels orange lemon lime grapefruit cumin chili peppers chili powder red pepper eucalyptus peppermint curry anise dill fennel allspice basil rosemary pepper caraway seeds cilantro garlic mustard nutmeg thyme turmeric oregano other spices hops other grains sugar and any combination thereof Element 2 the organic porous mass has an encapsulated pressure drop of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 20 mm of water per mm of length Element 3 the organic particles having an average diameter of about 100 microns to about 1500 microns Element 4 the binder particles comprising polyethylene Element 5 the binder particles comprising UHMWPE Element 6 the binder particles comprising VHMWPE Element 7 the binder particles comprising HMWPE Element 8 the organic porous mass comprising at least one additive described herein Element 9 other filter section where provided for comprising at least one selected from the group consisting of cellulose a cellulosic derivative a cellulose ester tow a cellulose acetate tow a cellulose acetate tow with less than about 10 denier per filament a cellulose acetate tow with about 10 denier per filament or greater a random oriented acetate a paper a corrugated paper polypropylene polyethylene a polyolefin tow a polypropylene tow polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate a coarse powder a carbon particle a carbon fiber a fiber a glass bead a zeolite a molecular sieve a porous mass and any combination thereof and Element 10 the filter where provided for having an encapsulated pressure drop of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 20 mm of water per mm of length.

By way of non limiting examples exemplary combinations independently applicable to G H and I include Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 2 8 Element 1 in combination with Elements 2 and 3 Elements 1 3 in combination with at least one of Elements 4 8 and so on. By way of non limiting example exemplary combinations independently applicable to B and C include Element 9 in combination with the foregoing combinations and Element 10 in combination with the foregoing combinations.

J a method that includes grinding a natural material into a plurality of organic particles introducing a matrix material into a mold cavity the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and the organic particles heating at least a portion of the matrix material so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass length and cutting the organic porous mass length radially thereby yielding an organic porous mass and

K a method that includes grinding a natural material into a plurality of organic particles sizing the organic particles introducing a matrix material into a plurality of mold cavities the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and the organic particles and heating the matrix material in the mold cavities so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass 

L a method that includes grinding a natural material into a plurality of organic particles drying the organic particles introducing a matrix material into a plurality of mold cavities the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and the organic particles and heating the matrix material in the mold cavities so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass and

M a method that includes grinding a natural material into a plurality of organic particles drying at least some of the organic particles sizing the organic particles introducing a matrix material into a plurality of mold cavities the matrix material comprising a plurality of binder particles and the organic particles and heating the matrix material in the mold cavities so as to bind the matrix material at a plurality of contact points thereby forming an organic porous mass.

Each of embodiments J K L and M may have one or more of the following additional elements in any combination Element 1 introducing includes pneumatic dense phase feeding occurring at a feeding rate of about 1 m min to about 800 m min Element 2 introducing includes pneumatic dense phase feeding occurring at a feeding rate of about 1 m min to about 800 m min and the mold cavity has a diameter of about 3 mm to about 10 mm Element 3 heating involving irradiating with microwave radiation the at least a portion of the matrix material Element 4 heating involving radiant heating Element 5 heating occurring in an oxygen lean atmosphere Element 6 heating occurring in an increased air pressure atmosphere Element 7 the mold cavity being at least partially formed by a paper wrapper Element 8 the organic porous mass having an EPD of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 25 mm of water per mm of length Element 9 the organic porous mass having an EPD of about 0.1 mm of water per mm of length to about 20 mm of water per mm of length and the porous mass comprising the organic particles at about 1 mg mm to about 20 mg mm Element 10 the natural material comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of cloves tobacco coffee beans cocoa cinnamon vanilla tea green tea black tea bay leaves citrus peels orange lemon lime grapefruit cumin chili peppers chili powder red pepper eucalyptus peppermint curry anise dill fennel allspice basil rosemary pepper caraway seeds cilantro garlic mustard nutmeg thyme turmeric oregano other spices hops other grains sugar and any combination thereof Element 11 the organic particles having an average diameter of about 100 microns to about 1500 microns Element 12 the binder particles comprising polyethylene Element 13 the binder particles comprising UHMWPE Element 14 the binder particles comprising VHMWPE Element 15 the binder particles comprising HMWPE and Element 16 the organic porous mass comprising at least one additive described herein.

By way of non limiting examples exemplary combinations independently applicable to J K L and M include Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Element 2 in combination with at least one of Elements 8 14 Element 1 in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Element 3 in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 1 and 3 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 2 and 3 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 1 and 4 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 Elements 2 and 4 optionally in combination with at least one of Elements 10 16 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 5 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 6 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 7 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 8 any of the foregoing in combination with Element 9 and so on.

To facilitate a better understanding of the present invention the following examples of preferred or representative embodiments are given. In no way should the following examples be read to limit or to define the scope of the invention.

UHMWPE binder particles about 125 micron average diameter and clove organic particles about 1.0 mm to about 2.0 mm average diameter were mixed placed in a mold having a diameter and cross sectional shape consistent with a cellulose acetate cigarette filter and heated to about 135 C. for 30 minutes thereby yielding a clove porous mass. The clove porous mass was cut into segments of 5 mm 10 mm and 15 mm in length. The clove porous mass segments were combined with cellulose acetate cigarette filter segments to yield a plurality of segmented filter 21 mm in length. The segmented filters and a control cellulose acetate cigarette filter were attached to a commercial tobacco column.

The EPD of the various cigarettes Table 1 was measured using Coresta Recommended Method CRM 41 with 5 cigarettes per measurement and the delivery concentration of various smoke stream components Table 2 were measured using the ISO smoke method ISO 3308.

This example illustrates that the flavor from the clove organic particles i.e. the eugenol can be delivered via an organic porous mass. Further the concentration of flavorant delivered is related to the length of the organic porous mass.

UHMWPE binder particles about 150 micron average diameter clove organic particles about 500 micron average diameter and carbon particle additives 30 70 mesh were mixed placed in a mold lined with a paper wrapper and heated to a variety of temperatures Table 3 for 30 minutes optionally in an oxygen lean atmosphere by purging the mold with helium then sealing the mold thereby yielding a plurality of clove porous masses.

During heating the furfural methyl furfural and alpha furfural the headspace gas was analyzed via gas chromatography as a measure of the clove organic particle decomposition byproducts released during heating which in turn may indicate flavor degradation in the organic porous mass.

As temperature increases for the sintering i.e. heating of the organic porous masses the concentration of organic particulate decomposition byproducts increase. However in an oxygen lean atmosphere the concentration of organic particle decomposition byproducts are reduced by about an order of magnitude for the same temperature.

This example demonstrates that production in an oxygen lean atmosphere may advantageously mitigate organic particle decomposition.

Several organic porous masses were produced with UHMWPE binder particles about 125 micron average diameter in combination with various organic particles clove cinnamon and pipe tobacco. The sintering was performed at two temperatures 135 C. 175 C. or 220 C. in either an air environment or an oxygen lean environment vacuumed mold followed by Npurge . The organic porous masses were then tested by people for two smell tests. First the olfactory evaluation was based on the ability to smell the organic particles with a rating system from 0 to 10 where 0 smelled like the control an unsintered mixture of the binder and organic particle and 10 smelled completely different. Second the burnt evaluation was based on the ability to smell a burnt aroma with a rating system from 0 to 5 where 0 smelled no burnt aroma and 5 smelled like a burnt control the organic particle sintered at 220 C. . The results of the smell tests are provided in Table 4.

This example demonstrates that lower temperature sintering and O lean environments provide preferable olfactory characteristics for the organic porous masses described herein.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the present invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered combined or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention. The invention illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element that is not specifically disclosed herein and or any optional element disclosed herein. While compositions and methods are described in terms of comprising containing or including various components or steps the compositions and methods can also consist essentially of or consist of the various components and steps. All numbers and ranges disclosed above may vary by some amount. Whenever a numerical range with a lower limit and an upper limit is disclosed any number and any included range falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular every range of values of the form from about a to about b or equivalently from approximately a to b or equivalently from approximately a b disclosed herein is to be understood to set forth every number and range encompassed within the broader range of values. Also the terms in the claims have their plain ordinary meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee. Moreover the indefinite articles a or an as used in the claims are defined herein to mean one or more than one of the element that it introduces. If there is any conflict in the usages of a word or term in this specification and one or more patent or other documents that may be incorporated herein by reference the definitions that are consistent with this specification should be adopted.

