---

title: Hybrid planar common-mode choke
abstract: A common-mode choke includes a plurality of hybrid core inductors and a printed circuit board. Each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors includes a first core made of a first material, a second core made of a second material, and at least one common coil configured to generate a magnetic field in both the first and second cores. The printed circuit board is configured to connect the plurality of hybrid core inductors in series.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318253&OS=09318253&RS=09318253
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 09318253
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140502
---
This invention was made with government support under N65540 08 D 0017 DO 0001 awarded by the Naval Sea Systems Command NAVSEA . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to three phase active rectifiers and in particular to a hybrid planar common mode choke utilized in conjunction with active rectifiers.

A switching mode power conversion system that includes an active rectifier and a motor drive inverter generates high frequency HF voltage components that cause HF leakage currents and conducted electromagnetic interference EMI or noise. This noise flows within power feeding paths and between the power conversion system and ground. The resulting HF currents are classified in common mode CM and differential mode DM components according to their circulation paths. Modern power conversion systems must meet strict EMI requirements so filtering of electromagnetic noise is a significant concern.

Three phase active rectifiers are utilized to meet strict input current harmonics requirements during power conversion of a three phase alternating current AC input into a direct current DC output. Leakage current generated by a CM voltage of the active rectifier is the primary concern related to conducted and radiated EMI. Due to the HF leakage current conducted from the active rectifier through the earth ground the CM current circulation loop is relatively large compared to that of the DM current. The large circulation loop acts as an antenna for the radiated EMI. A filter is often employed to handle this generated CM electromagnetic noise. Prior art filters have been designed utilizing for example chokes that are implemented in a stacked configuration that include several toroidal cores stacked upon one another to achieve a desired CM inductance. This configuration however is difficult to accommodate in power converters that are subject to significant shock and vibrations. It is desirable to eliminate reduce stacking of CM choke inductor cores to eliminate reduce stresses created in high shock and vibration environments.

A common mode choke includes a plurality of hybrid core inductors and a printed circuit board. Each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors includes a first core made of a first material a second core made of a second material and at least one common coil configured to generate a magnetic field in both the first and second cores. The printed circuit board is configured to connect the plurality of hybrid core inductors in series.

A planar common mode CM choke is disclosed herein that includes multiple hybrid toroidal cores configured in a planar arrangement. Each hybrid toroidal core includes a ferrite toroidal core and a nanocrystalline toroidal core that are both magnetized by common windings. The hybrid cores are connected to one another in series through a printed circuit board PCB and are configured in a planar configuration between the PCB and a baseplate. This configuration reduces in a parallel configuration shown in or eliminates in a coaxial configuration shown in the need to stack toroidal cores on top of one another to achieve a desired CM inductance.

Various filters may be implemented to counteract the effects of the conducted CM and differential mode DM EMI. For example as illustrated in inductors L L may be implemented as a high frequency feed through bead CM inductor and capacitors C C may be connected between phase lines and ground to filter CM EMI. Capacitors C C may be connected between phase lines to filter out DM EMI. Capacitors C C may be connected in series with damping resistors R R to obtain a desirable damping DM filter that also includes active rectifier boost inductors L L and input filter inductors L L. The neutral point of this DM filter is connected to DC bus midpoint to divert the CM current from the DC bus. This filter architecture enables a low impedance CM current circulation loop suppressing high frequency noise caused by a higher impedance grounding circuit loop.

CM chokes and may be implemented to filter the CM EMI. In past systems chokes and were implemented as two dissimilar devices. For example a first CM choke was implemented utilizing only ferrite core inductors to filter high frequency CM EMI and a second CM choke was implemented utilizing only nanocrystalline core inductors to filter low frequency CM EMI. Each prior art CM choke may have included vertically stacked cores in order to obtain a desired CM inductance for filtering the CM EMI. This configuration however is not desirable in power converters that are subjected to significant shock and vibration. This configuration also requires the use of two dissimilar CM chokes for sufficient filtering of the CM EMI which increases the complexity of the system.

With continued reference to are schematic diagrams illustrating hybrid toroidal cores and for use in planar CM chokes and . illustrates hybrid core comprising a first core and a second core implemented in a parallel configuration. illustrates hybrid core comprising a first core and a second core implemented in a coaxial configuration. As illustrated in cores and may be implemented as toroidal cores. Toroidal cores offer a high effective permeance because they comprise a single continuous piece with no air gap.

As illustrated in a parallel configuration of hybrid core includes cores and implemented with substantially similar inner diameters and substantially similar outer diameters. Cores and are positioned adjacent to one another such that hybrid core also shares a substantially similar inner diameter and outer diameter. As illustrated in a coaxial configuration of hybrid core includes core having an outer diameter such that it is positionable within the inner diameter of core . Therefore hybrid core has an inner diameter equal to the inner diameter of core and an outer diameter equal to the outer diameter of core

Common three phase windings shown in may be wound in the same direction and each generate a magnetic field in respective hybrid core or . The net magnetic field is the resultant scalar sum of magnetic fields produced by each phase winding of common three phase windings. The CM current in the three phase windings is the unbalanced current between the phases. This unbalanced current generates a magnetic field in respective core or . The CM inductance creates a high impedance which in turn filters the CM current.

Each first core and may be for example implemented as a ferrite core and each second core and may be for example implemented as a nanocrystalline core or vice versa. Due to their respective magnetic properties ferrite cores may be utilized for example to filter higher frequency CM noise while nanocrystalline cores may be utilized to filter lower frequency CM noise. While described as ferrite and nanocrystalline cores any materials with magnetic properties suitable for filtering high and low frequency CM noise may be utilized for hybrid cores and

With continued reference to is a schematic diagram illustrating planar CM choke that includes three CM inductors. Each inductor contains a respective hybrid core and respective common three phase windings coils . Planar CM choke includes hybrid cores printed circuit board PCB insulation materials and baseplate and terminal blocks and . Hybrid cores include first cores and second cores . While illustrated with three hybrid cores other embodiments may include any number of hybrid cores to achieve a desired inductance. Coils are utilized to magnetize both cores and of each hybrid core . While illustrated in a parallel configuration hybrid cores may also be implemented in a coaxial configuration as illustrated in . With a coaxial configuration cores would be positioned within the inner diameter of cores . Insulation material may be implemented between the outer diameter of cores and the inner diameter of cores . Coils would be wound around the outer diameter of cores and the inner diameter of cores to generate a magnetic field within both cores and of hybrid cores 

The three phase inputs for planar CM choke may be connected to planar choke through terminal block and the three phase outputs may be provided from planar choke through terminal block . In this way multiple planar chokes may be implemented in series. For example both planar CM chokes and may be implemented using a single planar choke or for greater total CM inductance multiple similar planar chokes may be implemented in series. In this way the complexity of system over the prior art may be reduced in that CM chokes and are no longer implemented as dissimilar parts. Capacitors C C may be mounted for example on PCB along with any other components such as capacitors C C or damping resistors not shown that are desirable for use within system .

Insulation materials are positioned between baseplate and hybrid cores . Thermally conductive insulation materials may provide a thermal path to baseplate . Insulation materials may contact both coils as well as cores . If implemented in a coaxial configuration insulation materials may contact both cores of each hybrid core . In another embodiment baseplate may be replaced by an air cooled or liquid cooled heat sink. In another embodiment a thermally conductive potting material may be utilized to encapsulate hybrid cores to provide an improved thermal path to baseplate . Insulation material may be made of any material that provides good thermal conductivity and sufficient insulation between the cores of hybrid core inductors and baseplate .

It may be desirable to tailor the CM inductance of planar CM choke for specific applications. The CM inductance of planar CM choke may be calculated as follows 3 1 

It may also be desirable to tailor the properties of planar CM choke to minimize leakage inductance that is approximately independent of currents and frequency. DM inductance and DM current is a primary cause of saturation of hybrid cores . The leakage inductance is directly related to the cross sectional area of hybrid cores . It therefore may be desirable to select a cross sectional area of hybrid cores that maximizes the inductance per turn of hybrid toroidal cores while minimizing the leakage inductance. In this way the CM inductance may be maximized while minimizing the leakage inductance.

The use of planar CM chokes to filter CM EMI generated by for example active rectifier is advantageous over the prior art in that among other things it eliminates stacking of cores and provides cooling for hybrid core inductors . The planar configuration of CM choke greatly reduces the stresses caused by shock and vibration in intense environments. The use of planar CM chokes also allows for the use of a single device to filter both high frequency and low frequency CM EMI which reduces the complexity of power system over prior art systems.

A common mode choke includes a plurality of hybrid core inductors and a printed circuit board. Each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors includes a first core made of a first material a second core made of a second material and at least one common coil configured to generate a magnetic field in both the first and second cores. The printed circuit board is configured to connect the plurality of hybrid core inductors in series.

The common mode choke of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

A further embodiment of the foregoing common mode choke further including a base plate and an insulating material. The plurality of hybrid core inductors are positioned between the printed circuit board and the base plate. The insulating material is connected between the plurality of hybrid core inductors and the baseplate.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing common mode chokes wherein the insulating material is in thermal contact with both the second core and the at least one coil.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing common mode chokes wherein the first core and the second core are configured in a parallel configuration.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing common mode chokes wherein the first core and the second core are configured in a coaxial configuration.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing common mode chokes wherein the at least one coil includes a first coil connected to receive a first power phase input a second coil connected to receive a second power phase input and a third coil connected to receive a third power phase input.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing common mode chokes wherein the first material is ferrite and the second material is nanocrystalline.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing common mode chokes wherein the plurality of hybrid core inductors comprises three hybrid core inductors.

A power conversion system includes a three phase input power source an active rectifier and at least one planar common mode choke. The active rectifier converts alternating current from the three phase power source into direct current power for a load. The at least one planar common mode choke is connected to filter common mode electromagnetic interference generated by the active rectifier. The least one planar common mode choke includes a plurality of hybrid core inductors and a printed circuit board. The plurality of hybrid core inductors each include a first core and a second core. The first core and the second core share at least one coil connected to the three phase power source. The printed circuit board is configured to connect the plurality of hybrid core inductors in series and the plurality of hybrid core inductors are connected to the printed circuit board in a planar configuration.

The power conversion system of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

A further embodiment of the foregoing power conversion system wherein the at least one planar common mode choke further includes a base plate and an insulating material. The plurality of hybrid core inductors are positioned between the printed circuit board and the base plate. The insulating material is connected between the plurality of hybrid core inductors and the baseplate.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing power conversion systems wherein the insulating material is in thermal contact with one of the first core and the second core of each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors and wherein the insulating material is in further thermal contact with the at least one coil of each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing power conversion systems wherein the first core and the second core of each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors are configured in a parallel configuration.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing power conversion systems wherein the first core and the second core of each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors are configured in a coaxial configuration.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing power conversion systems wherein the at least one coil includes a first coil connected to receive a first power phase input from the three phase input power source a second coil connected to receive a second power phase input from the three phase input power source and a third coil connected to receive a third power phase input from the three phase input power source.

A further embodiment of any of the foregoing power conversion systems wherein the first core of each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors is a ferrite core and the second core of each of the plurality of hybrid core inductors is a nanocrystalline core.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

