---

title: Methods and systems for processing data streams from data producing objects of vehicle and home entities and generating recommendations and settings
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for cloud processing data streamed from a vehicle and a home associated with a user account. One method includes receiving metadata from the vehicle regarding one or more data producing objects of the vehicle and receiving metadata from the home regarding one or more data producing objects of the home. The method further includes accessing action rules for the user account. The action rules require at least one condition that relates to the vehicle and at least one condition that relates to the home. The conditions are determined based on content of the received metadata. The method further includes sending control information to one of the vehicle or the home to recommend or make a setting to one of the data producing objects when one of the action rules are satisfied. In one embodiment, explicit preferences and learned preferences are used to filter or adjust when to send control information or to avoid sending control information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536197&OS=09536197&RS=09536197
owner: 
number: 09536197
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140926
---
This is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 275 569 entitled Methods and Systems for Sending Contextual Content to Connected Vehicles and Configurable Interaction Modes for Vehicles filed on May 12 2014 which is a continuation in part of application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 784 823 entitled Methods and Systems for Defining Custom Vehicle User Interface Configurations and Cloud Services for Managing Applications for the User Interface and Learning Setting Functions filed on Mar. 5 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 745 729 filed on Dec. 24 2012 and entitled Methods and Systems For Electric Vehicle EV Charging Charging Systems Internet Applications and User Notifications and all of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This Application is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 452 882 filed Apr. 22 2012 and entitled Electric Vehicle EV Range Extending Charge Systems Distributed Networks Of Charge Kiosks And Charge Locating Mobile Apps which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 478 436 filed on Apr. 22 2011 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for identifying entities such as vehicles homes devices and other computing or data producing systems and processing rules to identify when conditions exist in particular contexts to generate recommendations alerts send or make settings or generally control information. Cloud processing is used to receive data streams from various devices and the data streams are processed to identify metadata from the streams and the metadata is examined to determine when particular rules are triggered. When the rules are triggered it is possible to send notifications recommendations and or settings to the entities which may be the home entity or vehicle entity or device entity or all. The systems therefore define technical configurations and exchanges of information with cloud based processing systems and connected processing entities.

Vehicles such as motorized vehicles and electric vehicles have been around for some time. Vehicles provide a means that enable humans to drive from place to place. In today s world vehicles have become an indispensable mode of transportation and provide the freedom to travel at any time of day and for various distances. Vehicles can be publically operated or can be privately owned. Humans most commonly operate vehicles no matter the type whether electric or combustion engine based. In recent years technology has been advancing to allow for better wireless interfacing and networking with vehicles. However these systems remain basic and lack understanding of user preferences and the context in which actions or settings are made.

Embodiments are disclosed which enable processing of data captured from a multitude of data producing objects. In one embodiment data producing objects are associated with objects that relate to information places vehicles homes and environments associated with a user. For example a vehicle can have a multitude of objects that capture information from sensors receive input from users and change location overtime. Similarly users may associate specific location as home locations wherein they may spend more time than other places.

Home locations can include a person s home or work location or school location. At these home locations users can have access to various types of data producing objects such as lighting systems alarm systems camera systems motion sensors image sensors entertainment systems personal electronics personal monitors garden watering systems solar systems the energy grid and the like. A common thread between these data producing objects is their relationship to specific users and or associated user accounts.

In some embodiments intersections of relevance between disparate data produced by these data producing objects will yield new data that can provide useful assistance to a user. In specific examples users that operate vehicles must rely on data produced by the vehicle. Some of this data is more relevant at particular times than others such as speed information is more important when the vehicle is actively moving than when the vehicle is stopped. Other information such as entertainment options in a vehicle may be more important when the operation of the vehicle appears to be occurring during a time of normal driving as opposed to a time when abrupt driving maneuvers are taking place.

Additionally the status of one or more features of a home such as lighting heating and cooling water gardening entertainment functions energy consumption etc. will be more relevant or important when a user is at home or is heading home or is about to depart for a trip. Accordingly intersections of data occur when the context of a user location of the user time of day time of month user s calendar data user s current or past trip itineraries etc. and the context of the information producing objects meet that yield information that can be consumed by the user who indeed will find the information useful.

The contextual relevance can be based on information associated with the geo location of the vehicle the state condition of the vehicle learned preferences information in user online accounts or personal devices information from social networks information from patterns of use by the user information based on the time of day week month or based on when certain inputs or data is requested or looked up by the user. The intersection of these information points allows for the system to provide contextually relevant information to the vehicle when the user needs the information so that distracted driving can be reduced.

Further the vehicle can be customized or the user account profile can be customized for vehicles to allow interaction modes to be used. Interaction modes define the way of access input look and feel content simplicity complexity skins etc. of the user interfaces or controls of the vehicle. By enabling this level of customization vehicles can be configured or customized over time to the way each user is most comfortable thus reducing distracted driving.

In one embodiment a method is provided for cloud processing data streamed from a vehicle and a home associated with a user account. This example includes receiving metadata from the vehicle regarding one or more data producing objects of the vehicle and receiving metadata from the home regarding one or more data producing objects of the home. The method further includes accessing action rules for the user account. The action rules require at least one condition that relates to the vehicle and at least one condition that relates to the home. The conditions are determined based on content of the received metadata. The method further includes sending control information to one of the vehicle or the home to recommend or make a setting to one of the data producing objects when one of the action rules are satisfied. In one embodiment explicit preferences and learned preferences are used to filter or adjust when to send control information or to avoid sending control information.

In some embodiments the action rules are not processed until the content of the received metadata relate to one of the action rules.

In some embodiments methods include receiving feedback data regarding user action taken in response to the sent control information and establishing learned preferences based on the user action taken and saving the learned preferences to the first user account.

In some embodiments methods include associating a second user account to the vehicle and the home the second user account and the first user account having assignable privileges that identify priorities of preferences for specific data producing objects of the vehicle and the home.

In some embodiments geo location of the vehicle and proximity to the home are utilized by one or more of the action rules.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method for processing data streams received from a home entity and a vehicle entity is provided. The method includes receiving a data stream from the vehicle entity. The data stream from the vehicle entity including metadata from one or more data producing objects of the vehicle entity. The method also includes receiving a data stream from the home entity. The data stream from the home entity including metadata from one or more data producing objects of the home entity. The method may also include accessing action rules associated with a user account. The action rules identifying conditions where states of the metadata from the home entity and the vehicle entity occur and a time of control information to process. The method further includes processing the received metadata from the vehicle entity and the home entity to identify. The processing identifies metadata that satisfies one of the action rules. The method also includes sending control information to the user account. The user account determining when the control information is sent to the vehicle entity or the home entity for surfacing information or making a setting regarding the satisfied action rule.

In some embodiments making a setting includes sending control data to make a setting program a state update data change state or program data at one of the data producing objects of the vehicle or home entities.

In some embodiments surfacing information includes providing one of a notification an alert a message a text an alarm.

In some embodiments the receiving accessing processing and sending is managed by a cloud processing system.

In some embodiments explicit preferences or learned preferences are used to filter or adjust when to send control information or to avoid sending control information.

In one embodiment a method for processing data streams from a vehicle entity and a home entity to provide recommendations to a user account is provided. The method includes receiving a first data stream from the vehicle entity and the first data stream is defined by data units DUs from a plurality of data producing objects DPOs of the vehicle entity. The method also includes receiving a second data stream from the home entity. The second data stream is defined by DUs from a plurality of DPOs of the home entity. The vehicle entity and the home entity are associated with the user account managed by a cloud processing system. The cloud processing system is configured to receive the DUs from of the DPOs of certain of the vehicle entity and certain of the home entity from time to time. Each DU includes one or more metadata items that describe a state of operation of particular DPOs at select times. The method further includes accessing at a current time action rules programmed for the user account and for the current time identifying an action rule. The method includes identifying at least one metadata item from each of a DPO of the vehicle entity and a DPO of the home entity that relate to the action rule. The method includes processing the at least one metadata item from each of the DPO of the vehicle entity and the DPO of the home entity to identify a recommendation. The processing acts to identify a relationship between metadata items that is pre correlated to the recommendation. And sending the recommendation to the user account for access via a user interface of the vehicle.

In some embodiments the method includes saving use data of the vehicle for each login the use data further being linked to automatic notifications such that certain use data triggers an automatic notification to an administrator of the user account the notifications including text notifications phone call notifications web notifications smartphone notifications social network notifications or combinations thereof. In some embodiments biometrics include one or more of image data of a driver s face a passenger s face a finger print a retina scan a signature a gesture or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment a custom configuration or setting is generated using tools and programs made available on a website. The tools and programs may be executed by computers such as computers of a data center to provide cloud based processing. The data centers can be distributed geographically and the communication to specific vehicles can be dynamically assigned to various geographic data centers as the vehicles move around geographically.

Embodiments of the present invention define methods systems and apparatus for use in vehicles. The methods systems and apparatus include electronics of vehicles that drive display devices in vehicles and communicate wirelessly with Internet services. In some embodiments systems and methods are provided for identifying entities such as vehicles homes devices and other computing or data producing systems and processing rules to identify when conditions exist in particular contexts to generate recommendations alerts send or make settings etc. generally control information. Cloud processing is used to receive data streams from various devices and the data streams are processed to identify metadata from the streams and the metadata is examined to determine when particular rules are triggered or not triggered based on preferences or learned feedback of a user e.g. via a user account . When some rules are triggered at particular times and based on the context of the data producing objects the cloud processing systems and modules are configured to send notifications recommendations and or settings to the entities which may be the home entity or vehicle entity or device entity or all. This information is generally referred to as control information which may simply provide notifications or can actually make setting changes at the DPOs.

The systems therefore define technical configurations and computational exchanges of information with cloud based processing systems modules of the cloud routines that process operations modules that communicate to determine logic database accesses and data structure handling in addition to communication with networking equipment of the cloud switches storage and logic.

Embodiments are disclosed which enable processing of data captured from a multitude of data producing objects. In one embodiment data producing objects are associated with objects that relate to information places vehicles homes and environments associated with a user. For example a vehicle can have a multitude of objects that capture information from sensors receive input from users and change location overtime. Similarly users may associate specific location as home locations wherein they may spend more time than other places.

Home locations can include a person s home or work location or school location. At these home locations users can have access to various types of data producing objects such as lighting systems alarm systems camera systems motion sensors image sensors entertainment systems personal electronics personal monitors garden watering systems solar systems the energy grid and the like. A common thread between these data producing objects is their relationship to specific users and or associated user accounts.

In some embodiments intersections of relevance between disparate data produced by these data producing objects will yield new data that can provide useful assistance to a user. In specific examples users that operate vehicles must rely on data produced by the vehicle. Some of this data is more relevant at particular times than others such as speed information is more important when the vehicle is actively moving than when the vehicle is stopped. Other information such as entertainment options in a vehicle may be more important when the operation of the vehicle appears to be occurring during a time of normal driving as opposed to a time when abrupt driving maneuvers are taking place.

Additionally the status of one or more features of a home such as lighting heating and cooling water gardening entertainment functions energy consumption etc. will be more relevant or important when a user is at home or is heading home or is about to depart for a trip. Accordingly intersections of data occur when the context of a user location of the user time of day time of month user s calendar data user s current or past trip itineraries etc. and the context of the information producing objects meet that yield information that can be consumed by the user who indeed will find the information useful.

In some embodiments information generated by examining the relevance of multiple data streams can be used to deliver recommendations notifications make settings suggest settings to user accounts. The recommendations notifications settings and or suggestions may relate to a particular entity or more than one entity. For example the recommendation may be regarding some vehicle setting vehicle location current location proximity to goods services or relate to a user s appointment e.g. by accessing the user s calendar and or to do listings. Thus as explained in more detail below by finding intersections between related data it is possible to discover other information that is useful to be sent to the user or user account e.g. to a vehicle to a home control to a personal computing device to a connected device or multiple devices.

In one example if a user is detected to be driving away from his or her home at 9 am on a weekday and it is detected that the user s home is not occupied and the rear door is open or unlocked the user may be provided with a notification regarding the door e.g. before the use drives too far from home. If motion sensors or other occupancy sensors detect that the home is occupied e.g. by a family member then the notification will not be sent. In still another example the user s vehicle is driving around town near a grocery store and the home refrigerator detects that milk is needed the user may be provided with a recommendation to stop and purchase milk. However if the user s calendar shows that the user has a meeting staring soon the system may not send the recommendation to get milk as this would conflict with the user making it on time to his or her meeting.

The contextual relevance can be based on information associated with the geo location of the vehicle the state condition of the vehicle learned preferences information in user online accounts information from social networks information from patterns of use by the user information based on the time of day week month or based on when certain inputs or data is requested or looked up by the user. The intersection of these information points allow for the system e.g. server vehicle computer user device or combinations thereof to provide contextually relevant information to the vehicle when the user needs the information so that distracted driving can be reduced.

Further the vehicle can be customized or the user account profile can be customized for vehicles to allow interaction modes to be used. Interaction modes define the way of access input look and feel content simplicity complexity skins etc. of the user interfaces or controls of the vehicle. By enabling this level of customization vehicles can be configured or customized over time to the way each user is most comfortable thus reducing distracted driving. This customization can also extend to physical inputs such as knobs switches buttons dials etc. The customization can be in one embodiment by adding display screens to physical inputs to define hybrid inputs. The display screens can be on the physical inputs or beside the inputs so that the content displayed can change thus changing the functionality of each or some or one of the physical input based on an interaction mode or setting. By providing this level of customization distracted driving can be reduced as the vehicle is customized to what the user is most comfortable with and can thus concentrate on driving.

The Internet services provide access to cloud services. The cloud services provide access to user accounts and access to settings configurations applications and other customization defined by the user. Customization can include user interface customization of a vehicle display or displays. The customization can include the ability to select specific applications APPS to be activated by the vehicle and interfaced via the display or displays voice input touch input etc. The customization is also provided with a learning engine that learns use by the user and automatically implements settings or programming to aspects of the user interface. The programming can include automatic programming at certain times days months years etc. and can be updated or molded over time as the user continues to use the vehicle UI.

In one embodiment a user can access cloud services for a vehicle manufacturer and identify the particular vehicle from selected choices. The user can then identify a customization profile for the vehicle by defining the look and feel of a UI display arrangement of vehicle controls on displays add and associate third party APPS to the vehicle display and save the configuration.

The configuration in one embodiment is saved to the profile of the user. In one embodiment the profile is saved on a database of a specific vehicle manufacturer that offers the customization option. In still other embodiments once a configuration is saved to the profile account of a user that configuration can be shared to other vehicles of the user. In still other embodiments when a user buys a new car the custom configuration can be transferred either entirely or partially to the new vehicle. In some embodiments if the vehicle has more or less system functions the customization can be adjusted automatically or the user can be provided with options to update the customization to add or delete features. In one embodiment the customization will be facilitated via a website. In one embodiment the website may be of the vehicle manufacturer. In one embodiment the website of the vehicle manufacturer can allow the user to add APPS that are created by third parties. The third parties can create APPS that communicate with APIs of the system components of specific vehicles of the manufacturer. Once APPS are selected the user can add them to the custom user interface UI display.

The user can also be allowed to arrange the APPS or icons of APPS in a specific custom arrangement that is saved to the user s profile. In one embodiment the user s profile can also be run on various vehicles other than those owned by the user. For instance if the user is renting a vehicle and the vehicle has access to cloud services the user can enter his user name and password or other identifiers which log the user into the cloud services and saved profiles. The saved profiles will then enable logic to build a custom UI for the user based on the vehicle being driven. In one embodiment the system components and APIs of the system components of the rented vehicle can be paired or linked to the user s saved APP selections.

The user s saved UI configuration may also be transferred to the display of the rented or other vehicle vehicle. A best fit configuration can also be generated using the user s profile selections so that the configuration provided for the other vehicle will closely resemble or appear as it does for the configured vehicle. In other embodiments the user s use metrics can be monitored. The use metrics can include use of APPS use be of system components of the vehicle use of the vehicle environment conditions and historical actions taken by the user via the input output controls of the vehicle e.g. buttons levers keys fobs display selections display interface actions communication actions etc. .

These historical actions can then be used to define learned actions. The learned actions can be analyzed to change configuration settings in the user s saved profile. For instance if the user uses a particular APP every day at a particular time that APP icon can be surfaced to the display or preset to start. The APP can then provide information to the user at about the same time the user normally needs the information. Other historical use patterns can be monitored and such data can be saved to the user s profile. The data can then be used by algorithms that build assumptions based on historical inputs by a user as well as environmental inputs location inputs vehicle diagnostic inputs internet connected marketing deals the user s calendar traffic conditions as well as news. The assumptions the algorithm builds are then processed into decisions and actions by an additional algorithmic process to activate local or remote audio and visual alerts change vehicle systems display information on a vehicle s displays and request a decision from a user locally or remotely to complete an action.

A number of embodiments are described below with reference to specific implementations that refer to vehicles but such implementations should be broadly construed to include any type of vehicle structure or object. Without limitation vehicles can include any type of moving object that can be steered and can include vehicles that are for human occupancy or not. Vehicles can include those that are privately owned owned by corporations commercially operated vehicles such as buses automobiles trucks cars buses trains trolleys etc. Example vehicles can include those that are combustion engine based electric engine EV based hybrids or other types of energy source vehicles.

A cloud processing system as described herein will include systems that are operated and connected to the Internet or to each other using local networking communication protocols. A cloud processing system can be defined as an interconnected and distributed physical or virtual software defined network that utilizes virtual or physical processing and storage machines that enable various applications and operating systems to facilitate the communication with and between various client devices vehicles user devices structures objects etc. . The communication with and between the various client devices will enable the cloud processing system to deliver additional processing information data and real time metrics concerning data obtained from other processing systems as well as client feedback data. The distributed nature of the cloud processing system will enable users of various vehicles structures and objects to access the Internet and be presented with more flexible processing power that will provide the requested services in a more effective manner.

The processing systems can be defined from various data centers that include multiple computing systems that provide the processing power to execute one or more computer readable programs. The processing of the computer readable programs can produce operations that can respond to requests made by other processing systems that may be local to a vehicle s electronic system. For example a vehicle can include electronics that utilize memory and a processor to execute program instructions to provide services.

In other embodiments the electronics of a vehicle can synchronize with a user s portable electronics. The user s electronics can include for example mobile devices that include smartphones tablet computers laptop computers general purpose computers special purpose computers etc. The various computing devices of the vehicle and or the computing devices of the user smart devices can be connected to the Internet or to each other. Provided that a user has access or account access to the cloud service the cloud processing services on the Internet can provide additional processing information to the electronics of the vehicle.

The wireless communication can include cellular tower communication that couples and communicates through various networks to the Internet to provide access to cloud processing . Other methods can include providing Wi Fi communication to local Wi Fi transmitters and receivers which communicate with cloud processing . Other types of communication can include radio frequency communication such as 802.11.ac 802.11ad and subsequent wireless networking protocols Bluetooth communication or combinations of Wi Fi and Bluetooth. It should be understood that vehicle electronics can communicate with cloud processing via any number of communication methods so long as exchanges of data can be made with cloud processing from time to time.

The communication can be made by vehicle electronics while the vehicle is on or when the vehicle is off so long as communication and processing circuitry of vehicle electronics has a power source. The power source can include battery power that powers vehicle electronics to communicate with cloud processing when vehicle is turned off. When vehicle is turned on the battery that drives vehicle electronics can be recharged.

The applications provided to the vehicle manufacturers can also verify functionality and approve aspects of the application to be provided to an applications database. Users of vehicles made by the manufacturer can then access a website to select specific applications for addition to their vehicles. In one example an Internet site may therefore be managed by or for the vehicle manufacture. User account profiles can be managed to provide access to APPS of an app portal . In other examples the site can be managed by third party companies partner companies that cooperate with a vehicle manufacturers and or internet companies that provide some or all of the backend or front end services and cloud storage and processing.

The vehicle manufacturer may also manage or provide a vehicle type database or provide data for the database . As the vehicle manufacturer makes updates to existing APPS systems or adds new vehicles to its vehicle lines the vehicle type database may also be updated accordingly. Updates can also be forwarded to the vehicle over time or can be automatically installed. The updates in one embodiment can provide new UI features controls etc. As shown the app portal may include a plurality of applications that have been developed by developers and or also approved by the manufacturer of the vehicle.

The app portal can also include APPS that are produced by the vehicle manufacturer or applications that are made for the vehicle manufacturer. Cloud services includes various modules that allow customers of the vehicle manufacturers to access the vehicle manufacturers cloud services and provide interconnection to the vehicles in operation. In one example a user uses a computing device to access cloud services in order to customize the user interface of a vehicle. Broadly speaking the user interface of a vehicle can include any display device in the vehicle.

In one embodiment the display device can include displays that can provide instrumentation normally provided by standard vehicle indicators. The display device is not limited to a display normally placed in the center console but can also any display screen. The display screen can also include that used to normally provide speed and systems settings in the dash over the wheel. The display screen can also include other screens in a vehicle such as those in passenger areas. Additionally the user interface can also include display devices that display systems and auxiliary information such as that provided by applications generated by developers and or applications produced by the vehicle manufacture. In one embodiment the vehicle manufacturer will produce a software module for systems information that allow access to the system components of the vehicle.

The systems component is shown as SYS which is interfaced with an application programming interface API . The vehicle module will therefore include the systems component and the API that will provide access and interface with applications produced by third parties and applications produced by the vehicle manufacture. In one embodiment the system components interfaced with selected ones of the applications will produce a customized configuration . The customize configuration will define the selected applications that were interfaced with the systems of the selected vehicle by the user . Once the customize configuration has been selected e.g. the APPS selected by the user to add or augment the current system APPS or system controls the user may be provided with options to customize the arrangement of the UI user interface .

The customization in one embodiment includes enabling the user to customize the user interface by arranging specific components of the user interface and specific locations on the display. For example a user is allowed to select specific components modules applets widgets code pieces and arrange them in specific locations that are preferred to the specific user for ease of use or frequency of use or for a specific look and feel.

This arrangement of the UI will therefore enable specific applications to act as modules that can be arranged on a display. The applications can then expand or contract to occupy the entire display when selected and exposing additional functions buttons annualize when selected. As will be defined below additional customization of the arrangement of the UI will allow user interaction with the user interface to customize itself based on learned use activity e.g. over a history period by the user. In one optional embodiment a user is allowed to associate a smartphone or portable device having applications with the customization configuration in operation . For example if certain applications are already loaded on a smartphone or portable device that is proximate or in the vehicle the applications can synchronize or pair with the applications that are part of the customize configuration . The capability of synchronizing certain applications with the customize configuration of the vehicle allows for an integration of applications known and used by the user on the personal device and applications that were made part of the customize configuration using the customization tools of the vehicle manufacturer.

Once the user has customized the arrangements and has associated any portable device applications to the customized configuration the custom UI may be transferred to the user account profile in operation . The transfer of the customize UI to that user account profile can include saving specific identifier information application information and any customization desired by the user for that specific vehicle or plurality of vehicles. Once the custom UI has been saved to the user account profile database the user can then transfer or the manufacturer cloud services can transfer the profile and custom UI to the vehicle in operation .

The transfer of the custom UI to the vehicle can be made by Internet connection between the vehicle electronics and the Internet . As shown in the transfer of the custom UI to the vehicle can occur once the customization has occurred. In one embodiment the customization configured by the user can also be saved to the user account of user in a database of the manufacturer. If the user then buys another car from the same manufacturer the custom user interface can be transferred to the other vehicle in a seamless manner. If the other vehicle has additional features not provided by the earlier a mapping algorithm provided by cloud services can adjust the settings for the new vehicle to match or substantially match those of the earlier vehicle based on the user s preferences. In one embodiment the matching can be a best fit or compatible scenario which provides the user with substantially similar configuration. The configuration can then be updated by the user if the custom settings or configurations made by the cloud services do not meet the users desire or configuration.

The API provides a defined method and structure for accessing the various control interfaces of the system elements of a vehicle. Other types of systems can also include add on components plug ins such as those that may be downloaded to the vehicle from third party companies from the manufacturer or installed by the manufacturer automatically or with pre permission . Still further other systems can include displays which may be part of the vehicle. The displays can be provided with a control interface to enable the API to access the display functionality. In one embodiment a vehicle can have a number of displays. The number displays can be for example the main dashboard for vehicle a center console of the vehicle a rear display a passenger display a glass display a mirror display a heads up display glasses of the driver the windshield of a vehicle with display capability a window of the vehicle a touch surface of the vehicle or portable devices link or synchronized to the vehicle electronics that provide access to the display system and control interfaces via the API .

As illustrated the system component may be defined by a vehicle manufacturer for a specific vehicle type. In one embodiment a vehicle website or third party site may provide access to system component definitions for specific vehicles. In one example the vehicle website may be provided by a vehicle manufacturer . The vehicle manufacturer may provide a listing of the types of vehicles sold by the manufacturer and the various years for those vehicles as model types and functionality in each model change over time. In one embodiment a user can visit the vehicle manufacturer via websites or a cloud service and select the vehicle to obtain the system component . In one embodiment a particular vehicle type and year of vehicle may make use of more than one system component if the manufacturer provided more than one system component or update.

For example an application can be selected by the user to provide a custom radio interface which replaces the radio interface provided by the vehicle manufacturer. In still another example an application can be provided to replace the temperature meters with custom temperature meters and provide additional data on the display not provided by the standard vehicle manufacturer user interfaces.

In still another embodiment the application selected by the user can define complementary functionality that will function in conjunction with the system components. In this example the application functionalities that are paired with the system component to define the custom configuration will provide a hybrid user interface that is custom to the user. The customization is defined by the user for example by selecting specific applications selecting different background colors wallpapers for the user interfaces selecting different input interfaces adjusting the location and positioning of application components displayed on a vehicle display and programming the various application elements and functions to operates and provide feedback based on user defined programming.

In still another embodiment the custom configuration can be defined by the user to provide a different background color on different days of the week. The background color can be customized or replaced with pictures or photographs customized and selected or uploaded by the user. In this way the user interface system components and applications installed on the vehicle will provide a customized look and feel that is defined by the user for the vehicle and additional functionality will cooperate and function with the systems of the vehicle by providing the mapping to the API to each of the applications that are selected by the user.

In still another embodiment the applications can function alongside system components without requiring the applications to interface directly with manufacturers systems the of the control interfaces. In this scenario applications can function and be placed in the user interface of the custom configuration in the same locations set by the user.

In one embodiment the custom configuration will define a custom interface that will be rendered on a display of a vehicle or on more than one display of vehicle. In one embodiment the applications that are provided for selection in listing may include third party produced applications as well as applications produced by the vehicle manufacturer. Still further the applications may be add on applications that provide additional functionality to existing applications or existing system configurations. In still other embodiments the applications can be defined as applets plug ins widgets code subsets skins code or combinations of one or more thereof.

The cloud services may provide interface customization tools that will allow the user to select the application select the system component for the vehicle and arrange the selected applications arrangement of the applications on the display screen settings for the different applications etc. to thus define a custom configuration for the user interface. The custom configuration will then be saved to a user profile database which saves the custom configuration and provides access to the custom configuration for updates from time to time by the user or for updates provided by the vehicle manufacturer.

In one specific example a user can visit a website an app or a portal to customize a vehicle display using tools provided by a website that allows the customization. The tools can include pull down menus selection icons text entries radio buttons arrangement and customization feature selectors program settings etc. The user can access the website using any user device. The user device can also include setting the custom configuration via a vehicle . In general the configuration can be made using any device that has access to the Internet.

In operation the user will select a vehicle using the tools provided by the website. Selecting the vehicle will allow the correct selection of the system component for that vehicle and any other updates or parameters defined by the vehicle manufacturer. The systems for the vehicle user interface will then be identified in operation . A tool than be provided to allow selection of the apps to add to the interface in operation . As mentioned in this disclosure the user can select any number of applications to add to the custom configuration. From time to time the user can select additional applications to add to the custom configuration or removed from the custom configuration. In operation the user customization for the user interface will be received including the defined applications and systems.

In operation the custom configuration will then be generated and can be assigned to the user profile of a user account in a database s of websites handling the cloud services . In some embodiments the website may be hosted in a distributed manner using virtualization and distributed data centers. The distributed data centers can then communicate data and process operation to the vehicle to execute the applications and system components and provide resources from third party applications and applications over the Internet.

The generated custom configuration can then be transferred to the vehicle and operated using vehicle electronics . Vehicle electronics can also include a display. As mentioned above the display can be a single display or a plurality of displays. The displays are configured to generate images for various screens selections icons buttons controls and received touch input and communicate text information and other data to users.

A user having an account with cloud services will have previously defined custom configurations that may be downloaded or accessed without download for the specific vehicle. The vehicle ID would be sent to the cloud services by the vehicle upon sending the request for the custom configuration.

In this example the display is populated with user interfaces for the system as well as the applications. As shown app interfaces may be presented in specific locations in the user interface as well as system interfaces that are provided in other specific locations in the user interface. In one embodiment the definition of where the specific user interfaces for the systems and the apps are to be defined is set by the user during the configuration process.

In other embodiments the positioning and layout or arrangement of the specific components of the user interface whether they be system interfaces or app interfaces may be custom arranged by the system over time based on use patterns. The use patterns of the user can be learned by the system so as to arrange the various system components and app components in various locations of the display . In other embodiments certain interfaces will be surfaced e.g. shown in prominent locations on the display at certain times of day certain times of the week certain times of the month certain times of the year etc. Better placement of the app components and system components and programming of data into the components can be optimized over time based on learning the input patterns provided by the user to user interface.

For example if the user always views the weather in the mornings at 8 o clock or 9 o clock and a.m. then the weather icon or interface will automatically start to be surfaced on the display during those times. If the user plays rock n roll rock music on the weekends and classical music during the weekdays this preference will also be learned. Learning of these preferences will act to custom define the layouts and placement of the icons and user interfaces on the display over time. In still other embodiments the specific placement location and arrangement of the apps system components buttons controls etc. will be preset and fixed by the user based on predefined settings.

These predefined or learned settings can be saved to the database in cloud services and associated with the user account. Updates to the settings can then be made at any time by accessing cloud services over the Internet using any device whether the devices are in the car of the car a portable device a home computer a work computer a tablet a smart phone a smart watch computer etc. Also shown in is an embodiment where a user s smart phone or mobile device is synchronized with the user interface of the vehicle . In this embodiment the user s portable device can synchronize and upload content and UI controls from applications stored and running on the portable device . This provides for safer driving as the controls shown on the vehicle display can be restricted based on driving or operation status.

In one embodiment the user can custom configure to have content from applications running on the portable device to be displayed in the vehicle displayed in a specific location. This location on the display can then be synchronized or mirrored to that part of the display based on the configuration. In still other embodiments the custom configuration can determine to synchronize an application running on the portal device to occupy the entire display . For example if the user wishes to use his own telephone calling interface and contacts that are stored on the portable device that information can be populated and mirrored to the display device while still using other system components or other applications of the vehicle in the background or in a separate screen that is not currently active. In this example the portable device as well as the vehicle electronics can communicate with cloud services at the same time or when specific functions data or communication is required.

However the user that defines the custom configuration can decide to maintain certain system component applications . The custom interface may therefore include a hybrid of third party applications and system applications all designed to be laid out arranged and provide the look and feel functionality desired by the user. In this illustration a third party app is provided for a calendar. The calendar may be synchronized with a user s online calendar which automatically populates the users data to the vehicle user interface. The radio app may also be a third party app which may have radio stations that are a mix of land based radio and Internet radio. Scores from time to time the user can then arrange the location of the specific applications to different portions of the display.

Still further certain applications can increase in size when being used or decrease in size to enable selection at a later time. For example selecting the temperature system component may expand the system component to a larger space thus temporarily removing other displayed components. The user can also select other buttons to access other system controls other apps or modify or add applications or system controls. When modifications are made the modifications are saved to a user database and profile of the user as managed by cloud services.

Cloud services will therefore allow any future modifications to be made to the custom configuration at any time and from any computer connected to the Internet. Still further the custom configuration can be transferred to a second vehicle. If the custom configuration is transferred to a second vehicle the system can select the system components for the second vehicle and attempted do a best match of applications available for the second vehicle that resemble or match the ones used in a first vehicle. Specific settings arrangements and other features may also be transferred to a second vehicle by simply transferring the custom configuration to a second vehicle.

If the sections are customizable the user can select certain portions of interface to be provided by another third party application . For example interfaces can be used to customize the entire system component such as the entire radio interface or the customize radio interface . The interface can be itself customized by adding sub applications or subcomponents of code that define smaller user interface sections for the custom system configuration of a radio.

Once specific modules have been customized either by selecting pre customized third party applications or by constructing a custom module these modules can be arranged to define a custom placement or arrangement of user interface modules to be displayed on a vehicle display . The customized display can therefore be defined by a plurality of modules which may be provided or obtained by adding third party applications to the custom interface design by the user or by moving or arranging existing user interface components provided by the manufacturer to specific locations on a screen arrangement. Other customization features can include adding custom backgrounds such as images pictures and other multimedia components to the display.

In one embodiment the custom interface can include smaller icons GUIs that identify specific applications that were added to the custom interface that when selected expand to provide the functionality of the applications. The applications can be minimized or maximized on the screen. In one embodiment the functions of the specific applications illustrated in the display will be monitored and restricted depending on safety considerations while driving. For example if the interfacing functionality requires more interactivity with the display or requires a reading of text or inputting text those functions will be disabled during operation of the vehicle. Once the vehicle comes to a stop or is placed in Park certain of these functions will be activated. In other embodiments other safety considerations will allow for applications to shift from outputting text to outputting audio or voice. The input can also be changed from touchscreen button touches selections and or voice input. In still other embodiments safety considerations can allow certain user interface components to move about the display to provide easier reading while driving or automatic conversion of text to audio.

For example content being displayed in the center panel display of the vehicle can be automatically shown in the dashboard display region of the vehicle such as in front of the steering wheel. In still other embodiments some content or display data can be moved from the center console or the display in front of the steering wheel to the windshield of the vehicle in a heads up display area. Accordingly algorithms executed by the applications and applications of the manufacturer can cooperate to provide functionality to the application features and interfaces while maintaining safety parameters defined by rules. The safety parameters will therefore allow content of the user interface to be shifted around to various displays of the vehicle or translated to voice or audio at certain points in time.

These settings and customizations can be made through the web cloud services and tools provided by the website of for example the manufacturer of the vehicle. In one embodiment the cloud services provided by the manufacturer can be provided by a partner of the manufacturer. The partners of the manufacturer can include software companies that develop host or manage certain functionality provided by the vehicle manufacturer. In other embodiments the partner software companies can integrate tools or components with tools and components of the vehicle manufacturer. This provides for an integration with one or more cloud services software services Internet services and services provided by systems of vehicles or systems of the vehicle manufacture. In either case whether the software and logic is designed and constructed by one or more entities the cloud services provided by the vehicle manufacturer or the website that provides the tools for customization will appear as a unified simple to use interface for the user. As mentioned above the cloud services can provide databases for saving the user profile and data associated with the user account.

The user profile can include settings made by the user customizations made by the user identification of applications purchased or added to the vehicle customizations etc. Still further the user profile data can be part or be associated with the user account. In this manner the user that customized a user interface can access the Internet at any time whether through the vehicle or through any other computing device having access to the Internet and make changes modifications or access control features of the vehicle remotely. In one embodiment the profile of the user can be accessed from any vehicle such as rented vehicles or shared vehicles. Settings and profile data can then be shared for a period of time on any vehicle and use data on that vehicle can be stored.

Continuing with the example of it is shown that several of the components of the custom interface can include applications from 3rd parties or applications and controls provided by the vehicle manufacturer. In one embodiment an application provided by third party such as an online calendar can be synchronized with the user s calendar managed by a 3rd party or stored by a 3rd party on a website. For example if the user uses a cloud service to store his or her calendar the calendar appointments can also be displayed on the vehicle interface and are synchronized to the users global calendar settings that are accessible through any computing device. In one embodiment the daily planner can include data or information for the user such as reminders to purchase or get certain things. If while the user is driving around those certain things can be purchased or obtained from local merchants the user can be provided with notifications of availability of those particular things or goods the user desires to purchase.

In still other embodiments advertisers can provide data to the user that is relevant to the user such as discounts for the goods or services the user wishes to purchase. In still another embodiment an application can be provide for the vehicle that provides a user the ability to set and to find certain things such as goods and services the user needs. As the user drives around and algorithm determines whether certain goods or services are available in the proximity of the vehicle s driving actions. If the vehicle approaches or is near certain goods and services and such goods and services are advertised to have a discount or availability the user can be notified on the user display or by audio output by the vehicle. This functionality can be enabled or disabled on demand as programmed by the user in the application that s added to the user interface.

Still in it is shown that other applications can be embedded into other applications. For example the standard system interface for the temperature control and fan of the vehicle can be customized to add additional features. For example in addition to the controls for the standard vehicle settings the user can also be provided with controls to access or add additional applications. These additional applications can be embedded or overlaid on other applications. In one example and embedded application can allow user to embed a weather application which is synchronized to an Internet service. In other embodiments other applications such as phone messages notes and the like can be synchronized with an Internet application or with a local device.

The local device might be the user s mobile phone the user s computer wristwatch the user tablet computer the users laptop computer or the mobile device of a person inside the vehicle. In one embodiment data from the local devices can be synchronized locally to the display of the vehicle in selected regions. These selected regions of the display can be defined by the user during customization or can be defined automatically by the system based on sizing areas on the display relative to other applications or features displayed on the one or more displays of the vehicle.

Also noted is that the system can automatically arrange or move certain applications or components on the display depending on size constraints or other features that are synchronized with system settings. In operation the user can be provided with tools to enable preview of the user interface and allow for modifications from time to time. The customization can then be saved to the user profile or user account in operation . In operation the custom configuration can then be transferred to the UI settings of the vehicle to allow for display in accordance with the arrangement configuration selection of applications configuration and rules enforced by the vehicle manufacturer to enable safety and use of the applications and features.

As shown in various ones of applications can be located in different locations of a display screen. Although the display and features of the display are described as being applications the icons can represent access to the applications and the icons can expand to encompass the entire screen or part of the screen at various times of use. In one embodiment the user can customize the display directly from the display by selecting more apps can view different screens by selecting a next screen can access system applications can access the phone can provide for other customizations and layouts can update the profile. As noted earlier the custom configuration can be set for a particular user.

When the user is not using the vehicle the custom configuration can be turned off or locked out for another session. Once the user wants to start a new session the user can log back in and the custom configuration returns. In other embodiments the custom configuration will automatically turn off when the user is not driving the vehicle or has not logged into the vehicle. In other embodiments the custom configuration can be automatically turned on when the user is detected. The user can be detected using biometrics login credentials image detection of the face fingerprint detection retina scans etc. Still further the custom configuration can be transferred to other vehicles.

If the user wishes to use his or her custom configuration in another vehicle the user can login to the custom configuration or user account from another vehicle. If the other vehicle does not have all the system components needed to define the custom configuration the custom configuration can be supplemented with other similar components automatically. In other embodiments the custom configuration can be transferred from one vehicle to another or when the user buys a new vehicle. In another embodiment the custom configuration can be adjusted based on the driver. The custom configuration can also be preset remotely from the Internet using the cloud services. The custom configuration can also be configured to provide limited use of certain systems or the vehicle such as when a guest is driving the vehicle. In other embodiments restrictions can be placed on the vehicle speed location of driving and automatic notifications for the user or the master user of the vehicle. The master user of the vehicle can have a master account with administrator credentials.

In still another embodiment the vehicle can be loaned to a child of driving age under 21 18 years of age and the child can be provided with restricted use of the vehicle. When the child exceeds or does not follow the restrictions of the vehicle automatic notifications can be provided to the user that is the administrator of the vehicle. The notifications can be by cell phone smartphone tablet computer mobile device text messages phone calls commendations of phone calls and text audio messages audible sounds vibrations and commendations thereof. History use of the vehicle can also be maintained in cloud services. The history use can provide the user with information as to where the vehicle has been the speed or events violations that occurred when use of the vehicle etc. The configuration can also provide messages to the driver warning the driver of when the vehicle has exceeded a restriction or is approaching a restriction in use driving area speed etc.

In operation the method provides controls to enable user input to select systems and placement of control interfaces on screen views or pages of screen displays. The screen displays can have various configurations placements sizes number of pages tabs etc. and the user can provide controls for some or all of the interfaces and controls in certain locations. In operation selection can be enabled for third party applications. The third party applications can be selected from the vehicle site or by providing links to third party sites. The third party applications can be pre identified by the site and displayed to the user if they are compatible with the particular vehicle selected. In another embodiment the third party applications can all be shown to the user whether or not they are compatible with the vehicle. Upon binding pairing or attempting to find application for the vehicle compliance as to whether the applications operate or comply with the particular vehicle can be made.

As mentioned in this disclosure certain third party applications can be reviewed by the vehicle site administrators before they are made available to users for selection. In other embodiments the third party applications can be approved or disapproved. In still other embodiments the third party applications can be augmented with restrictions made by the vehicle manufacturer or dictated by law. The restrictions can be applied based on the anticipated interfacing with the vehicle interfaces to ensure safety during driving. For instance if a particular application requires entry of text navigation of controls or other activities that would distract the driver during operation of the vehicle such vehicle controls or application controls for application interfaces can be temporarily disabled. In some embodiments when the vehicle has come to a stop or is place to park certain controls or interfaces can be re enabled. In operation the tools provided by the vehicle site or third party site can provide for customization of the layout of the display screens of the user interface.

The customization can include organizing or laying out system interfaces as well as application interfaces such as those interfaces provided by 3rd parties. In operation interface rules are applied to determine if the system interfaces can be replaced with third party application interfaces while providing access to the control interfaces via the APIs of the systems. For example if the user wants to provide a custom speed indicator the speed indicator must be compliant via APIs and or mapping with the system interfaces so that the speed readings can be populated to the third party application. In operation rules can be integrated with or applied to the applications and system user interfaces for when the vehicle is moving. As mentioned above such rules can limit interactivity with certain user interfaces while the vehicle is moving to prevent unsafe driving. In operation the custom user interface is saved to the user profile.

The user profile may contain settings such as selections of the user interface components associated with the system of the vehicle as well as user interface is provided by third party applications. In addition the user profile can contain and store settings provided by the user. The settings provided by the user as mentioned is this disclosure can also be learned settings based on use. The settings can further include remote access settings as well as settings allow the user to control vehicle components from a remote location or a remote computer. The setting can also include providing access to the user account to view historical driving patterns recent driving activities the performance of the vehicle during specific driving sessions the performance of specific vehicle components etc.

In operation the custom user interface configuration can then be transferred to the vehicle. The custom configuration as mentioned above is stored in the database of the vehicle manufacturer or a database held by a 3rd party that cooperates with the vehicle manufacturer to provide cloud services. The database in one embodiment is a network accessible storage which allows access to the user to program and modify the user interface using any computer or device having access to the Internet including the vehicle itself or a third party vehicle. The method then proceeds to operation where the custom user interface can be activated in managed for Internet connectivity for components of the custom interface. For example the vehicle s Internet access protocols can be set or registered with an Internet provider or service provider for the cloud services. The service provider for the cloud services can be the vehicle manufacturer a company cooperating with the vehicle manufacturer a third party company or combinations thereof.

In operation the method can also enable local communication with mobile devices that may be in the vehicle. The enablement may be provided by allowing synchronization with the computing system of the vehicle or with the computing communications of the portable device. For example the local communication can be paired automatically based on a preset pairing process where pairing keys are entered. This provides for automatic settings and synchronization when the user enters the vehicle with the portal device. As mentioned above user interfaces associated with applications loaded on the user s portal device can also synchronize to the display screens of the vehicle as predefined by the user.

Accordingly the disclosed methods may allow users to add various vehicles to the user profile including cars from different brands such as Brand X and brand Y. In the illustrated example the user profile for the user may include custom user settings custom interface styles custom applications and other custom settings and learned settings as described in this disclosure.

The users also able to select various applications from an application database which may provide a plurality of applications from vehicle manufacturers and the user can select applications for the vehicle types selected. In one embodiment certain applications can include native vehicle functions as well as control and mapping protocols to allow the applications to interface with native system controls through appropriate map APIs. In operation the custom user interface can be generated using cloud processing with the preferences set by the user the applications the native vehicle controls and the customer arrangements. The profile that was generated can then be synchronized to the vehicle such as car A.

The synchronization may include downloading of the customized interface from cloud services to the vehicle. In other embodiments part or all of the customization created on the portable device or other computer can be transferred to the vehicle directly without requiring transfer from cloud processing. In other embodiments the synchronization or transfers can include operations performed by portable devices local to the vehicle computing devices on the vehicle computing devices of cloud processing or combinations thereof.

Charge grid load data can also be collected for example for electric vehicle data. Charge grid load can obtain data from a grid power demand source which can include power companies local utilities and the like. Route based discounts can also be provided to the user by collecting mapping data as well as discounts provided by goods and services providers in the marketplace. Mapping data can also be managed to monitor the location of the vehicle in relation to goods and services that may be provided when the vehicle is in proximity In some embodiments discount data advertisements sales goods and services offers etc. can be provided to the user automatically based on the vehicle s location.

In other embodiments the user can provide settings in the user interface that identifies which type of offers or discounts or information the user wishes to receive. In some embodiments alerts regarding offers and discounts can be provided to the user in an audio manner to avoid driving distractions. Live traffic data can also be provided to the data manager as well as geo data . The data manager is in communication with cloud services to provide these services to computer smart devices remote location and a display of the vehicle .

The display the vehicle can be interfaced with logic that runs on vehicle electronics. The vehicle of products can include memory and processors that execute instructions operating systems API processing application management telecommunications network accessing local communication with wireless devices and general communication with the Internet. Route request can also be provided at the demand of the user via the display and instant routing can provide routes to the user based on data collected and managed by data manager .

Each input will then trigger manipulation of the system s model portion of the APP software paradigm thus invoking stored routines within APPS which then in turn interact with the vehicle s API system built upon the vehicle s operating system . Depending on the app presented to the user the input may trigger stored routines or functions on APP software or operating system level restricted stored routines or functions.

After the processing of stored procedure code is manipulated with arguments provided by the controller inputs visual and or sensory results are presented to the user in the view portion of the model view controller paradigm. These sensory outputs data streams electrical signals may all be translated as additional options results dynamic updating audio or visual graphical user interface changes on any of the user s connected display devices. The user will notice these results visually or audibly but may also feel or detect changes in the vehicle s mechanical systems. Updates from the model may also be used to toggle vehicle settings which in turn may invoke changes in the vehicle s physical mechanical and electrical systems .

Finally the system controller may receive additional updates from the vehicle systems affected or additional user cloud services vehicle systems feedback inputs to re engage the user in a cyclical fashion. If no inputs are sensed the system s controller will continue to poll its electrical and data I O systems for input on a continuous basis.

The model view controller paradigm described is one example of the software input output lifecycle that may be used to invoke manipulate process update portions of computer readable code such as APPS using an intermediary API to communicate with the vehicle s operating system . However APPS may be run on physically wired wirelessly connected or remote devices having processing abilities to translate the computer readable code in APPS into actionable invocations on one or more vehicles in order to facilitate or utilize the vehicle s electrical and mechanical systems in prescribed or customizable fashions.

In this example the vehicle computer has the ability to transmit receive and process information using wired or wireless connections. One such wireless connection is provided by a wireless data sending and receiving antenna connected to a network interface useful for pairing with and communicating data with portable or stationary wireless devices which may or may not be part of a network . Such wireless devices include but are not limited to wireless displays portable smart phones portable computers and even stationary objects structures buildings toll bridges other vehicles etc. The vehicle s network interface through antenna may also communicate with cloud services to receive instructions from a remote location that invokes stored programs such as APPs on the vehicle s computer. The vehicle may also send and receive data wirelessly in order to establish a connection with a peer to peer ad hoc network. Invocations may result in output data streams interpreted by wireless devices as well as wired devices such as wired displays or vehicle integrated display devices such as windshield heads up projected display or integrated glass displays . All data streams generated by APPs stored on the vehicle s computer may also be triggered by wired devices such as vehicle sensors vehicle electrical systems vehicle electrical systems engine control systems vehicle diagnostics systems user input as well as environmental input.

A user and or vehicle may find system useful in one example where the user drives the vehicle past an electronic toll bridge where a fee is required to pass the toll bridge. The vehicle s computer will communicate wirelessly as it passes the stationary structure transmitting and receiving information with it as it drives by. The user s vehicle may have an APP installed on the vehicle computer that can process the input using the computer s wireless antenna network interface input output system automatically responding to the toll bridge with payment information. Once the payment is received and processed the APP receives information from the stationary wireless toll taking device which is then stored either locally on the vehicle s storage or remotely using cloud services . The results of the transaction are then sent via data stream from the compute code running on the APP to a display device s where the user can visually confirm that the toll was paid accepted and show the user s remaining balance all through the GUI displayed for APP .

In this example of an API computer readable code is arranged in such a fashion that the type of API is described and in this case an API that allows third party control of the vehicle s HAVC system is declared. A declaration may be useful for reserving the vehicle s computer long term and short term memory in order to run stored procedures. The shown declaration describes an example set of data that may reference memory locations and their contents. The contents of these memory location may be modified by stored procedures or functions.

This HVAC API has the ability to store data relating to the vehicle s temperature status target temperature split zone temperate data from electrical and mechanical sensors calendar dates error information among others. Invocable functions are the methods by which a third party APP may manipulate data on board a computer. Free access is not given to the restricted data on a vehicle s computer thus a structured method or methods are described for user by third party APP developers. These functions that may or may not take arguments in order to execute may include functions in the example HVAC API that update temperatures for both the left and right or given zones of the vehicle toggle are conditioning allow visual skins on the APP GUI manipulate schedules and displays etc. The HVAC API described is one example of how one API can control one vehicle system. There may be variations of the APIs for multiple vehicle systems or one superset API that allows access to all of the vehicle s systems through stored procedures or methods.

A remote action to invoke change on an APP may be initiated via a network and pass to the APP running on the vehicle using the vehicle s antenna or wired interface. An APP running virtually on a network or cloud services may also take input remotely and process the results accordingly. Some of the inputs and results that an APP can take and produce locally or remotely include but are note limited to the set that can receive an action react to an action control an action manipulate data models report changes to a view or GUI record events or incidents learn the types of requests being submitted learn the times of request being submitted over time learn the days of the year the requests are being submitted over time generalize and interpret requests assume user intent in order to automatically invoke changes automatically and pre emptively act on behalf of a user fine tune learned user behavior etc.

The learned behavior e.g. learned settings that provide for automatic programming can be assigned to particular applications particular sub features of applications to particular native system features of the vehicle or combination of one or more thereof. The learned settings can also be managed via an interface which shows to the user settings that have been learned and provides the user with options to modify learned settings. The modifications of the learned settings can be made via the vehicle display or any other device having access to cloud services. The learned settings can also be communicated to the user via notifications. Such as We noticed you like your truck temperature at 3 pm to be 60 degrees Please confirm or We noticed you like your car temperature at 8 am to be 75 degrees this will be preset for you automatically or We have detected your favorite settings please login to your account to see settings we have programmed for you or make updates or other similar notifications via the vehicle or to any connected device over the Internet.

In other cases notifications may not be sent. In some cases the settings will just occur automatically. In some cases the settings can be manually adjusted by the user way from the auto settings. In such cases the manual setting can be learned and can be provided more weighting since the user took the time to correct an auto setting. Thus various levels of weighting or importance can be given to learned settings.

This decision and action engine has the ability to execute on what the assumption and reasoning logic module has determined needs to be done. The decision and action engine has the ability to produce alerts both local on screen audibly visually or remotely on a remote display device using a data network. The decision and action engine also has the ability to change vehicle controls automatically on behalf of a user without user action based on assumptions made by the assumption and reasoning logic module . Additionally the decision and action engine has the ability to request a decision from the user preemptively in order to change vehicle controls.

This may be achieved locally or remotely requiring input from a user to proceed. For instance the assumption and reasoning logic engine has determined that the user may want to have his or her car automatically started at 7 55 am because the user typically starts the car at 8 am. Starting the car at five minutes early will allow the system to heat the vehicle to the user s typical liking. However the assumption and reasoning logic may have only reached a level of confidence of 75 where 80 confidence is required to act without user input. Thus the system being only 75 sure that the car should be turned on will automatically send the user an alert requesting a decision on whether or not to turn the vehicle on. Once the user provides an decision remotely on their remote device the decision engine updates the assumption module so that it can augment it s assumptions for an updated level of confidence on the next action trigger. These actions by the user automatically and continually update the assumption and reasoning logic module in order to fine tune the level of confidence on acting without user input and learn the user s behavior for future decisions.

For instance if the system had determined that the user typically starts his vehicle at 8 am but the user s calendar shows a meeting at 730 am located at a location that does not match the current location the vehicle may assume that the car should be started at 725. They system will determine its level of confidence of the decision and may poll the user for a decision.

The system by using prior data points has stored assumptions based on conditions the day it is the temperature of the environment and historical events that the user will most likely start the vehicle s engine between 803 am and 805 am and if the temperature is in the 30 s inside the vehicle the user will most likely set the interior temperature to between 70 and 80 degrees it is not likely that the user will use the are conditioning unit if there is ice on the windshield the user will most likely defrost the windshield for 7 minutes before departure the user usually drives between 15 and 18 miles at this time of day the user typically starts the vehicle again in the afternoon between 505 pm and 510 pm if the temperature is in the mid 70 s the user usually activates the AC and sets the temperature to 65 degrees typical weekend behavior the user typically makes frequents stops does not have a set time the vehicle is started uses certain APPs at certain times and has a history of certain destinations as recorded by GPS.

In one embodiment the user the vehicle may log into the vehicle or be paired to the vehicle automatically so that a user account of the user provides the preferences of the user for displaying select information and communicating with cloud services . Cloud services can communicate with other Internet data sources and cloud applications of the user such as calendars appointment books reservations websites merchants mapping applications discount providing applications charge location services payment services parking services vehicle avoidance services etc.

Continuing with the example of the user interface provided in the main dashboard in front of the steering wheel has been rendered for the user account of the user in accordance with the user s interaction mode selection. As will be described below the interaction mode selection will allow the user to either custom configure or select from custom configurations the type of information that would be rendered on the displays of the vehicle or provided via audio output of the vehicle. In this example the interaction mode for the user account is one that has been selected to reduce the amount of clutter provided in the main dashboard interface.

As used herein dashboard clutter or display clutter refers to when too many gauges icons information GUIs meters text pop ups colors designs animations etc. are rendered on the displays and which may cause distraction while the user is driving. Reducing the amount of clutter is an important feature for vehicles that provide interactive displays that can populate so much information that a driver may become distracted. In some embodiments the amount of information provided to the displays can be dynamically changed based on the condition of the driving or non driving of the vehicle. For instance if the vehicle is not being driven more information can be rendered on the displays for the user.

If the vehicle is parked or at a stop sign or stop light more information may be rendered on the displays. When the vehicle is operationally moving less information would be rendered on the displays so that clutter can be reduced. In one embodiment more or less information or icons or gauges may be displayed or shown on the displays in a fade in and fade out fashion so that the instant appearance of gauges will not be distracting sight for the driver. In one embodiment when reduce clutter displays are provided basic gauges for operating the vehicle or required by law will be required to stay viewable in the displays while the vehicle is being driven or is in operation. For example a speedometer gauge is required or is vital to the driving of the vehicle and therefore such gauges would not be removed or not shown when reduce clutter displays are selected.

In one embodiment the information that is provided on the displays can be dynamically set based on the context of the vehicle s state the users calendars the weather and other factors. In one example the fuel gauge shown in the main dashboard display of the vehicle in is shown to include a fuel gauge. The fuel gauge in this example is shown to have appeared on the dashboard display because the vehicle s state is that the fuel is low and requires refueling. In one embodiment the vehicle computer can be communicating with cloud services which will automatically identify information regarding available fueling stations nearby.

For example one of the displays of the vehicle shown in illustrates that contextual information can be provided as a recommendation which identifies that a gas station is within 0.25 miles of the current location of the vehicle. In addition a mapping service or map program of the vehicle can be automatically displayed on one of the displays of the vehicle showing the location of the gas station e.g. Ted s Gas . Accordingly the information being displayed on the vehicle is contextually related to the state of the vehicle the location of the vehicle and applications are automatically loaded and provided for generating information relevant to the vehicle and its state.

In this example the type of information that is surfaced to displays of the vehicle can depend on the context of information associated with the user who is logged into the vehicle by way of a user account that is connectable to cloud services . In this example certain information can be examined to determine what type of contextual recommendation can be provided to the user and what type of contextual information can be provided based on learned behavior of the user which provides a prediction of the type of information that may be most relevant to the user in the particular context.

In another example contextual information that may be viewed may include them on a fuel that remains in the vehicle at the particular time which is a state of the vehicle among many different types of states of the vehicle the day of the week whether the day of the week of the holiday information from the personal calendar historical travel times during the time of day the time of day loyalty cards that the user may hold or like traffic information associated to the current geo location of the vehicle the current weather learned past behavior when the user likes to stop for coffee nearby coffee shops coffee shops being a learned type of good liked by the user discounts located nearby discounts located nearby other services that are needed at a particular point in time and other factors.

These contextual types of information associated with the user the vehicle the number of passengers in the vehicle at the time the user s calendar the users likes the users past interactions the predictions of what the user wishes to see or may want etc. are only but a few examples and are shown without limitation.

Continuing with the example of based on the contextual information obtained by the vehicle computer from cloud services and from information stored in the vehicle computer or obtained from a computing device of the user determinations can be made as to the type of contextual recommendation that may be surfaced to a display screen of the vehicle.

It should be understood that surfacing too much information can cause distraction while driving so therefore only contextually relevant information that is predicted to be needed or wanted at a particular point in time should be displayed as a contextual recommendation. It is believed that the information that is automatically being contextually provided to the user on the displays is information that would have been searched for by the driver.

Thus by providing the intelligence surfacing of contextual information to displays and or audio outputs of the vehicle less distraction will occur because the driver will not need to interact with user interfaces but instead the information will be provided to the driver just as the driver will need the information. For example the drivers being provided with information to the closest Chevron station which is 0.45 miles away from the current location a map to the Chevron station is shown and a coffee coupon is also shown on the display.

The coffee coupon is provided to the user because the coffee shop is located near the Chevron and the user typically purchases coffee during this particular point in time and the coffee shop is next to the Chevron where the user will likely wish to purchase gas based on his ownership of loyalty cards for Chevron. As such this information has been provided to the user at time when the user would want or need the information which cuts down in screen clutter and also reduces distracted driving.

As shown an RPM revolutions per minute gauge may surface gradually on the main dashboard display when it is determined that the vehicle s RPMs are too high. The gradual surfacing in one embodiment allows for reduced distraction of the driver. This is because fast surfacing of gauges or icons on the display screen may distract the driver to look down and away from the road. However when the gauges are surfaced in a fade in from light gray to full color or contrast the driver will notice the newly surfaced information gauge when the driver next looks down at the gauge.

In the example of it is also shown that the contextual information regarding the user the vehicle the geo location of the vehicle the time of day the day of the week and information found in the user s online calendars and to do lists can be mined to provided contextual recommendations. As shown as the vehicle is communicating with cloud services contextual information can be provided to the vehicle display s . The contextual information at the particular time of day and when the user is driving or activating the vehicle is provided when the user is likely going to need the information.

For instance the to do list shows that the user needs a hammer and other things and because the user is near a store that sells hammers that information can be provided to the user. The information is provided or surfaced to the user by presenting it on a display after cloud processing determines that other contextual parameters suggest that the user would be interested in a particular good or service e.g. in this example a hammer at that particular time of day and day and particular geo location. In addition learning systems also can determine that the user usually likes discounts so special discounts can be automatically searched for from various online and off line retailers and the discount or coupon can be surfaced to the vehicle display at the time the contextual information is provided to the user.

As shown in addition to presenting the distance to the user providing a map to the store location the discount is presented on the display. The discount can be provided for use by the user in various ways. In some examples the discount can be automatically sent to user s device e.g. smartphone tablet watch etc. . The discount can be in the form of a digital coupon a code a link or some other identifiable form. In still another example the coupon can be provided to the user when the user selects it on one of the displays of the vehicle. The coupon can then be transferred to the user s device or can be sent to the retailer with the user s account info so when the user arrives at the store the coupon is automatically credited or can be sent from the server directly to the user s device.

The low clutter selection e.g. selectable as an interaction mode is configured to present very few icons or gauges such as those that may be required for vehicle operation. In the illustrated drawing the main gauge that is shown is the speed gauge and an optional digital read out of the speed. As the user drives around or uses the vehicle it turns out that the user s calendar determines that an appointment call needs to be made. This determination can be made by reference to the user s online calendar or calendar on a device that is shared with the vehicle. The appointment to call is for example Call Ted. 

At the time the appointment time arrived the user was listening to music but if the vehicle computer server determines that the call should be suggested the vehicle display can change to show Calling . . . Ted. Also or alternatively the main dash of the vehicle can show an icon that is surfaced gradually to the display which may be an indicator of an audio interface. The audio interface can for example as the user if he wishes to call Ted and the user can simply answer by voice input. The voice input can then trigger the activation of the call for the user. Still further other parameters in addition to the calendar can be analyzed to determine that the context is appropriate for surfacing the question to the user.

The analysis can include for instance processing the information associated with the current context of the user the vehicle the current time of day week historical data weather discounts service data etc. Over time based on the selections choices of interfacing what was selected and when what was selected when the vehicle was a particular geo locations what was selected and how many people were in the vehicle with the user selections or preferences made by passengers of the vehicle and other data. This data is mined to find overlapping intersections in data and to apply rules and assumptions that form learned data and patterns. This learned data and patterns are used to build a learning database that can grow to include richer data over time and can assist in providing intelligent contextual data for display on the displays of the vehicle or for audio output to the vehicle.

It is believed that by providing users with information they need they will spend less time making raw user interface selections e.g. requiring one or more inputs taps touches swipes navigations launching of apps selection menus inputs etc. which may increase distraction. In one specific example data from a user s online data sources can be mined to provide information the user needs and contextually when needed.

For instance if the user s email shows that the user has booked airline tickets and the time of departure is within 2 hours the user may be provided with a map to the airport may be provided with online checking interfaces for voice entry may provide rental car check in or return information etc. Thus based on the context of what the user is doing what the user has planned when the user has done in the past e.g. learning certain information can be surfaced for consumption by the user. The result is less distracted driving and efficient usage of the user s time.

In one embodiment traffic data is obtained when the system determines that the user would likely be checking traffic information. This may be triggered when for example the user appears to be taking longer to drive home after work than normal or the driver is driving slower than a current speed limit of a road or a traffic accident is identified ahead or based on learned use e.g. the user typically checks traffic at 5 pm on a workday etc. .

In the displays are shown to be populated with information obtained by cloud services or obtained by the vehicle or obtained by a device of the user in the vehicle or combinations of two or more thereof . The system may alert the user that an accident is up ahead. The user based on account information e.g. history of user propensity or likelihood may usually select to re route so the system automatically provides a re route in the map on the display. If the user s shows that the user does not have appointments or is not urgently needing to arrive at the destination the system may not provide a re route option if the extra distance is more than the user likes to drive. Other contextual information can be mined including a learned profile of the user which shows what the user likes does prefers has done over time as a pattern etc.

Alternatively the information can be displayed in a heads up display on the windshield of the vehicle e.g. as overlaid or non overlaid text or icons or graphics videos or combinations which reduce distraction of the driver. Continuing with other displays also show contextually relevant information such as the range remaining for the EV coupons for coffee near the charge locations the price of charge the option to buy ahead of arriving buying to reserve the EV charging spot etc. As noted above the contextual information is processed by parsing data obtained over the internet data obtained from the user s history profile data obtained from learned preferences or habits. In some embodiments the history profile can itself include learned preferences of the user by way of the user s account.

Because people vary in preferences widely the example of providing different types of interaction modes for particular vehicle will simplify selection by users so that the interaction mode best fits their desired use or intended use of the vehicle. Some people are more technology savvy while others wish to avoid technology altogether or at a reduced consumption rate. In the example shown various modes can be provided. Although five modes are provided as an example more or less modes can be provided depending on the design or implementation.

The example modes include an intelligent mode a simple mode a senior mode and informed modes an auto mode etc. These modes identify the type of interactivity or the weighted the user wishes to identify interaction with his or her vehicle. As noted herein the modes can be assigned to the vehicle for when the user is present in the vehicle and need not be tied to the specific vehicle. For example if a user account has identified the type of mode they wish that operate one or more vehicles that mode can be transferred to a specific vehicle for a period of time. For instance a user may wish to operate a shared vehicle and the mode in the users account can be transferred to the shared vehicle.

The user may wish to transfer the interaction mode to a rental car. The user may wish to transfer the interaction mode or activate the interaction mode on a personal vehicle only one that particular user is the driver. In other embodiments a vehicle can transfer between one interaction mode or another interaction mode based on user input. In some embodiments the user may choose to utilize a wizard which will allow the user to his or her type of descriptive behaviors liked or disliked when operating a vehicle.

These behaviors are descriptive and need not be specific to an actual setting. Once the descriptive behaviors are selected by a user the wizard can identify a specific type of interaction mode which will then apply a plurality of settings for the interaction mode.

In other embodiments the user may wish to receive messages less frequently so that less distraction is occurring yet the user is receiving messages using intelligent mode. Furthermore the user can select to learn the user s behavior over time as an express setting. The user can also select to expressly limit learning by the system of the user s behavior and relied on the settings provided by the mode.

The clutter setting may allow the user to reduce the clutter provided to the displays of the vehicle. For instance the display may be made more simple the display may include less graphics the display may include a simple background the displays may include analog dials as opposed to digital readouts or the like. Further the simple mode can also allow user to customize the types of skins provided to the displays and provide previews of the skins. The skins are essentially graphics that are provided to the display screen which can include a theme colors text text format GUI formats gauge formats etc.

Continuing with the example the settings can also allow for audio output audio instructions voice communication to be adjusted so that the pace of speech and volume can be amplified. For example a setting can be provided to make the vehicle speech commands interface voice input to be slower and louder. The menus can also be simplified to be very simple or simply simple. Thus menus that do not require output for user to operate a vehicle may not be displayed in the senior mode yet basic operational displays of the vehicle can be displayed or provided under this senior mode. Still further other selections can include provide very basic skins normal skins advanced senior skins etc. Previews of the selected skins can also be provided before implementation.

In informed mode the user can also identify the type of information received from the Internet and the timing associated with getting streamed data. The stream data can also include mapping data suggestions data parking data navigation data traffic data weather data etc. Settings can also be set to adjust the menus so as to provide more than settings more digital displays more icons or gauges etc. In this setting the different skins can also be selected such as a social skin a techie skin or more customized skins. In further embodiments learning can be used to adjust the various settings over time once the particular mode has been selected.

These settings can also be previewed so that the user can see what the settings look like. In one embodiment the settings will change over time based on the interaction and the learning. Still further certain skins can be provided that are location relevant time relevant profile relevant etc. Again the skins can define the user interface look and feel the gauges the displays the text the colors the theme etc.

In this particular example the computer has determined that based on the descriptive entries provided by the user senior mode is the best mode to apply. The user can then choose to apply or go back and retry to identify a specific interaction mode or elect to modify a specific mode features of a mode enable learning for mode for automatic changes etc.

In one embodiment the supplemental information is filtered to provide even more custom tailored select supplemental content. For instance even though the user may need gasoline the user may prefer another type of gas than that immediately available. Further even though the user prefers coffee and purchases coffee often at 8 am on a weekday that particular weekday the user may be heading to a client meeting and the driver appears to be late. Consequently a coffee coupon or location information may not be provided as this supplemental content is not useful to the driver and may only serve as a distraction. In the illustrated example flow of operation includes receiving geo locations of a vehicle over time at a server configured to execute cloud services.

The cloud services may be operated by one or more entities public entities private entities entities such as vehicle makers entities such as vehicle service provider entities. These entities may operation with one or more servers. The servers can be individual servers groups of servers services distributed geo graphically for load balance or improved quality of service QoS servers operated by cloud services virtualized servers and storage and combinations thereof. Other examples can include processing performed by the servers and some processing by the vehicle computer or devices of the user. In still other examples apps of the vehicle can communicate with cloud services using user accounts which provide access to the user s history and profile.

In operation the system will access the profile of the of the user to identify various data including to identify a history of use of the vehicle of the user e.g. the vehicle that is registered to the user s profile . In some embodiments no vehicle is pre associated to the user account or profile which allows for dynamic transfer of the user s account to any vehicle the user steps into and syncs with. Thus when the user access the profile from any vehicle having access to or providing access to cloud services the custom services of the user can be used on the currently driven or used vehicle.

In this manner the vehicle is not actually associated to a user but instead the user s profile or account is associated to the vehicle for a period of time the vehicle is driven by the user. In one embodiment the profile can also be used on rental cars or other vehicles that are used for short periods of time or on cars that are loaned out by others for use.

In operation from time to time the system generates a plurality of learned preferences that are associated to the profile of the user. This association can occur by for example by examining the history of use of the vehicle or use by the user on other vehicles . The learned preferences can change over time as the user s preferences change or user input selections made change over time and based on the particular contextually related circumstances of when the changes or inputs were made. Thus the learned preferences can in some examples change periodically when enough data is collected to create and define a preference with a threshold level of certainty.

In operation the system identifies supplemental content for display on the user interface of the vehicle for a current geographic location and for a current time. As noted above the supplemental content can include information that can be displayed on a screen of the vehicle. The information can also be output by voice and the user may interface via voice input or combinations of voice input and physical input e.g. touch a screen icon turn a button toggle a button press a button slide rolling item shift a lever rotate a knob etc. .

In operation the system e.g. server can filter the supplemental content to produce or leave select supplemental content for display on the user interface of the vehicle for the user. The filtering can be done for example based on the plurality of learned preferences for the user. As noted above the filtering is done to cull out information that the user is known not to need or want or cull out information that is not appropriate for the time of day or week or cull out information that is conflicting with the user s schedules or cull out information that would conflict with the user s more preferred likes or dislikes.

Further the culling of supplemental content can also changes over time as the driver moves around and the geo location changes. For example if the user s favorite fueling station is nearby at 8 15 am and the vehicle needs fuel but still has enough to driver another 90 miles but the user needs to take a conference call from 8 15 8 30 am the system will not surface e.g. cull so this supplemental content is no provided to a display or audio output information regarding the nearby fueling station. Instead the vehicle will surface and notify the user of the conference call and or show the option for another fueling station that is along the path or near the destination.

In another embodiment the identification of supplemental content in operation and the filtering operation of may be processed together in one processing operation. That is the selection of the supplemental content can itself include the culling for the user and the user s profile so as to avoid additional or secondary processing. In still other embodiments some users may wish to explore outside of their profile and the user may select to receive 10 of the supplemental content outside of his or her profile. This provides a controllable amount of supplemental content that can be surfaced to the user over time. If the user likes the supplemental content the user s profile can be adjusted by the learning of preferences selections and or inputs over time.

In operation the server sends the select supplemental content to the vehicle over a wireless network. The select supplemental content is configured for display on the user interface of the vehicle. The user interface as described above can be any screen of a vehicle including screens interfaces on buttons toggles dials sliders etc. The different screens on buttons can show different or customized information depending on the mode selected.

Thus the same knob for instance can provide different functions when it is turned or touched depending on the mode. As noted above the user s profile can also be augmented or controlled for display of information in various formats such as intelligent mode simple mode easy senior mode informed mode and custom modes selected by the user learned over time or recommended by the computer let the computer decide option .

In operation data for display of the plurality of preferences associated with interacting with and receiving information from user interface systems of the vehicle is provided. In this embodiment preferences associated with the types of display items and types of information the user wishes to see or rendered on the displays screens can be provided. This information can be provided in the form of user interface inputs table selections typed in selections radio button selections selection lists grid data input voice input or any type of input method that can be captured by a computer or combinations of two or more thereof.

At this point selections of at least two of the plurality of preferences can be received at the user interface in operation . At least two selections are useful to receive so that proper determinations of the type of interaction modes that are available to the user can be selected. Alternatively if the user already knows the interaction mode he or she desires the selection can simply be one selection of an interaction mode instead of selecting two or more preferences which are used to identify an interaction mode.

In operation and interaction mode is determined for the vehicle user account based on the received selections. The interaction mode may define a number of information items to be displayed on a screen of the vehicle. Additionally the interaction mode can identify the intensity of interactive notifications to be received at the vehicle for display on the screen of the vehicle. For example more intensity can eat equate to more information being displayed or notifications provided to the vehicle. Less intensity can be fewer notifications or information provided to the one or more displays of the vehicle.

The interaction mode in one embodiment will define the number of interactions that would be provided to the user. If over time the user wishes additional notifications sent to the vehicle the user may customize the interaction mode. In another embodiment the user can simply choose a different interaction mode which may globally change the interaction mode and types of information items displayed and number of information items displayed as well as the intensity of interactive notifications.

In operation the configuration setting is sent to the vehicle. The configuration setting used to implement the interaction mode on the vehicle is data that is sent when the user account of the user is active on the vehicle. For example if the user accessing a particular vehicle wishes to implement his or her interaction mode on that vehicle the user account of that user will identify and interaction mode which can then be transferred to that specific vehicle. As noted above the interaction mode may be customized to the user account so that the interaction mode can be used in any number of vehicles the user wishes to operate. In other embodiments the interaction mode is programmed to a specific vehicle such that that vehicle holds the interaction mode programmed for continuous use.

In still other embodiments the interaction mode can be used in a specific vehicle for a period of time. The period of time can be for or uses of the vehicle for a week for a month for a day or any number of identifiable fractions of time. Still further the interaction mode can be automatically applied to a vehicle when a particular user is identified in the vehicle.

Identification of the user in a vehicle can be by way of having the user input his or her password or user ID into the vehicle electronics or user interfaces or screens. In still other embodiments identification of the user in a vehicle can be by way of biometric identification. The biometric identification can be by way of voice input voice ID retina scan finger print ID gesture ID or a combination of multiple biometric identification methods.

The descriptive ways of interacting with the vehicle can be by reference to that type of information the user wishes to receive the mood the user is in the familiarity that a user has with technology the degree of simplicity desired by a user easy user interfaces which may be useful to senior citizens operating a vehicle etc. Thus instead of providing a plurality of input settings a number of questions statements interactive preferences can be displayed or asked of the user verbally so that the user can answer a sequence of questions that can be used to then identify an interactive mode for the vehicle.

Thus this provides an easy way of interacting with the vehicle using natural language that does not require the user to expressly enter settings navigate user interfaces and the like which may be too technologically complex or uninteresting to certain users. In operation and interaction mode for the vehicle is determined based on the received selections. The interaction mode can be one of a preset number of modes. Each mode may define a plurality of settings to be made without requiring the express settings of the individual settings. In operation the configuration settings are sent to the vehicle.

As mentioned above sending configurations to the vehicle can be by wireless communication. The scent configurations can be set from a server that has access to the Internet for transmitting the data to the specific communication electronics of the vehicle which in turn allow for implementing the settings on the vehicle automatically or after the user has approved the input of the settings. In one embodiment the configuration settings are identified to be a best match of the interaction mode for the vehicle for the user and based on the preferences that are descriptive of the way the user wishes to interact with the vehicle.

The preferences are descriptive of a way of interacting with the vehicle instead of express individual settings. In operation the method includes determining and interaction mode for the vehicle based on the received selections. The interaction mode is one of a preset number of modes and each mode defines a plurality of settings to be made without requiring express settings for each of the plurality of settings. In operation the configuration settings are sent to the vehicle. The configuration settings are identified to be a best match for the interactive mode of the vehicle for the user account. In operation and over time the user will provide input settings or selections or interactions utilizing the initial or interaction mode identified or determined in operation .

In operation information associated with interactions made at the vehicle over time are received. The information identifies changes made to one or more the settings of the vehicle. In operation information associated with interactions made at the vehicle over time are received. The information identifies use of interactive items presented on the display of the vehicle. In operation the received input from operations and over time are provided for learning patterns of use of the interface items or changes for the user account. In operation recommendations to change the interaction mode or an aspect of the interaction mode of the vehicle is sent to the vehicle.

Information sent to the vehicle can be provided by way of one of the user interfaces or audio output text messages to a user s device e mail messages messages to the users online account or the like. In one embodiment operation may include receiving user input requesting changes to the interaction mode. The changes requested can be based on the recommendations provided to the user. For example the recommendation can be provided to the user suggesting that the user change the interaction mode from a simple mode to a complex mode or an intelligent mode or some other customized mode. In another embodiment the change to the interaction mode can simply be an adjustment to the selected or determine interaction mode.

For instance the initial interaction mode can remain selected yet one or more aspects of the interaction mode can be adjusted or changed to define a customized interaction mode for the user account in operation . In one embodiment once the customization has been defined the customization settings are sent to the vehicle for implementation. In one embodiment the changes in customization can occur on the vehicle itself and over time the customizations can be communicated to a server which then implement the changes for the user account. In this way the server and the vehicle can maintain a synchronized the interaction mode and changes made over time to either the vehicle or the modes in the user account.

In addition user interactions and input settings can also be communicated to cloud services . This information is communicated regarding user interactions such as inputs or settings is also tied to the geo location of the vehicle the time at which the settings were made the circumstances of when the changes were made the contextual relationship of circumstances to when settings are made or inputs are made and the like. As shown cloud services can include applications and logic and other components which are described above.

Additionally cloud service can include user accounts and databases. In some implementations cloud services can be operated by specific service provider or multiple service providers vehicle manufacturers vehicle service providers third parties or combinations thereof. Example communications by cloud services are shown without limitation. The example communications can be to geo location time of day data local events and news day of the week calendar data learn the preferences explicit preferences online calendars device calendars social media data etc.

This list of exemplary data and services should not be viewed as limited to the set of data but simply as an example of data can be accessed and process to identify contextual related supplemental content . In operation the interaction mode for the vehicle can be identified. The interaction mode can be the mode that s already selected for the vehicle and therefore the data that that vehicle is expecting will be in accordance with the interaction mode and it settings.

In operation select supplemental content can be sent to the displays of the vehicle or output via the audio system. As noted above the type of information such as the select supplemental content is tailored for the interaction mode selected for the vehicle as well as based on user interactions and the contextual relationship of those inputs to the time the geo location learned preferences and the like.

In accordance with one embodiment these physical inputs are configured to include one or more graphical screens which can change depending on the interaction mode selected for vehicle. For example the dial button use for air conditioning can be changed to a dial button use for the radio. In one further example a graphical screen can be defined over the button or physical input or beside or around the button or physical inputs.

Thus the user can identify what each button or control is capable of doing in the vehicle. In some examples some of the screens associated with physical inputs can be replaced with different icons or control identifiers. If the interaction mode is a senior mode the icons text controls can be magnified in size type or can be simplified. In some embodiments the buttons icons text and associated screens or displays for certain ones of the physical inputs can be set in accordance with the theme associated with the interaction mode or can be individually adjusted or changed without regard to interaction mode.

In the illustrated example of screens can be positioned in different locations to avoid the need to add additional buttons throughout the cockpit of a vehicle. In some examples the steering will can have screen displays that are easily touched or interfaced with to avoid distraction. Certain screens on the steering will can change for example to provide access to inputs that would normally be associated with physical inputs. In one embodiment fewer physical inputs are provided throughout the vehicle and are replaced with configurable screens that provide the functionality that would otherwise be required via the physical inputs.

This type of interactive display and control provided in vehicles can assist vehicle makers to provide fewer buttons that are physical and reduce the cost and weight of a vehicle. In one example the steering will may have configurable screen to allow the user to adjust the volume lock or unlock the phone change the music access menu items access the user s home ask for help change the dashboard style set the configuration mode and the like. As further shown one of the inputs can be to simply toggle between one or more interaction modes.

The interaction mode selected in the example of is simple. In one embodiment the interaction mode can be dynamically switched based on the user of the vehicle. In one embodiment the interaction mode can be associate to a profile that is maintained for a user and the profile can be used in different vehicles such that interaction modes can be automatically applied to different vehicles whether owned or used or shared or rented. In another embodiment features of the vehicle can be provided with sensors such as cup holder sensors.

In one embodiment a learning algorithm can be provided to determine if the user likes to cool or warm a beverage that may be positioned in the cup holder. For example if the time of day is morning and the cup in the cup holder is detected to have warm liquid or a warm temperature the cup holder can automatically turned on to maintain a substantially warm or hot temperature of the contents in the cup if heating features are provided . In another embodiment an analogous process can be performed to cool or maintain the cool temperature of liquid in a cup holder based upon the context of the learning. For example if it is determined to be a hot day and based on previous patterns of use the user has selected to keep cops cool in the cup holder s if cooling features are provided the system can automatically set the cup holder to maintain the cool temperature of the cup or its contents.

Still further other sensors in the vehicle such as presence sensors can identify whether more passengers or fewer passengers are inside a vehicle. Depending on temperature conditions outside and based on learning of previous patterns of the user who may have had passengers in the past it is possible that the temperature inside the vehicle is lowered 3 to 5 cooler than normal. This may be true because more vehicle passengers can raise the temperature of the cockpit which may require additional cooling. Still further the context of additional passengers can also detect whether additional passengers have their own devices in the vehicle and certain settings for those devices can be shared to those devices.

For example passengers may be able to connect to a Wi Fi or Internet connection provided by the vehicle. This connection can identify the other devices are contained or located within the vehicle. This information can be used to provide those specific devices access to certain controls of the vehicle. The controls provided can be based on learning associated with previous privileges granted by the primary user account in the vehicle which is typically the driver. For more information on sharing vehicle controls to user devices reference may be made to U.S. application Ser. No. 14 222 670 entitled Methods and Systems for Providing Access to Specific Vehicle Controls Functions Environment and Applications to Guests Passengers via Personal Mobile Devices which is incorporated herein by reference.

It should be understood that the physical inputs can take on various forms such as pushbuttons toggles sliders press in controls press out controls pull out controls twist controls shift controls etc. Continuing with the example for purposes of understanding the four physical input dials may be allowed to twist turn be pressed be pulled or selected. In accordance with one embodiment the physical inputs may also include a screen that provide the readout of the text shown in the examples. This text can be configured to change based on the interaction mode selected for the vehicle. In one embodiment a senior mode can be selected for the vehicle which may indicate that the dials should be maintained as simplified as possible and any text should be amplified or enlarged so that control and access is easier for older adults.

For example one button may simply indicate wipers the next button volume the next button tuning audio air conditioning and the like. As noted above more than four physical buttons provided with a hybrid display can be provided and this is only one example to convey the simplicity of configuring displays associated with physical inputs. In another example an intelligent mode may be selected for the vehicle which may dynamically change what is displayed on the physical inputs. The display the physical inputs can be a small LCD screen a touchscreen proximity non touch screen gesture input screens icons text combos of text and icons colors a screen typically used on a smart phone or the like.

Thus users can provide touch input to the buttons similar to the way touch input is provided on screens of a smart phone or a tablet. In addition the buttons can also be manipulated as physical inputs to provide an additional level of change input or interaction. In another example the interaction mode can be changed to provide for an informed mode. The informed mode can also again change was displayed on the faces or surfaces of the physical inputs.

Thus the physical control devices may be pressed tuned dialed touched on the display screen parts etc. In still another embodiment the display screens can be provided beside the physical inputs so that the screens are not on the buttons themselves. For example the surface beside underneath or above or below the physical inputs can include small screen that dynamically changes to identify what the physical inputs are provided to do. Thus based on the configuration provided to the physical inputs the content displayed on the physical inputs or beside or around the physical inputs can define what functionality those particular inputs can render for the vehicle. As such the dynamic adjustments and changes to the physical inputs of a vehicle can further assist in customizing the users feel and interaction with a particular vehicle.

This functionality provides a further dimension in customization for vehicles at certain drivers prefer less technology while others prefer more technology and others prefer simplified interfaces common in older vehicles. These customizations provide for less distraction to drivers and should improve safety as the interfaces are provided in a way that is most comfortable to the specific user.

Furthermore a senior mode can be provided with icons text language familiar to a specific user or demographic. Another example mode may be a fun mode which allows more customization to certain features. This customization can be very complex and can also be descriptive instead of in the form of express settings. The descriptive inputs can be translated to specific inputs by the computer. It should be understood that these particular settings can be predefined by the user either in the vehicle via a user device at a website or some other way that can be associate to a user account and a given profile of that account.

Learning can therefore take place over time for that specific profile. The user account may also be transferred from vehicle to vehicle if the vehicle supports application of interaction modes or application of certain settings saved in a profile of the user account. It should be understood that some vehicles may not have interaction mode capability but may allow customization of certain features automatically based on the user account.

This customization may allow for at least one or more features to be automatically transferred from one vehicle to another. In other more advanced vehicles more configuration modes are settings can be transferred or used in specific vehicles. Accordingly the amount of customization and dashboard transferability from vehicle to vehicle will vary from few to more features being configured or transferable depending on the manufacturer the software the systems integrated therein and the functionalities of the vehicle.

Embodiments are disclosed which enable processing of data captured from a multitude of data producing objects. In one embodiment data producing objects are associated with objects that relate to information places vehicles homes and environments associated with a user. For example a vehicle can have a multitude of objects that capture information from sensors receive input from users and change location overtime. Similarly users may associate specific location as home locations wherein they may spend more time than other places.

Home locations can include a person s home or work location or school location. At these home locations users can have access to various types of data producing objects such as lighting systems alarm systems camera systems motion sensors image sensors entertainment systems personal electronics personal monitors garden watering systems solar systems the energy grid and the like. A common thread between these data producing objects is their relationship to specific users and or associated user accounts.

In some embodiments intersections of relevance between disparate data produced by these data producing objects will yield new data that can provide useful assistance to a user. In specific examples users that operate vehicles must rely on data produced by the vehicle. Some of this data is more relevant at particular times than others such as speed information is more important when the vehicle is actively moving than when the vehicle is stopped. Other information such as entertainment options in a vehicle may be more important when the operation of the vehicle appears to be occurring during a time of normal driving as opposed to a time when abrupt driving maneuvers are taking place.

Additionally the status of one or more features of a home such as lighting heating and cooling water gardening entertainment functions energy consumption etc. will be more relevant or important when a user is at home or is heading home or is about to depart for a trip. Accordingly intersections of data occur when the context of a user location of the user time of day time of month user s calendar data user s current or past trip itineraries etc. and the context of the information producing objects meet that yield information that can be consumed by the user who indeed will find the information useful.

Intersections of data will occur often although in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the intersections of data are filtered based on learned patterns of individuals and only those intersections of data and the data that can be surfaced to the specific user will be surfaced. For example if data from a user s vehicle finds an intersection with data of a user s home e.g. a user is driving home and is estimated to arrive in 2 5 minutes and lighting is off in the driveway and it is dark outside the user may be asked if he or she wishes to have the driveway lights turned on. However if from prior use patterns it is determined that the user prefers to not turn on the driveway lights and instead prefers to only turn on the garage lights upon arriving then further surfacing of recommendations for turning on driveway lights will be avoided. In another example the user is driving to work and the user drives to work on weekdays between 7 am and 9 am and the heating or cooling system is not operating at work.

A determination can be made that the user is headed to work based on GPS or geo location information of the user s vehicle or user s connected devices. If the user proceeds to work and temperature is not comfortable to remain at work an inference or recommendation can be made to the user to opt to work from home. However if the user is in charge of operations of the office the user may not be provided with the recommendation because the user needs to attend to the problem. In one embodiment the decision of whether to recommend to a user to stay at home or not maybe me a result of learning the contextual relationship of the user. The contextual relationship is for example that the user is an operations person who must attend to the heating or cooling issue while for other users the contextual relationship to the intersection of the data information may suggest to stay at home as the office is not comfortable for work e.g. for professional office work.

In some embodiments a learning algorithm uses inferences from user s inputs over a period of time or can user blend the user s input with actual preference settings and or the learning algorithm may take input from the user and friends of the user or from inputs made by similar users such as users connected to one or more internet service sites e.g. social sites vehicle sites home automation sites home security sites vehicle service sites mapping sites shopping sites user recommendation sites crowed sourced sites etc. .

Methods for processing data streams to learn user preferences and suggest recommendations and or making proactive settings are provided. In some example methods the data measured and used over time can be analyzed identified correlated contextually analyzed and categorized by identifying entities that produce data. These Entities can be for example a home or a vehicle or some other thing or object. Each entity will include one or more Data Producing Objects DPOs or the entity may be a DPO. Each DPO can produce streams of data which can be identified as Data Units DUs . The DUs may produce a stream of data which may be continuous intermittent occasional produced in bursts or produced at different times of activity. Each data stream produced by a DU can be associated with one or more time slice TS identifier s .

In one implementation a plurality of entities may be associated with or made relevant to a specific user. For example an entity may be a person s home a person s car a person s work a person s regular grocery store a person s neighborhood a person s car service a person s school a person s online account a person s calendar a person s email a person s online storage a person s cloud account a person s favorite sports teams a person s social network a person s online profile or profiles a person s preferences etc.

For sake of illustration and without limitation examples will be provided in regard to two entities namely a person s vehicle i.e. Vehicle Entity and a person s home i.e. Home Entity .

Each entity may in turn be associated with data producing objects DPOs . In the example of a Vehicle Entity a DPO may include a speedometer a tire pressure sensor a heat sensor engine sensors electric vehicle EV battery sensors oil sensors seat sensors global positioning satellite GPS sensor s in vehicle entertainment settings application use and settings in the vehicle window settings windshield wiper settings impact settings collision detection sensors alarm sensors maintenance sensors application use sensors while driving e.g. motion text monitors alarm sensors camera sensors tactile feedback sensors seat temperature sensors face detection sensors fingerprint sensors gesture sensors button touch screen input sensors etc.

It should be understood that this list of sensors inputs systems or features of a vehicle is not exhaustive but should be viewed as only examples of many more features that can collect sense process examine store communicate interface and present the associated information. In accordance with one embodiment this information may be communicated to vehicle electronics which in turn may communicate with a network e.g. the Internet to enable cloud services processing. In other embodiments this type of information produced by DPOs may be shared with electronics that may be used in the vehicle or associated with the vehicle e.g. a driver or passenger s smartphone smart device smart watch computer etc. .

In one embodiment the DPOs may be producing data at various times or simultaneously. The data produced by the DPOs may be referred to herein as data units DUs as the data being produced may occur in bursts at different times over a session or periodically. Further the data produced may be relevant only a particular times. An example of a DU may be the speed of the vehicle at a particular time the temperature of the vehicle at a particular time the inputs made to an entertainment system or vehicle button or interface at a particular time e.g. setting control action the activity of windshield wipers at particular times etc. Further even taking the example of vehicle speed the vehicle speed is a changing metric which changes over time.

Thus for vehicle speed the DU may be defined as a stream of DUs which each DU being associated with a different time slice TS . In one embodiment each DU is associated with a particular TS. In the context of a stream of DUs each DU will have its associated TS. In the example of windshield wipers the setting of ON and rate of wiping is information that is categorized as a DU if the wipers are on for a period of time at speed 1 a stream of DUs for that time and setting may be produced. If the rate changes to speed 2 the DUs during that stream having associated TS for each DU will be produced.

Within this construct it should be appreciated that a Vehicle Entity will have a plurality of DPOs and each DPO can produce at certain times either one or a stream of DUs wherein each DU has an associated TS. In one embodiment if an activity or action is taking place e.g. driving along a geo location traced path the geo location data along the path can be partitioned e.g. time sliced into a plurality of DUs wherein each DU holds metadata regarding the geo location and other descriptive data and each such DU has an associated TS so that each DU can be identified to have occurred at a particular point in time.

In one embodiment the partitioning of data streams into DUs e.g. units of data having associated metadata and time information enables identification of changes occurring within any one of streams of data. That is by detecting changes over time e.g. comparing the metadata within the DUs information regarding user preferences user changes and relationships within streams of data produced by DPOs. As a further example situations may well occur wherein multiple DPOs of a Vehicle Entity can be producing streams of data such as status use changes in use settings conditions etc. and each of these data streams are collected and processed to define streams of DUs for each of the data streams produced by the DPOs of the Vehicle Entity.

Overtime some DPOs may be active producing data streams and some DPOs may not be active producing data streams and sometimes DPOs start up and some turn off. In general however one or more DPOs will be producing data streams and each data stream will be processed to define DUs. By producing DUs which are associated with TSs it is possible to identify granular levels changes transitions settings made settings not made use metrics and correlations between use and changes among DPOs.

In a similar manner a Home Entity may have a plurality of data producing objects DPOs . These DPOs may for example include home systems such as lighting HVAC watering home entertainment steaming video audio systems motions sensors camera systems occupancy sensors smoke detectors carbon monoxide sensors user interface sensors speakers systems electronic door locks alarm system use data alerts notification systems internet use connected objects being used within the home internet of things objects within or near or associated with the home or networks of the home and the like without limitation.

Just as in the example of a Vehicle Entity the DPOs of the Home Entity can be just as active or inactive a different times of day or week or month or season or year. For the sake of providing an example in the Home Entity a DPO may be the lighting system and another DPO may be a motion sensor. Generally a data stream can be associated to each of these example DPOs. If the lights are off the state of off itself is a data stream as the time during which the lights are off e.g. for one or more rooms or switches occurs over time.

The data stream can be for instance off for a period of time and on in a particular room or switch or outlet at another time slice of the data stream. The same can be said of the motion sensor which may be off or toggling between active and inactive depending on detected motion. Over time the motion sensor will have a data stream that includes its state information activity levels of activity surrounding activity of nearby sensors etc. Now for these data streams produced by each DPO of the Home Entity the data streams are in one embodiment partitioned to define a stream of data units DUs .

Each DU may associated metadata regarding the state activity changes in activity context of activity and associated time slice TS e.g. time identifier . In one embodiment each DU is defined as a block of data having a uniform span of time. In other embodiments each DU may be defined as a block having data that spans different amounts of time. The context of the DPO may dictate how much metadata is needed to describe the DU for the DPO.

In one embodiment the data streams of the DPO of the Home Entity can be processed locally partially into DUs or sent to a cloud system over a network wherein the cloud processing will produce the DUs for the different data streams coming from DPOs. In one embodiment a user may configure which and how many DPOs will be associated with a particular entity. For example some users may not want location data of a Vehicle Entity to be processed due to privacy concerns while others may. Thus it is possible to associate any number of DPOs for any number of entities.

In one implementation when both a Vehicle Entity and a Home Entity is associated to a user account for a user the user account may be customized so that some or all of the DPOs of each entity can be processed by cloud services. That is once a setting is made as to which entities to associate and the DPOs to associate with the entities the cloud processing system can manage the processing of the disparate data streams that originate from each entity.

In one embodiment the cloud processing system will process the data streams to DUs for each data stream of each entity. In one implementation a relationship is defined between the DPOs and or data streams so that cloud processing can place more emphasis on finding relationships between DUs of the data streams and then enable recommendations. In other implementations the relationships are learned based on user input patters or use and or express preferences.

Process based on TS of DUs so that you can look at what is happing in different data streams based on the DU TS. Find correlations intersections making automatic settings making recommendations learning what recommendation is wanted or not limiting recommendations based on anticipated need or preference etc.

In one embodiment real time vector data can be generated which facilitates examination of metadata md coming from different data streams at different times and from different entities. In some embodiments the analysis need not use vector formats and the data may simply be processed based on its type and or time of occurrence. Organization of the data streams into vectors of metadata over time also allows for quick filtering of entities that do not matter for particular rule process or filtering out of data producing objects that do not matter for particular rule processes. Once the initial filtering is performed additional rule processing is executed to make determinations regarding actions to recommend to the user actions to take for the user settings to make for the user or recording of feedback regarding certain recommended actions. The feedback may in one embodiment be used to reinforce learning patters and improve the profile of the user. In the following example a vehicle entity and a home entity is described.

Vector analysis may be used to identify relationships and determine if intersections are present for predefined rules. If an intersection for a rule is present the rule may cause one of a a notification b an automatic setting at one of the entities b a recommendation to be presented at one of the entities devices and or c a combination of two or more thereof.

At each time slice process vector analysis from each entity producing a data stream. For example at TS1 compare 

If more entities are added the comparison at each time slice TS will include analysis of metadata from multiple entities and the respective DPOs. In one embodiment before comparison processing is performed in conjunction with rule analysis a filtering may be performed which may eliminate metadata md from DPOs or Entities that may not be relevant to the rule processing. In some embodiments rules associated with user account can define which information may be relevant to the user.

In particular embodiments the interval of when time samples or slices are taken from particular DPOs may change either dynamically when less or more data is available or manually. For instance the system can be programmed to take samples every second every two seconds multiple times a second every minute every 5 minutes every hour every few hours once a day once every other day twice a day once a week once a month etc. Thus even if data is being received at cloud processing in real time or when sent from the DPOs the data can be sampled by the cloud processing on a different schedule or sampling program as noted herein.

The DPO can also include in this example cameras that may be associated or installed throughout the home entity. Each camera can be assigned a location depending on where the camera is installed. In some examples the cameras produce continuous data and in some examples the cameras produce data only upon triggering by motion or the like. Thus the data units DUs of the DPOs can produce data either continuously sporadically or intermittently which is depicted in the figure by the varying width size duration of the data units. Still further this example shows that a DPO can include motion sensors and the motion sensors can be associated with different sensors throughout the home.

The DPOs can also include entertainment systems which may be television units audio streaming systems video streaming systems online accounts Internet sites and other types of entertainment electronics and or Internet or network enabled devices or systems. For example the data producing unit can include a video streaming system and depending on its use or the data being shown or interacted with in the home different data units will be produced indicative of what is being viewed watched listened to interacted with or the like. Still further the DPOs can include appliances of the home. The appliances can include traditional appliances such as refrigerators stoves microwaves dishwashers and other kitchen items yard bedroom bathroom garage or location based appliance power meter solar system meter or electronics electric vehicle EV state historical power usage etc. In one embodiment these appliances will have Internet access and their use operation settings controls may be accessible over the Internet.

These appliances can therefore be added to the entity of DPOs for a particular user account. As shown over time multiple data units are produced by the different DPOs and the data is streamed to the cloud for cloud processing. Home data streams are collected by the cloud processing system which will include servers logic processing modules and infrastructure for storing and further processing the received stream data as noted above.

Also shown is the addition of another entity such as a vehicle entity entity 2 . The vehicle entity can also have a plurality of associated data producing objects. The data producing objects can produce data units as well related to the specific operation state changes or information related to the specific DPOs. In one example a vehicle entity can include DPOs such as GPS systems various vehicle systems user input detection media accessing operations communication accessing online user data usage online calendar access and other types of data producing objects. Additionally the data producing objects can include information related to the health of the vehicle such as fuel levels temperature levels service levels wear and tear etc.

Additional information that may be obtained from the vehicle can include the number of passengers in the vehicle the location of the vehicle when specific passengers are in the vehicle the speed of the vehicle and the speed of the vehicle when more than one passenger is in the vehicle.

Notifications can also be provided like preprogram notifications notifications triggered based on use of the vehicle notifications based on location of the vehicle notifications based on user account privileges notifications based on privileges for different levels of user accounts automatic settings of programmable actions in the vehicle display of useful information to the vehicle display system display of customized information based on the user driving the vehicle controls of the user interface provided to the vehicle based on the user identity biometric sensing data biometric changes in the driver biometric changes in passengers correlations between the number of passengers in the vehicle the type of data consumed by passengers in the vehicle the control settings made by passengers in the vehicle advertisements provided to the vehicle recommendations provided to the vehicle recommendations provided to passengers in the vehicle recommendations provided to only specific passengers in the vehicle discounts provided to drivers of the vehicle when at particular GPS locations promotions associated with time of day at which the vehicle is driven near specific merchants etc. This list is provided as an example only and not restrictive of the many different types of data producing objects and data resulting from use of systems and electronics of the vehicle and interactivity by users in the vehicle from time to time or over time.

In one embodiment the user may decide to add additional entities to the user account so that additional entities and their state can be analyzed to determine whether to provide certain control information such as recommendations settings or optimizations to the specific data producing objects of any one of the entities that are analyzed. For example the user may decide to add personal data status information entity 3 which may be associated to settings usage interactivity of the user s devices that are connected to the Internet etc.

The devices can include the users smart phone tablet computers watches desktop computers any computer accessed via a user account of the user and personal electronic devices that may be worn by the user. Just as the home entities and the vehicle entities can produce data streams over time based on the different data producing objects associated with a particular entity the personal data streams can also include multiple data producing objects which are then analyzed by the cloud processing systems based on rules logic prediction and learning of the user or entities use and interactions.

In operation for the available data streams for the DPOs the home data streams and the vehicle data streams are processed in one embodiment into entity vector data . As noted above the data for specific streams can be vectorized which means that the data is identified and formatted for a specific entity and DPO and metadata is collected for or identified for the specific activity of that DPO at the specific period of time. For example if the DPO is a camera system in the home metadata can include whether motion has occurred the number of frames captured based on motion the current state of the camera whether occupants are present in the camera images whether the cameras are being used or any other type of metadata.

Based on what the state of the camera is in a specific point metadata is created which describes what is occurring happening or the content being captured or state of the camera. Thus the metadata for specific DPOs will be changing over time and differ metadata will be collected based on the current state of every one of the DPOs that are streaming data to the cloud system.

Although discussion is provided with regard to vectorizing the data it should be understood that the data need not be turned into a vector form and can be processed in any other format. Other formats can include simply identifying the data collecting and storing metadata for use. For example the data type can be identified as data coming from a motion sensor or data coming from a vehicle GPS or the like and the metadata for the specific DPO will simply identify the state information regarding the DPO operation or any other information that can be identified and is classified as metadata.

As the entity vector data or simply metadata is collected from the various data streams the data is passed to an entity metadata selection unit . This information is being passed to the entity metadata selecting and in substantial real time for analysis of the data that is being received. As used herein substantial real time means that once the data is received from the data producing entities the data can then be processed by the cloud system in accordance with normal processing upon receipt or based on some time interval that s predefined or selected dynamically.

The entity vector data may also be simultaneously saved into a database for historical analysis of the data. In some embodiments certain states of the metadata may be occurring at a particular point in time which relate to DPOs of the vehicle and the home which may trigger a particular action rule but from historical analysis when these states of the metadata occurred the user preferred not to perform a particular task or receive a specific recommendation. Thus instead of simply providing recommendations based on the current processing of the data streams additional checks can be performed based on the historical vector data and user responses to previously submitted recommendations settings or notifications e.g. control information . As noted above control information is generally referred to herein to include recommendations notifications making settings making changes sending control packets sending alerts etc. and the like including other examples described in this disclosure.

By having an internal check image and that looks to the historical data and user interaction it is possible to avoid sending notifications recommendations or making settings that have been rejected or not preferred by the user that utilizes the user account. In the operation at a current time certain DPOs having data relevant to the at least one action rule is selected in operation . This is a time based context analysis which is looking at the state of the DPOs and the received data and action rules which may be part of the users account . The users account can store user rules settings preferences and other information. In one embodiment the action rules are saved and managed by a database system and database modules and control logic. Management of the action rules using technical processing modules enables efficient relationship correlations and processing.

The cloud processing system can store user accounts and information for many users. User profiles can be stored in the user accounts which identify the user and information regarding the DPOs assigned or selected by the user to be part of the user account. The user can also provide explicit user preferences that identify types of information that the user wishes to receive and types of information that the user does not wish to receive. Still further the user account can also save user learned preferences which are preferences that are identified by the system as being accepted based on the recommendations made by the system.

For example if the user wishes to place the vehicle at 70 when it is 92 or higher outside the system will over time determined that this is a preference desired by the user and a suggestion will be made consistent with the types of acceptable settings desired by the specific user. In some embodiments biometrics are used to identify which user is driving the specific vehicle so that specific user accounts can be selected. For example one vehicle can be associate with multiple drivers and based on the driver specific preferences can be selected for that specific driver. In other embodiments instead of biometrics the user can simply login to the vehicle for use or can access the vehicle using the code. The code can be in the form of a key a wireless key or simply by punching in a code into a user interface that then transforms the vehicle for use with the custom settings of the user. In operation specific metadata from selected DPOs are identified and are related to specific action rules.

The specific action rules can identify the type of recommendations settings to apply notifications to send alerts and other information that may be useful to the vehicle or the home or the user account. The rules can identify the specific metadata that will be useful in formulating that specific action. As such the entity metadata selection operates to identify the DPOs in operation at specific times and operation and will then filter specific metadata items from specific DPOs that relate to the specific context of the rule. Using this process it is possible to optimize processing of rules based on the received metadata associated with various data streams coming from different entities.

More details regarding example rules and action rules will be provided below which will show examples of how processing of information from different data streams will facilitate identification of specific actions recommendations settings alerts notifications etc. which will be processed by a user rules processing engine . The user rules processing engine is configured to identify if specific recommendation actions setting of applications alert sending notifications sending or other actions should be taken and sent to specific entities. For example some recommendations may be sent to the home entity while other recommendations may be sent to the vehicle entity.

Other notifications or information may be sent to the user device. This information can also be sent as control information which automatically sets a setting makes a control changes the status programs data or the like. In one embodiment if the information is actually sent to a specific entity the response by the user or the vehicle or the entity or the home may be in one embodiment received in cloud processing as feedback. This feedback can monitor the actions accepted the actions rejected and or the changes made in operation . Using this feedback learning processing will identify what the user or users prefer or did not prefer to receive or actions to take. This learning can then be sent back to the user account and stored as a learned preference. Over time the learned preference data can change based on the user s mood changes in patterns or overridden by explicit preferences.

Based on the type of data being received from the various data streams in operation identification of at least one metadata item from each of the DPOs of the vehicle entity and a DPO of the home entity is performed if the metadata relates to the action rule that is relevant for the specific period of time and based on the content of the metadata. In operation at least one metadata item is processed from each of the DPOs of the vehicle entity and the home entity to identify a recommendation or a notification or setting so that processing can act to identify relationship between the metadata items that is proved correlated to the recommendation and or notification and or setting. Based on this processing a recommendation can be made or a setting can be made or an alert can be made and sent to the specific entity as a relates to a specific DPO.

In some embodiments the action rules can be defined by the user for each one of the entities. In some embodiments rules can be suggested by the cloud system based on the type of entities and the types of DPOs added to specific entities. In some embodiments the types of rules can be simple and suggested by the system for easy selection by the user. In other embodiments the user can identify more complex scenarios that can be coded as rules based on the metadata received from one or more of the entities. In the example of the action rules can include action rules that relate primarily to the home and action rules that relate primarily to the vehicle. In other embodiments the action rules can be a hybrid of rules that relate to more than one of the entities. In other embodiments action rules made primarily for the home can also or will also include conditions based on the status of DPOs of the vehicle.

Similarly action rules defined primarily for the vehicle can and may depend on the state of information of DPOs metadata coming from the home entity. Thus the flexibility of creating rules that relate to conditions of various entities and conditions that may relate to changes over time or programmable changes based on timing schedules calendars location etc. can provide very dynamic programming capabilities to the user. As noted to facilitate the programming the cloud system can correlate simple rules based on the entities and based on the DPOs added to specific entities.

In one example it is shown that the home entity can create a rule which is weekday between 8 AM and 5 PM when I am away from home my home should be locked unless vehicle to is at home. This determination for example can be made based on whether the vehicle has GPS data that shows that it away from home. The home GPS location is also programmed into the system so as to allow the cloud system to make this determination. This determination is also being made based on a type of day weekday and a timing and the type of vehicle which is associated to the user account. Further this example rule also requires that the home should be locked.

For example if the user is driving away or is away from home on a weekday between 8 AM and 5 PM and vehicle 2 is not present at home then the doors should be locked to the home. This information can then be used by the cloud system to communicate the command or instructions to the electronic locks of the home which will set a lock status to the doors or lock the doors remotely. Other examples of conditions from the home are also shown based on different timing based on different vehicles being present at the home and actions to take at the home. One example is that the HVAC system should be off when vehicles 1 and 2 are away and also the HVAC should be turned on 20 min. before vehicle 1 and vehicle 2 arrive at a time and the temperature is below 50 F. This example shows that using the geolocation of the vehicles and the pre settings of the HVAC system to be correlated to the location of the vehicles it is possible to send commands to the HVAC system to turn off if the vehicles are away from home and also to turn on when the vehicles are headed home and are estimated to be arriving in about 20 min. based on distance of the vehicles to home traffic conditions and other environmental conditions.

It is also shown that this has a condition based on the actual temperature outside on the particular day in order for the system to trigger the setting of the HVAC system of the home. In another example monitoring inventory levels of groceries in a home is an input that can be monitored or used as metadata. If the vehicle is shown or identified to be near a grocery store notifications can be provided to the user indicating to the user the type of groceries that should be purchased based on the inventory levels. Examples of the vehicle type action rules can include enabling the GPS data or disabling it.

The vehicle setting can also activate a setting that will allow electric charging when the home electric usage peak rates are lowest. For example electric usage rates will change from time to time and this information can be obtained by the cloud processing system when the vehicle and the home are providing data streams that provide information for sharing and processing. Other simple rules can also be set to notify the user driver when the home doors are open and the vehicle is away from home. The system can also be programmed to open the garage door that does not have a vehicle inside currently occupying the space when the vehicle arrives home or is about to arrive home. The vehicle can also be synchronized with other data streams such as online calendars to identify appointments and conflicts for determining when to provide recommendations discounts identification merchants nearby and or make settings to vehicle or home.

As shown device can allow the user to add entities and DPOs to the account. The users account is Bob and other user accounts can simply login to identify who the specific user is. For example if the user has programmed specific settings for the user account the settings will be active when the user is accessing one of the vehicles that relate to the user account such as vehicle 1 which is Bob s truck. If Bob decides to ride or drive vehicle 2 the user can login to his account and be a guest user of vehicle 2. In this example configuration settings can be made to add vehicles add the home add personal devices etc. The user can simply select to add specific vehicles and make settings regarding geolocation and customize identification of the vehicles.

Once the user has selected to add one or more vehicles to the user account the user can add the home in any order . The user can data producing objects such as doors exterior doors garage home lighting home alarm home settings alerts watering systems etc. The user can select to turn on or off specific ones of the DPOs to be monitored or accessible for processing and making recommendations.

For instance the user may not wish to be notified regarding home lighting information so that information is not selected. However the user does wish to be notified regarding the home alarm and only for alerts. Thus only the selected data items will produce metadata that will be streamed to the cloud and utilized by the cloud processing system to make recommendations and or make recommendations that correlate to settings of other entities such as the vehicles. Although not shown the vehicle GUI can include other data items by expanding the graphical user interface that shows the multiple data producing objects for each particular vehicle so the user can select or not select specific DPOs. Similarly the user can add personal devices and or data from specific online accounts. This user has selected to actually link up the online calendar for personal events only and also wishes to be notified for online shopping lists and not discounts. The user may be driving around a merchant and if a specific item on the shopping list is present in the location and may be associated with the shopping list a notification may be provided to the user.

In some embodiments the user may add additional entities or asked the cloud system to suggest entities to add. For example the user may already have various online accounts which may be added to the cloud processing system to allow cloud processing system to suggest entities to the user. Once the entities are added the system can also be asked to suggest DPOs to add. The DPOs can be added based on the type of data that can be harnessed or accessed from the various entities. For example if the home has a watering system but the watering system is not Internet accessible the DPO for the watering system will not be suggested. However if the front gate of the residence is Internet accessible that DPO may be suggested.

In still other embodiments the user may ask the cloud processing system to recommend configurations. Once a configuration is selected it is added to the settings of the user account. Still further the system can be asked to suggest rules for the entities. For example the system will know the type of DPOs and the type of entities that are associated with the user account and can determine the types of data that may intersect or have relevance to the user. This determination can be made based on rules generated by users manually rules generated over time by other users or popular rules created by users based on the type of entities or can be manually set for every specific user.

This information may be coordinated with the cloud processing system which manages the user account. In this illustration the user has connected certain entities to the user account which include the home vehicle 1 and vehicle 2. This illustration provides an example of suggested rules generated by the cloud processing system. One rule can include to turn on the driveway lights when I arrived in either vehicle after dark. Certain lights in the driveway can be associated with the home entity and based on the location of the vehicles e.g. using GPS the lights can be automatically turned on.

Another suggested rule can be to notify me when nobody is home and I am driving away from home and an exterior door is unlocked or open. This rule is also suggested by the system based on the fact that the user has associated the vehicle and associate home with particular doors as data producing objects and their state can be monitored using the metadata associated with those particular data producing objects. Another example rule can be to open the garage door when I arrive in either vehicle and turn off the home alarm. For example purposes the user has selected to add to the suggested rules to the user account. These are only simple example rules that can be suggested by the system based on the type of entities and data producing objects that were added to the user account. In other examples the user can add custom rules based on the data producing objects.

The system can enable learning of selections made by the user or actions taken by the user in response to rules that are recommended and notifications settings e.g. as shown in operation . The user can also change existing rules or ask the system to suggest new rules. As noted above new rules or suggestion of rules can be made based on crowd sourced rules made by other users in their user accounts. The rules of other users if accessible from one or more databases will be void of personal user data. In this example it is the logic and the type of DPOs that can be found as similar so that rules can be suggested. For example if other users have similar type entities and data producing objects the types of rules that are used by those users and most frequently use rules can be suggested to the user in an automated fashion to simplify the formation of simple rules.

In one embodiment the rules can intersect with multiple users that share a car share the house or share some entity. One embodiment includes processing to resolve conflicts between preferences of multiple users so that alerts recommendations and other settings are not made when conflicts exist. For example when one user ties to record a show but someone is already recording at that time the system may ask if you want to override or simply avoid providing a change setting or recommendation. If one user account sets a condition to lock the doors when vehicle 1 is not home but vehicle 2 is home and the doors should be open then a resolution module can determine the conflict and override the setting.

This override and or priority processing can also apply to home locks home alarms home lighting and the use of one more vehicles among other things. In some embodiments multiple user accounts can be linked or related so that conflicts can be checked against the two or more user accounts. In one configuration related user accounts can be programmed with priority status so that changes by one user take priority over other users. In some cases the priority status can be assigned to specific DPOs such as one user has priority over the HVAC system settings and other users have priority over the garden watering DPO.

In still other embodiments rules can be set so that automated settings are overridden if users are present such as when a user is home or the home is occupied. In still other examples the cloud processing system may still be able to set programming or set settings when users are home or in a car but only certain settings are allowed based on priority settings privileges settings historically learned settings etc. In still other embodiments permissions should be in place so certain users cannot override the thermostat. The permissions are useful so that the cloud processing will know who is manually manipulating what and when or making changes to DPOs e.g. to lighting systems HVAC systems doors entertainment systems etc. . In one embodiment a processing module is provided so that users are able to be the main home user parents for example which can approve changes to what the cloud is trying to predict change or recommend.

In one embodiment at a remote location a user is able to access a user interface for an application which provides users access to user accounts. A user account can be for a user and the user can add one or more vehicles objects data or appliances for remote reporting viewing and control. In one embodiment a user is an owner or user of a vehicle. The user can register the vehicle with a remote service.

The remote service can be accessed over the Internet such as via a website or application of a portable device. The remote service can provide a multitude of cloud services for the user such as remote control features remote viewing services remote alarm controls remote camera activation remote audio video recording of the vehicle i.e. areas around the vehicle and inside the vehicle . In one embodiment the vehicle is able to connect to the Internet e.g. when the vehicle engine is off on and or is occupied or un occupied to allow a user via a remote cloud service to access features of the vehicle. The vehicle can be accessed when running when parked when stopped when moving etc. The vehicle and its audio recording devices and video cameras can be accessed from remote locations to allow users to remotely communicate with the vehicle or with people riding or residing inside the vehicle.

The remote communication can also allow a person to communicate remotely with people standing outside or inside of a vehicle. For instance if a user is accessing his or her vehicle from a remote location cameras installed in and or on the vehicle allow the remote user to see a person standing proximate to the vehicle. The remote user can then communicate with a person standing proximate to the vehicle using microphones and speakers of the vehicle.

In some embodiments described herein vehicles structures and objects may include circuitry and communication logic to enable communication with a cloud processing system over the Internet. In one embodiment the services provided by the electronic systems of a vehicle can include services that access the various components or subsystems of a vehicle such as door locks service histories user profiles audio settings entertainment settings mapping functions communications systems telecommunication synchronization systems speakers heating and cooling functions auto engine start shut off remotely via smart devices remote heating cooling initiation remote face to face conferencing etc. The electronic systems within a vehicle can also provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface can include a plurality of buttons controls and transceivers to receive input from a user. The input from a user can also be provided by voice input facial recognition eye retina scans fingerprint scans a combination of biometrics or via a capacitive or regular touchscreen contained or displayed within the vehicle the vehicle s glass doors dashboard etc.

In one embodiment vehicles can maintain information regarding where they are where they are heading and their destination maintained which is maintained by GPS and navigation systems on board. The information collected and maintained by every vehicle may be mutually exclusive meaning that only each individual vehicle is aware of its own heading rate of speed and current location. This information in one embodiment is crowd sourced and or crowd shared consumed for use in for accident avoidance or other communication. By networking vehicles within a certain radius together all individually location aware vehicles become aware of all other vehicles in their sphere of influence. Vehicles may network with vehicles in their range using wireless communication systems such as but not limited to Wi Fi Wi Gig LTE cellular radio near field communication or other methods.

In one embodiment the communications of the vehicle and electronics of the vehicle will enable direct communication with a user of the vehicle. The user of the vehicle can include for instance the owner of the vehicle a driver of the vehicle or any third party having access to the vehicle either to drive the vehicle to monitor the vehicle remotely etc. 

The access to the data can also be encrypted to prevent unauthorized access to the data. GPS and mapping services can also be in communication with the cloud processing provide data concerning the locations of the vehicles and activities that occurred to the vehicles when at particular locations. The cloud processing can be access by the vehicles themselves using their electronics and communications via mobile devices from home from work etc.

In some embodiments the vehicles may establish peer to peer links to facilitate fast transfer of data. In other embodiments vehicles may link to each other using pairing algorithms that allow the vehicles to exchange data using WiFi Bluetooth near field communication NFC or some other short range communication protocol. A user s APP homepage may also include dynamically updating sections in which the most important information at a given time may be displayed or surfaced to a user. If a user has parked in a certain parking area he or she may want to monitor metrics related to incidents that may have occurred to his or her vehicle vehicles around his or her vehicle any dynamically received alerts as well as precaution levels. Additionally a user may choose to configure his or her APP homepage to display the most pertinent audio and video feeds to their needs.

In one embodiment the vehicles can communicate directly with each other via a temporary pairing process. The temporary pairing process can be automatically enabled when vehicles become too close to each other for example. When this happens local communication between the vehicles such as a peer to peer connection Wi Fi connection NFC connection or Bluetooth connection can be established to enable the vehicles to share information concerning their proximity to one another.

This local communication will enable one or both vehicles to take correction actions or alert a driver to change course or trigger automatic collision prevention measures e.g. more aggressive notifications to one or both operators slow the speed of one or more vehicles change the driving direction of one or more vehicles etc. . Once the close proximity communication occurs and some corrective action is made the data regarding the occurrence and the actions taken can be communicated to the cloud system for storage. The information can then be viewed by a registered user having access to an account for the vehicle s . The various embodiments may be embodied in computer readable media which is saved in storage. The storage may be saved on cloud storage data centers or the like which are accessible over the Internet. The access may be wired or wireless. In vehicles the connection to the Internet may be wireless and the connection can be continuous or non continuous depending connection. Code on the vehicle electrons can execute at least some of the method operations when not connected and other operations are executed jointly between vehicle electronics e.g. memory code and processors of a vehicle and cloud processing which may implement one or more servers either virtual or not.

It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention. Some embodiments are defined by combining features from embodiments defined throughout the present application and materials incorporated by reference.

In some implementations the learning and predicting embodiments described herein may utilize learning and prediction algorithms that are typically used in machine learning. Some algorithms look to patterns of input inputs to certain user interfaces inputs that can be identified to biometric patterns neural network processing machine learning e.g. identifying relationships between inputs and filtering based on geo location and or vehicle state in real time logic for identifying or recommending a result or a next input a next screen a suggested input suggested data that would be relevant for a particular time geo location state of a vehicle or combinations thereof. In general machine learning enables the vehicle to learn what is needed by the user at a particular time and or state of the vehicle state of one or more sensors of the vehicle without requiring the user to provide explicit input or programming

Overtime machine learning can be used to reinforce learned behavior which can provide weighting to certain inputs. For instance the more times a user turns on the windshield wipers when it is raining and within 2 minutes of turning on the car may signal that this patterns is likely to happen again. In another example if a user stops to charge his vehicle at a particular charge station which is 20 miles from his home repeatedly on Tuesdays at 6 pm when nobody is a passenger in the vehicle and the vehicle had less than 5 charge may be used as a strong pattern that this may occur again in the future. This data combined with other data may be used to recommend data regarding the charge station in advance so that the user need no look up the charge station to reserve a spot or the like. It should be understood that these are just simplified examples to convey examples of recommendations which may be based on some learning preferences or pattern analysis or likelihoods.

Thus context awareness across multiple dimensions will allow for more accurate predictions learning e.g. by building and refining behavior models and surfacing suggesting recommendations of supplemental content or settings when it is most probable or likely or useful or needed by the user or vehicle and user or relevant at a current or proximate or near or destination geo location. For purposes of providing example ways of processing learning algorithms machine learning methods predictions data analysis and the like without limitations to any specifically claimed embodiment reference may be made to a book entitled Second Edition by Ethem Alpaydin The MIT Press ISBN 978 0 262 01243 0 Cambridge Mass. London England 2010 which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

In one embodiment a display of a vehicle can include one or more displays. For example a display screen of the vehicle may include any one or more of a main dashboard display or a center console display or a combined main dashboard and center console display or a surface display or a glass surface or a windshield display or a window display or a touch surface display or a headrest display or a movable display or a wireless display or a wire connected display or combinations thereof. In one embodiment biometrics may be associated to the user account. The biometrics may be used to monitor use of the vehicle and determine if the custom user interfaces is to be enabled or if a guest custom user interface is to be enabled or if public custom user interface is to be enabled or identify an interaction mode. The user account may include profile data defining when particular custom user interfaces are to be enabled or interactions modes are to be used. The biometrics may include one or more of image data of a driver s face a passenger s face a finger print a retina scan a signature a gesture a user input a login a key a paring device or combinations of two or more thereof.

The various embodiments defined herein may define individual implementations or can define implementations that rely on combinations of one or more of the defined embodiments. Further embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention could employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the description and claims.

