---

title: Buoy arrester
abstract: A buoy arrester comprising a boat hook body having a U-shaped with parallel sides and a first free end angled away from the U-shaped opening, a line securing ring integrally formed with said boat hook body and positioned at the U-shaped opening and a removable handle that is pole shaped that can be attached to the second free end of said boat hook body. A resilient line retainer catch can be positioned across the boat hook U-shaped opening to prevent the mooring line from detaching from the boat hook body. A securing line is attached to the line securing ring on the boat hook body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09475551&OS=09475551&RS=09475551
owner: 
number: 09475551
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141117
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 962 956 filed on Nov. 20 2013.

A buoy arrester that includes a boat hook having a U shaped body for manually capturing a mooring line in the water by a mariner positioned on a floating vessel a releasable boat hook pole shaped handle and a line attaching ring positioned on the boat hook body at the U shaped opening for securing the boat hook to the vessel during arrestment of the mooring line.

A mooring is useful for anchoring a boat in a body of water. A mooring typically has a large concrete block secured on the ocean bottom and a mooring chain or line from the secured block to a float on top of the water to identify its location. The mooring line can be tied to a boat for anchorage. Capturing a mooring line from a moving boat using a boat hook can be very tricky and sometimes dangerous especially in heavy winds or fast current situations or both. A mariner especially if alone will be forced to stand and reach over the side of a moving vessel with a boat hook for capturing the mooring line. Once the mariner has engaged the mooring line in the water with the boat hook the mariner still must maneuver the mooring line into the boat for attachment to a boat cleat for a secure anchorage. The experience of mooring a boat to a mooring line can result in dropping the boat hook into the ocean after capture or making several passes over the line without line capture.

Using the buoy arrester described herein mooring a vessel even with a single person is made much easier and safer because of the construction of the buoy arrester. By having the mariner grasp a separate securing line attached at one end directly to the boat hook on a ring adjacent the opening of the boat hook the mariner can retain control of the boat hook in every situation to prevent loss of the boat hook over the side. Once the mariner captures the mooring line the mariner can pull the mooring line on to the boat or up to the boat for attachment to a cleat or other line.

A buoy arrester comprising a rigid boat hook that has a U shaped body for capturing a mooring line manually a pole shaped handle releasably attached at one end to said boat hook body. The handle is used by a mariner to manipulate the position of the boat hook for initial contact and capture of the mooring line from the water while the mariner is standing on the boat or vessel and the vessel is approaching the mooring.

The boat hook body end may include a male connector that can receive and hold the handle end using a tight friction fit that can be separated from the boat hook body end with manual force to release the handle from the boat hook body when desired.

The U shaped boat hook body also includes a ring disposed near the boat hook U shaped opening. The boat hook ring is used to attach a boat hook securing line that is held by the mariner who is also manipulating the boat hook pole to capture the mooring line.

Once the boat hook U shaped body has captured the mooring line the mariner can disengage and release the pole shaped handle from the boat hook while retaining the securing line and pulling the boat hook and mooring line toward the mariner with the securing line so that the boat can be cleated directly to the mooring line or to a separate boat cleated line that is firmly attached directly to the mooring line to establish an anchorage. The boat hook securing line will ensure that the boat hook is not lost over the side even after it is detached from the mooring line.

Because the boat hook body ring and the securing line attached to the ring are physically and directly aligned with the opening across the boat hook U shaped body opening manual pulling force on the boat hook securing line will ensure a direct line of force along the same axis between the mooring line and the boat hook securing line while pulling the mooring line on board the boat.

To use the buoy arrester described herein in order to capture and secure a mooring line a person on the boat would use the boat hook with the attached pole shaped handle to manually stand near the edge of the boat and extend the boat hook to the vicinity of the floating buoy which is attached to the mooring line in an effort to capture the mooring line. Once the boat person has captured the mooring line in the boat hook the pole shaped handle can be removed by pulling on the handle while at the same time the boat person is it holding tightly on to the boat hook securing line.

Pulling on the boat hook securing line by the mariner will pull the boat toward the mooring buoy and also pull the mooring line to the boat. In some moorings there is an extra line attached to the buoy that is used to attach to the boat cleat to establish the anchorage and mooring. Sometimes the mariner will attach a line already cleated to the boat directly to the mooring line for the anchorage. Once the mooring line has been cleated to the boat the mariner can manually remove the boat hook body from the mooring line. When the mariner is pulling in the mooring line using the boat hook securing line attached to the boat hook ring the line of direction of force will be directly through the opening and U shaped portion of the boat hook for improving the efficiency of the capture of the mooring line.

It is an object of this invention to provide a buoy arrester that allows a mariner to safely and quickly capture a mooring line while standing on a vessel to secure an anchorage for the vessel.

It is another object of this invention to provide a buoy arrester that includes a U shaped boat hook body that includes a line securing ring that is positioned at the opening of the boat hook opening for aligning the direction of force when securing and capturing a mooring line and while pulling on the boat hook securing line by the mariner.

The buoy arrester is designed to help a boat operator or mariner quickly secure a vessel to a mooring buoy with one easy motion. The device which is the boat hook is attached at one end to an extendable pole shaped handle 8 feet or longer. A synthetic line of three quarter inch diameter is secured to the ring on the boat hook at the bitter end while the other end of the boat securing line is attached to a cleat at the bow of the vessel. The synthetic securing line should be at least 25 feet long. The boat operator holds the extendable handle and the synthetic line together as the vessel approaches the buoy. The boat operator then manually hooks the boat hook to the mooring line that is attached to the buoy and the float. The boat operator then disengages the boat hook body by pulling the handle backwards while leaving the boat line attached to the buoy moves the vessel closer to the mooring buoy replaces the synthetic line with a heavy gauge line according to safety regulations for securing a vessel to a mooring buoy. The buoy arrester is not designed to be left permanently attached to the buoy. The buoy arrester is an aiding device that is designed to help a boat operator or mariner initially catch the buoy mooring line and then proceed according to the regulations. The buoy arrester is very useful in a bad weather situation with strong winds choppy waters and or a single person handling the vessel for a shorthanded crew.

The body is manufactured from a noncorrosive 316 stainless steel one half inch diameter rod. The female fastener or adapter for attaching the handle to the boat hook body is manufactured out of either aluminum or stainless steel tubing inch inside diameter tubing. The purpose is to attach the adapter to the handle in a friction connection so that the handle can be separated from the boat hook body by pulling on the handle once the boat hook body is attached to a mooring line. The adapter fits most commercially available handles on the market with a inch outside diameter.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular and a buoy arrester is shown that includes an anchor hook body that includes a first free end defining a U shaped hook opening with parallel sides and a second free end that may include a cylindrically shaped male friction fastener end portion that allows the boat hook body to be attached to a pole shaped handle at one end.

The boat hook body may also include a mooring line retainer flexible catch near the opening of the U shaped hook to ensure that the mooring line once captured will not be released from the boat hook without manual intervention.

A pole shaped handle includes a cylindrically shaped female friction fastener adapter at one end that is sized in diameter to engage the boat hook female fastener to securely hold the boat hook body to the handle when necessary. The cylindrically shaped handle fastener adapter may include a slot at one end which can engage and receive a portion of the boat hook ring described below.

The boat hook body includes a line securing ring integrally formed with the boat hook body . The line securing ring is in the same plane as the boat hook U shaped body and is positioned near the opening of the U shaped boat hook body to provide alignment along the longitudinal axis of the boat hook body which aids in alignment when pulling in the mooring line with the secure line to the boat hook body .

The boat hook body male fastener can be manually attached or removed from the handle friction fastener adapter when necessary during a mooring capture especially after the mooring line has been positioned inside the U shaped boat hook body allowing the handle to be manually disengaged by pulling on the boat hook and the mooring line at the same time. The boat operator will of course have the boat hook securing line firmly in grip which is used to pull on the boat hook once the mooring line is captured while at the same time the boat hook handle is detached from the boat hook body fastener

The free end of the boat hook body may be angled at approximately 45 degrees relative to the U shaped hook body outwardly to increase the opening presented by the hook relative to the capture of a mooring line that increases the length of the effective opening of the boat hook U shaped body to increase the probability of capturing a mooring line in the water.

Referring back to the securing line that is tied through the ring on the boat hook body is extremely important for the operation of the device in that the boat hook body will not be lost overboard during the operation because the boat operator will hold or secure the boat hook securing line at all times during the mooring operation. The one end of the securing line may be cleated to the boat or vessel. The boat hook securing line is also used by the boat operator to pull the mooring line up to the side of the boat so that the mooring line can be cleated to the boat to establish the mooring and the anchorage. In another embodiment the boat operator may alternatively attach a line that is secured to the boat cleat directly to the mooring line for a secure attachment and anchorage.

To use the buoy arrester described herein the boat operator directs the boat to a floating buoy that represents a mooring line and mooring attached thereto for anchorage. As the boat approaches the buoy the boat operator will have the boat hook body firmly attached to the handle and will stand in a position along the side of the boat to secure the boat hook to the mooring line that is attached to the buoy which is the mooring line by manually reaching out with the boat hook into the water to capture the mooring line. The boat operator or mariner also holds the securing line in one hand during this operation that is attached to the boat hook ring. Once the mooring line is captured at the same time the boat operator holds onto the boat hook securing line. The handle that is attached by friction to the boat hook body can be pulled apart separating the handle from the boat hook. At the same time the boat operator will pull on the securing line directly attached to the ring on the boat hook which pulls on the mooring line pulling the boat to the mooring line and the mooring line to the boat. The boat operator can continue pulling so that the mooring line will be lifted up to the boat which allows the line to be cleated to a cleat on the boat for securing the anchorage. In an alternate embodiment the boat operator could take a separate line that is already cleated to the boat and attach it directly around the mooring line firmly tying the two lines together for the anchorage.

Once the mooring line is safely attached to the boat the boat operator can manually release the boat hook and the flexible catch from the mooring line and reattach the handle so that the buoy arrester is ready for use in the future along with the boat hook securing line together.

The instant invention has been shown and described herein in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiment. It is recognized however that departures may be made there from within the scope of the invention and that obvious modifications will occur to a person skilled in the art.

