---

title: Data research and risk management assessment application
abstract: Systems, apparatus, and computer program products provide for a comprehensive platform in which users can gain access to data mapping and linkage information associated with multiple data sources, data systems, databases within the systems and the like. As such, the platform provides for time-efficient and reliable data management and research which aids the user in comprehending the connections between data from different data sources and included within different data systems, and the downstream impact (i.e., the impact of the data on other data fields) and upstream data source(s) (i.e., the secondary data fields used to calculate the data filed) of such data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588662&OS=09588662&RS=09588662
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09588662
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140731
---
In general embodiments of the invention relate to data management and more particularly a data research and risk management application that is configured to facilitate research and data validation by linking data fields from disparate data sources and providing upstream data source s i.e. the secondary data fields used to calculate the data and downstream data field impact i.e. the use impact of the data field in calculating other data fields .

In large enterprise businesses such as a financial institution having offices and branches located worldwide data management and validation can be a daunting task since the data originates from various sources and is implementing in various systems. For example the enterprise may have multiple divisions entities product lines and the like each with their own systems of record data sources extracts databases and the like.

In instances in which an enterprise large business has disparate systems of record data sources extracts databases and the like data research and validation becomes a time consuming and inefficient task because information is stored at various locations and users have to access various systems documents and the like to perform such data research and or validation tasks. Thus the ability to readily generate reports such as reports that map data fields from different data sources and the like is severely impacted.

Moreover data analysis and searching becomes problematic because a data field originating from one data source or stored in one data system database may have a different label name when originating from another data source or when stored in another data system database. In addition the manual aspect of such data analysis and validation is unreliable since the resulting mapping of data fields from table to table database to database and the like is prone to human error inaccuracies.

In the financial institution scenario when undertaking a data research activity it is important to understand and validate data connections across all systems and applications. The absence of systematic information on data lineage and mapping results in difficulty in validating calculation logic and as such the downstream impact on validation of balance sheets and income statements is negatively affected.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems apparatus computer program products methods and the like that facilitates data research and validation amongst disparate data systems data sources and the like. The desired systems apparatus and the like should provide the requisite linkage and or mapping of data fields from amongst multiple data sources and or data systems. In addition a need exists to provide such linkage and mapping information in a comprehensive platform that is easily accessible user friendly and provides flexibility and efficiency in generating reports using information from multiple different data sources databases tables and the like. Moreover the desired systems apparatus and the like should provide the ability to readily analyze questions and issues surrounding data by providing upstream data source s i.e. the secondary data fields used to calculate a selected data field downstream data impact i.e. where is the data used in calculating other data fields and the business rules impacted by the data.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatus systems computer program products methods or the like for a comprehensive platform which users can gain access to data mapping and linkage information associated with multiple data sources data systems databases within the systems and the like. As such embodiments of the present invention provide a time efficient tool application that aids the user in comprehending the connections between data from different data sources and included within different data systems and the downstream impact and upstream data sources s of such data.

Additionally embodiments of the present invention reduce risk by adding reliability to the data validation process by presenting the calculation logic associated with each relevant data field in all data systems databases tables and the like. Data research can be performed efficiently and the cascading impact of data field assessed in a timely fashion through access to both the upstream data sources i.e. where a data field originates or is derived from and the downstream i.e. where a data field is used for calculating other data fields impact of the data.

In addition embodiments of the present invention provide a data management tool application that is configured to provide multiple report options for example mapping current data source information with proposed data source information.

An apparatus for presenting display of data mapping information between multiple data systems defines first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. The apparatus further includes a data research and risk management application that is stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The application is configured to receive a first user input at a first user interface that selects a data model from amongst a plurality of data models and in response to receiving the first user input provide selectable display in the first user interface of one or more data extracts associated with the selected data model. In addition the application is configured to receive a second user input that selects one of the data extracts and in response to receiving the second user input provide selectable display in the first user interface of one or more databases associated with the selected data extract. Further the application is configured to receive a third user input that selects one of the databases and in response to receiving the third user input provide selectable display in the first user interface of one or more data fields associated with the selected data base.

Moreover the application is configured to receive a fourth user input that selects one of the data field and receive a fifth user input that selects a search option. In response to receiving the fifth user input the application is configured to determine data mapping information for the selected data field and display in the first user interface the data mapping information. The data mapping information includes at least one table location for the selected data field in other data systems i.e. databases and at least one data field name for the selected data field in the other data systems.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the data research and risk management application is further configured to determine the data mapping information for the selected data field and display the data mapping information such that the data mapping information includes a data type for the data field name in the other data systems and a data field description for the data field name in the other data system. Moreover in other specific embodiments of the invention the data mapping information that is displayed may include transformation type required to transform the selected data field to the data field name in the other data system. The transformation type includes one of no transformation required i.e. straight movement or derivation logic required to transform the selected data field to the data field name in the other data system.

In other specific embodiments the application is configured to provide additional data management functionality. For example in specific embodiments of the apparatus the data research and risk management application is further configured to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects a data model from amongst a plurality of data models and in response to receiving the sixth user input provide selectable display in the second user interface of one or more data fields associated with the selected data model. In such embodiments of the apparatus the application is further configured to receive a seventh user input that selects a search option and in response to receiving the seventh user input determine upstream data source and downstream database impact of the selected data field and provide display in the second user interface of the upstream data source and downstream database impact. In such embodiments of the apparatus the upstream data source includes one or more data field used to calculate the selected data field and a calculation for deriving each of the one or more data fields and the downstream database impact includes one or more secondary data fields impacted by the selected data field. Moreover in further related embodiments of the apparatus the application may be configured to receive an eighth user input that selects one of the secondary data fields and receive a ninth user input that requests downstream database impact of the secondary data field. In response to receiving the ninth user input the application is configured to determine downstream database impact of the secondary data field which includes one or more tertiary data fields impacted by secondary data field.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the data research and risk management application is further configured to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects a data source and receive a seventh user input at the second user interface that requests a report for the selected data source. In response to receiving the seventh user input the application is configured to generate and present the report in a third user interface. The report includes a listing of data fields upstream data source associated with each data field and data field transformation information for each data field.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the data research and risk management application is further configured to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects search character criteria a seventh user input that defines search characters and an eighth user input that requests data field search. In response to receiving the eighth user input the application is further configured to determine data fields that meet the search character criteria and the defined search characters and provide display in the second user interface of the data fields that meet the search character criteria and the defined search. The data fields are displayed according to an associated database.

Moreover in further embodiments of the apparatus the data research and risk management application is configured to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects a database and in response to receiving the sixth user input provide selectable display in the second of a plurality of data fields associated with the selected database. The application is further configured to receive a seventh user input that selects one of the data fields associated with the selected database and receive an eighth user input that requests data extracts and tables associated with the selected data field. In response to receiving the eighth user input the application is configured to determine and provide display in the second user interface of data extracts and tables using the selected data field. The data extracts and tables are displayed according to data model.

A computer program product including a non transitory computer readable medium defines second embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a first user input at a first user interface that selects a data model from amongst a plurality of data models and a second set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the first user input provide selectable display in the first user interface of one or more data extracts associated with the selected data model. The computer readable medium additionally includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to receive a second user input that selects one of the data extracts and a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the second user input provide selectable display in the first user interface of one or more databases associated with the selected data extract. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a fifth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a third user input that selects one of the databases and a sixth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the third user input provide selectable display in the first user interface of one or more data fields associated with the selected data base. Moreover the computer readable medium includes a seventh set of codes for causing a computer to receive a fourth user input that selects one of the data field and an eighth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a fifth user input that selects a search option. Lastly the computer readable medium includes a ninth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the fifth user input determine data mapping information for the selected data field and display in the first user interface the data mapping information such that the data mapping information includes at least one table location for the selected data field in other data systems and at least one data field name for the selected data field in the other data systems.

In specific embodiments of the computer program product the ninth set of codes is further configured to cause the computer to determine the data mapping information for the selected data field and display the data mapping information including a data type for the data field name in the other data systems and a data field description for the data field name in the other data system. While in other embodiments of the computer program product the data mapping information that is displayed includes transformation type required to transform the selected data field to the data field name in the other data system. The transformation type includes one of no transformation required or derivation logic required to transform the selected data field to the data field name in the other data system.

In additional specific embodiments of the computer program product the computer readable medium includes a tenth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects a data model from amongst a plurality of data models and an eleventh set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the sixth user input provide selectable display in the second user interface of one or more data fields associated with the selected data model. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a twelfth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a seventh user input that selects a search option and a thirteenth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the seventh user input determine upstream data source and downstream database impact of the selected data field and provide display in the second user interface of the upstream data source and downstream database impact. In specific embodiments the upstream data source includes one or more data field used to calculate the selected data field and a calculation for deriving each of the one or more data fields and the downstream database impact includes one or more secondary data fields impacted by selected data field i.e. the selected data field is used to calculate the secondary data field . In such embodiments of the invention the computer readable medium may include a fourteenth set of codes for causing a computer to receive an eighth user input that selects one of the secondary data fields a fifteenth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a ninth user input that requests downstream database impact of the secondary data field and a sixteenth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the ninth user input determine downstream database impact of the secondary data field including one or more tertiary data fields impacted by the secondary data field i.e. the secondary data field is used to calculate the tertiary data field .

In still further specific embodiments of the computer program product the computer readable medium includes a tenth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects a data source and an eleventh set of codes for causing a computer to receive a seventh user input at the second user interface that requests a report for the selected data source. Further the computer readable medium includes a twelfth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the seventh user input generate and present the report in a third user interface. The report includes a listing of data fields upstream data source associated with each data field and data field transformation information for each data field.

Moreover in further specific embodiments of the computer program product the computer readable medium includes a tenth set of codes for causing a computer to receive a sixth user input at a second user interface that selects search character criteria an eleventh set of codes for causing a computer to receive a seventh user input at the second user interface that defines search characters and a twelfth set of codes for causing a computer to receive an eighth user input at the second user input that requests data field search. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a thirteenth set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the eighth user input determine data fields that meet the search character criteria and the defined search characters and provide display in the second user interface of the data fields that meet the search character criteria and the defined search characters. The data fields are displayed according to an associated database.

A method for presenting display of data mapping information provides for third embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving a first user input at a first user interface that selects a data model from amongst a plurality of data models and in response to receiving the first user input providing selectable display in the first user interface of one or more data extracts associated with the selected data model. In addition the method includes receiving a second user input that selects one of the data extracts and in response to receiving the second user input providing selectable display in the first user interface of one or more databases associated with the selected data extract. Additionally the method includes receiving a third user input that selects one of the databases and in response to receiving the third user input providing selectable display in the first user interface of one or more data fields associated with the selected data base. Moreover the method includes receiving a fourth user input that selects one of the data field receiving a fifth user input that selects a search option and in response to receiving the fifth user input determining data mapping information for the selected data field and displaying in the first user interface the data mapping information which includes at least one table location for the selected data field in other data systems and at least one data field name for the selected data field in the other data systems.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products herein described in detail below provide for an all inclusive platform in which users can gain access to data mapping and linkage information associated with multiple data sources data systems databases within the systems and the like. As such embodiments of the present invention provide a time efficient tool application that aids the user in comprehending the connections between data from different data sources and included within different data systems and the downstream impact and upstream data source of such data.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Although some embodiments of the invention described herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be utilized by other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with financial institutions to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other device a method or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code computer readable instructions embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples e.g. a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a time dependent access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other tangible optical or magnetic storage device.

Computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods or apparatuses the term apparatus including systems and computer program products . It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions which execute by the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

According to embodiments of the invention described herein various systems apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for a platform that provides dynamic user access to data mapping information including but not limited to the linkages between data sources data extracts data systems databases tables and the like. By provide such information in an all inclusive platform the present invention is highly efficient in terms of aiding users in comprehending data connections links in less time. Moreover embodiments of the present invention provide users instantaneous access to the downstream impact i.e. the data is used to calculate one or more data fields and upstream data sources i.e. the secondary data fields used to calculate the data of the data.

Additionally embodiments of the present invention result in risk reduction in that the likelihood of error occurring in data validation is minimized by the platform being capable of succinctly outlining calculation logic used to determine all relevant data fields. In addition aspects such as the previous mention downstream impact and upstream data sources benefit efficient data research. In addition the data management application tool of the present invention provides for multiple different on demand reporting options which can be readily tailored based on the current needs and requirements of the user.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured for providing user access to data mapping information in response to selecting a specific data field in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. The apparatus which may include more than one physical device or unit is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as data research and risk management application and the like.

The computing platform can receive and execute routines and applications and includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further the computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as data research and risk management application and the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of data research and risk management application obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

As previously noted the memory of apparatus stores data research and risk management application that is executable by the processor and configured to provide users access data mapping linkage information for data originating from various different data sources and stored in various different data systems databases tables and the like. An example of the user interface of such an application is shown and described in relation to infra.

As such data research and risk management application is configured receive a first user input within a first user interface display that selects a data model from a plurality of data models. Data models may be configured by the enterprise business and may include but are not limited to lines of business products and the like. In a financial institution example the data models may include product service lines such as debit credit cards loans investments and the like.

In response to receiving the first user input that selects the data model the application is configured to provide selectable display within the first user interface of one or more data extracts associated with the selected data model . In this regard the data extracts that are presented in the first user interface or accessible from the first user interface via drop down menu or the like are dynamically determined and displayed based on the user s selection of the data model . As such the data extract may be any data extract associated with the selected data model and used to extract data from a data source associated with the data model .

Further data research and risk management application is configured receive a second user input that selects a data extract from amongst the one or more data extracts . In response to receiving the second user input that selects the data extract the application is configured to provide selectable display within the first user interface of one or more databases associated with the selected data extract . In this regard the databases that are presented in the first user interface or accessible from the first user interface via drop down menu or the like are dynamically determined and displayed based on the user s selection of the data extract . As such the database may be any database associated with the selected data extract .

Additionally data research and risk management application is configured receive a third user input that selects a database from amongst the one or more databases . In response to receiving the third user input that selects the database the application is configured to provide selectable display within the first user interface of a plurality of data fields otherwise referred to as data items or data elements included in the selected database . In this regard the data fields that are presented in the first user interface or accessible from the first user interface via drop down menu or the like are dynamically determined and displayed based on the user s selection of the database .

Moreover data research and risk management application is configured receive a fourth user input that selects a data field from amongst the plurality of data fields and a fifth user input that selects a search option . In response to receiving the fifth user input that selects the search option the data research and risk management application determines data mapping information associated with the selected data field and provides display of the data mapping information within the first user interface display .

In specific embodiments of the invention determining data mapping information may rely of extract based source logic documents not shown in that include all of the data fields associated with the extract and details of each data field including the links associated with the data field and the rules and logic behind each data field. In specific embodiments of the apparatus the data research and risk management application is configured to display data mapping information that includes table location and data field name of the selected data field within one or more other data systems databases of the business enterprise. It should be noted that the same data field may have different names in different data systems. For example in a financial institution scenario a data field may be named interest income in one data system and named int income in another data system. For the purpose of data validation it is essential that these different names be cross references so that the proper data can be accessed and analyzed during the validation process.

Referring to a block diagram is presented that highlights alternate embodiments of the data mapping information that may additionally be determined and displayed in connection with the data research and risk management application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In addition to the aforementioned table location and data field name of the selected data field within one or more other data systems databases the data mapping information may include data type data field description and transformation type . The data field description may include text that describes the data field in the other data system. Data field description is beneficial so that the user can assess the relation between the selected data field and the linked data field name . Transformation type may include indication of a straight move i.e. no transformation required or indication of derivation logic . In the event derivation logic is used to transform the selected data field to the linked data field name the derivation logic may be shown in the first user interface or the derivation logic may be accessible from the first user interface e.g. hyperlinked text indicating derivation logic .

The data mapping information may additionally include data source information for the selected data field. The data source information may include but is not limited to the type of data source the data source table and the one or more data source data fields from which the selected data field originated or is derived from.

For specific examples of the data mapping information that may be displayed by the data research and risk management application see and related discussion infra.

As detailed in the data research and risk management application is configured to provide data field search linkage by data system and data source . In addition to providing the link between the selected data field and the data system and or data source embodiments provide for providing the user ready access to the tables within data systems that include the selected data field the data field name in the other data system s the data type and description of the data field name in the other systems and or the transformation type and or logic employed to transform to the data field name in the other data system s . In addition as previously discussed data source information for the selected data field may be determined and presented including data source type table and data field s .

In addition the data research and risk management application may include determination and presentation of the upstream data source with calculation logic and downstream impact of a selected data. The upstream data sources s are the one or more secondary data sources used to calculate the selected data field and the downstream data impact is where the data is used in calculating other data fields i.e. the impact of the data on other data fields . For specific examples of the upstream data sources and downstream impact information that may be displayed by the data research and risk management application see and related discussion infra.

Additionally the data research and risk management application may include data source report functionality that is configured to allow the user to select an authorized data source and be presented with display of a report that includes details of the data fields that originate from the selected data source. For specific examples of the data source reporting functionality that may be generated by the data research and risk management application see and related discussion infra.

Data research and risk management application may be further configured to provide character search for data fields by data systems . Such that if the user does not know a specific data field name the user may enter part of the name i.e. a few characters or the like and the resulting search may return all of the data fields within respective data systems databases that include data fields that are responsive to the search criteria i.e. the part portion of the data field name or the like . For specific examples of the character data field search functionality that may be included within the data research and risk management application see and related discussion infra. Moreover the data research and risk management application may include data field exist by table and extract functionality to determine and display which tables and extracts a selected data field exist in for specified data systems. For specific examples of the table and extract search functionality that may be included within the data research and risk management application see and related discussion infra.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for providing data field mapping information in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a first user input is received that selects a data model from a plurality of data models. Data models may be configured by the enterprise business and may include but are not limited to lines of business products and the like. In a financial institution example the data models may include product service lines such as debit credit cards loans investments and the like.

At Event in response to receiving the first user input that selects the data model a selectable display is provided within a first user interface of one or more data extracts associated with the selected data model. As previously noted the data extracts are dynamically determined and displayed based on the user s selection of the data model. At Event a second user input is received that selects a data extract from amongst the one or more data extracts .

At Event in response to receiving the second user input that selects the data extract a selectable display is presented within the first user interface of one or more databases associated with the selected data extract. In this regard the databases that are presented are dynamically determined and displayed based on the user s selection of the data extract. At Event a third user input is received that selects a database from amongst the one or more databases.

At Event in response to receiving the third user input that selects the database a selectable display is provided within the first user interface of a plurality of data fields otherwise referred to as data items or data elements included in the selected database. In this regard the data fields that are presented in the first user interface are dynamically determined and displayed based on the user s selection of the database.

At Event a fourth user input is received that selects a data field from amongst the plurality of data fields and at Event a fifth user input is received that selects a search option. At Event in response to receiving the fifth user input that selects the search option data mapping information is determined for the selected data field and display of the data mapping information is provided within the first user interface display. The data mapping information may include but is not limited to table location and data field name of the selected data field within one or more other data systems databases of the business enterprise. In other embodiments of the method the data mapping information may include data type data field description and transformation type. Transformation type may include indication of a straight move i.e. no transformation required or indication of derivation logic. Moreover the data mapping information may additionally include data source information for the selected data field. The data source information may include but is not limited to the type of data source the data source table and the one or more data source data fields from which the selected data field originated or is derived from.

Referring to an exemplary user interface is shown for displaying data mapping information of a selected data field in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The user interface includes data model entry field and associated drop down menu key extract entry field and associated drop down menu key database entry field and associated drop down menu key and data field entry field and associated drop down menu key . As a means of implementing the application a user starts by activating down menu key to display the drop down menu of data models. The user then selects a data model from the drop down menu such as cards and the selection is displayed in data model entry field . Selection of a data model will dynamically identify the extracts associated with the data model that are displayed when the user activates the drop down key to display the drop down menu of extracts shown in .

The user then selects an extract from the drop down menu such as extract No. and the selection is displayed in extract entry field . Selection of an extract will dynamically identify the databases associated with the extract that are displayed when the user activates the drop down key to display a drop down menu of databases. The user selects a database from a drop down menu not shown in such as database No. and the selection is displayed in database entry field . Selection of a database will dynamically identify the data fields included in the database that are displayed when the user activates the drop down key to display a drop down menu of data fields. The user selects a data field from the drop down menu shown in such as data field No. and the selection is displayed in data field entry field .

The user interface additionally includes search option key that is activated by the user once the data model extract database and data field entry fields and have been populated.

Additionally user interface includes data system No. table panel data field panel data type panel and field description panel which may be populated with related data field mapping information associated with data system No. in response to the user activating search option key . For example as shown in table panel indicates Table X data field panel indicates Data Field Y data type panel indicates Data Type A and field description panel indicates text that describes the data field indicated in data field panel .

In addition user interface includes source information panel which may be populated with related data source mapping information in response to the user activating search option key . For example as shown in source information panel indicates Source Table B Source Data Field C Source Type D . Additionally user interface includes transformation type panel which may be populated with the transformation type used for transforming the source data field to the selected data field. For example as shown in the transformation type panel may indicate Straight Move i.e. no transformation required or derivation logic.

Moreover user interface includes panels for displaying data mapping information associated with other data systems such as data system No. data field panel data system No. table panel and data field and data system No. table panel data field panel data type panel and data field description panel which may be populated with related data field mapping information associated with data systems No. in response to the user activating search option key . For example as shown in data field panel indicates Data Field X table panel indicates Table C data field panel indicates Data Field R table panel indicates Table D data field panel indicated Data Field E data type window indicated Data Type F and field description panel indicates text that describes the data field indicated in data field panel .

User interface additionally includes reset form key that is activated by a user to clear all data entry fields and populated panels and home page key for returning the user to home page to select further functionality or exit the application.

Referring to an exemplary user interface is shown that provides display of upstream data source with calculation and downstream data field impact in accordance embodiments of the present invention. The user interface includes data model entry field and associated drop down menu key and data field entry field and associated drop down menu key . As a means of implementing the application a user starts by activating down menu key to display the drop down menu shown in of data models. The user then selects a data model from the drop down menu such as Cards and the selection is displayed in data model entry field . Selection of a data model will dynamically identify the data fields associated with the data model that are displayed when the user activates the drop down key to display the drop down menu of data fields not shown in . The user selects a data field from the drop down menu such as data field No. and the selection is displayed in data field entry field . The user interface additionally includes search option key that is activated by the user once the data model and data field entry fields and have been populated.

User interface additionally includes upstream data source panel and upstream calculation logic panel which may be populated with related upstream mapping information i.e. data fields and calculation logic associated with the selected data field e.g. Data Field No. in response to the user activating search option key . For example as shown in the data field panel indicates upstream data source on Condition B and Condition S and the calculation logic indicates the secondary data fields Conditions B and S used to calculate the selected data field e.g. Data Field No. and the calculation logic used to calculate derive the secondary data field.

Moreover user interface includes downstream impact panels and . Downstream impact panel which indicates first level downstream impact is configured to be populated with the related downstream mapping information i.e. data fields associated with the selected data field e.g. Data Field No. in response to the user activating search option key . If the user desires further downstream impact information the user may select a data field displayed in one of the downstream impact panels or and activate an associated Get Details key or to populate a next level downstream impact panel or the like with those data fields downstream impacted by the selected data field. In one specific embodiment of the invention the user interface is configured to provide for determination and display of up to seven levels of downstream data field impact. For example as shown in the initial level one downstream impact panel indicates downstream impact on Data Field Y . In the user has activated Get Details key to indicate in level two downstream impact panel that Data Field AB is downstream impacted by Data Field Y and the user has activated Get Details key to indicate in level three downstream impact panel that Data Fields AA AC R and Q are downstream impacted by Data Field AB.

User interface additionally includes reset form key that is activated by a user to clear all data entry fields and populated panels and home page key for returning the user to home page to select further functionality or exit the application.

Referring to shown is a user interface for request a data source report and an example of a resulting data source report in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The user interface includes a data source entry field and associated drop down menu key which is activated by a user to display drop down menu of authorized data sources. The user selects a data source from the drop down menu shown in such as data source No. and the selection is displayed in data source entry field . The user interface additionally includes report key that is activated by the user once the data source entry field has been populated.

Exemplary report shown in is generated and presented in response to the user activating report key of user interface . Example report includes columns shown in for current upstream data source number current upstream data source name current upstream data source application name indication of the data source being manual data element name and data element description . Additionally report includes columns for shown in for maximum value boundaries indication of data element being required indication of the data element being transformed . Transformation details logic indication of a point at which the data transformation occurs and reference data used for aggregation filter or transformation logic . Moreover report includes columns shown in for indication of data being obfuscated and means data type and underlying branch number .

Referring to a user interface is depicted for character searching of data fields within specified data systems databases and data source in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The user interface includes character option drop down menu which includes options for begins with ends with and contains . The user interface additionally includes character entry field configured to receive character text entry from the user. User interface additionally includes search option key which is activated by the user once the user has selected a search option from drop down menu and entered appropriate characters in character entry field .

User interface additionally includes data system No. data field panel data system No. data field panel data system No. data field panel and data source data field panel which are operative to display the data fields within the corresponding data system or data source that are responsive to the character option and character entry. For example in the illustrated embodiment of . the character option is Contains and the character entry is AVG such that panels and display all data fields within the respective data system or data source that contain the term phrase AVG .

User interface additionally includes reset key that is activated by a user to clear all data entry fields and populated panels and home page key for returning the user to home page to select further functionality or exit the application.

Lastly referring to a user interface is shown displaying extracts and tables within specified data models that map to a selected data field in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The user interface includes database entry field and associated drop down menu key and data field entry field and associated drop down menu key . As a means of implementing the application a user starts by activating down menu key to display the drop down menu not shown in of databases. The user then selects a database from the drop down menu such as Database and the selection is displayed in database entry field . Selection of a database will dynamically identify the data fields associated with the database that are displayed when the user activates the drop down key to display the drop down menu of data fields not shown in . The user selects a data field from the drop down menu such as data field No. and the selection is displayed in data field entry field . The user interface additionally includes search option key that is activated by the user once the database and data field entry fields and have been populated.

The user interface additionally includes data model No. extract table panel data model No. extract table panel data model No. extract table panel data model No. extract table panel and data model No. extract table panel which are configured to display the extracts and tables if the selected data field exists within an extract table of one or more data models. For example as shown in data model No. extract table panel indicates that the data field exists in Extract Table Y and Extract Table Z and data model No. extract table panel indicates that the data field exists in Extract Table A and Extract Table C .

User interface additionally includes reset key that is activated by a user to clear all data entry fields and populated panels and home page key for returning the user to home page to select further functionality or exit the application.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products described above provide for a comprehensive platform in which users can gain access to data mapping and linkage information associated with multiple data sources data systems databases within the systems and the like. As such the platform provides for time efficient and reliable data management data research and data validation which aids the user in comprehending the connections between data from different data sources and included within different data systems. In addition the data management platform provides for dynamic access to the downstream impact i.e. the data is used to calculate one or more data sources fields and upstream data sources and calculation logic i.e. the secondary data sources used to calculate the data impacts of such data.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

