---

title: Encryption on computing device
abstract: A first component of a cryptographic key is received from a user via a user interface of a user computing device. A second component of the cryptographic key is received via a short-range communication interface that communicatively couples the user computing device to a physically separate storage device. The cryptographic key is generated based at least on the first component and the second component. The cryptographic key is then used to encrypt and/or decrypt data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104889&OS=09104889&RS=09104889
owner: 
number: 09104889
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140507
---
This disclosure relates generally to providing data protection for a computing device and more particularly providing data protection for data contained on the computing device with using encryption of the data to block unauthorized access to the data.

One embodiment of the techniques of this disclosure is a method for generating cryptographic keys for encrypting and decrypting data which can be executed by one or more processors. The method includes i receiving a first component of a cryptographic key from a user via a user interface of a user computing device ii receiving a second component of the cryptographic key via a short range communication interface that communicatively couples the user computing device to a physically separate storage device iii generating the cryptographic key based at least on the first component and the second component and iv using the cryptographic key to encrypt and or decrypt data by the one or more processors.

Another embodiment of these techniques is a network server including a communication interface to communicatively couple the network server to a user computing device via a communication network and a processing hardware. The processing hardware is configured to receive a request for a cryptographic key from the user computing device where the request includes a first component of the cryptographic key the first component having been specified by a user of the user computing device. The processing hardware is further configured to automatically generate a second component of the cryptographic key in response to the request and provide the second component of the cryptographic key to the user device for storage on a storage device physically separate from the user computing device. The user computing device is configured to i generate the cryptographic key based at least on the first component and the second component of the cryptographic key and ii encrypt and or decrypt user selected data using the cryptographic key.

Yet another embodiment of these techniques is a method in a user computing device for efficiently encrypting and or decrypting data which can be executed on or more processors. The method includes i receiving an indication that a storage device physically separate from the user computing device is now communicatively coupled to the user computing device via a short range communication interface ii receiving by the one or more processors a first component of a cryptographic key from a user via a user interface iii retrieving from the storage device i a second component of the cryptographic key ii first control data and iii second control data corresponding to the first control data encrypted using a correct version of the cryptographic key iv generating the cryptographic key based at least on the first component and the second component and v determining whether the generated cryptographic key is correct using the first control data and the second control data.

Still another embodiment of these techniques is a network server including a communication interface to communicatively couple the network to a user computing device via a communication network a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that implement a data protection software module and processing hardware. The data protection software module when executed on one or more processors of the user computing device causes the user device to i receive a first component of a cryptographic key from a user via a user interface of the user computing device ii receive a second component of the cryptographic key via a short range communication interface that communicatively couples the user computing device to a physically separate storage device and iii generate a cryptographic key based at least on the first component and the second component for use in encrypting and or decrypting user selected data. The processing hardware configured to provide an instance of the data protection software module to the client device.

Through use of computing devices with respect to business or social interaction people today are being inundated with business technological and social related data and information. This data as a result is often stored on one s computing device s . Since much of this information may be considered sensitive and or confidential no one wants the information accessible to unauthorized persons that may come into possession of their computing device. One approach to protecting this information is to encrypt the information on the computing device with the use of encryption decryption techniques such as Advanced Encryption Standard AES or the like. The encryption decryption software will encrypt the sensitive and or confidential information stored on the computing device and in turn permit access to the information by the authorized user using the software to decrypt the information when access to the information is needed.

Data files that will often be encrypted will include for example audio video and text files and the like and will be often stored in an encrypted state on the computing device. As mentioned above the software employed to encrypt and decrypt these files will include AES another commonly known encryption decryption algorithms which utilize a key or a customized software designed to operate on the devices discussed below. The key is typically a parameter associated with the encryption decryption software that when employed in association with the encryption decryption software will transform the data into an encrypted state one that is not understandable to a viewer. It will also transform that encrypted data back to its original unencrypted state so as to be easily understood by the viewer. In the unfortunate instance of an unauthorized person coming into possession of another s computing device the unauthorized person is only separated from using the encryption and decryption software successfully to transform the stored data into an understandable state by not having the correct key. The key is typically created or set by the authorized user of the computing device in the form of a password.

These passwords can be compromised in any number of ways which include obtaining the password from the authorized user who has not properly secured the identity of the password. Once in possession of the password or key in this example the unauthorized user will have complete access to correctly use the encryption decryption software stored on the computing device and thereby be able to successfully decrypt encrypted files and access the data of those decrypted files. An object to this disclosure is to provide additional layers of security or depth of security as to preventing an unauthorized user from acquiring the identity of a key. By further securing the identity of the key the unauthorized user will not be able to access the encrypted confidential and or sensitive data stored on the computing device.

In this disclosure the key for correctly running the encryption decryption software must first be fully assembled from component parts which originate from separate sources. One component part of the key will be stored on a peripheral storage device. This one component as will be discussed in more detail below will have been previously randomly generated by an online security service and downloaded onto the user s peripheral storage device via the user s computing device at a time in which the user registers with the online security service. The peripheral storage device can be used within a short range of the computing device. With the computing device interfacing with the peripheral storage device the computing device will automatically read the one component portion of the key stored on the peripheral device. In using the peripheral storage device after the initial registering with an online security service the one component of the key is transferred to the computing device from the storage device without user interaction. Additionally this peripheral storage device at the time of user registration with the online security service will also download additional data from the online security service in order to authenticate itself which will be discussed in more detail below.

In this disclosure another component part of the key will be needed to add to the one component of the key that has already been contributed by the peripheral storage device in order to assemble a complete and operable key. A complete key is needed otherwise the encryption decryption software stored on the computing device will not properly encrypt and decrypt data. The other component of the key will be one generated or created by the user also at the time the user registers their computing device with the online security service. For purposes of successfully operating the encryption decryption software on the computing device the user will have to input this other component of the key typically a password into the computing device through an input device such as a keyboard or other commonly known input device.

With the user having the peripheral storage device interface with the computing device contributing one component of the key and the user in putting the password the other component of the key the key is fully assembled. As mentioned above the user s computing device will run an authentication or verification routine that will determine if the storage device is the proper one with a correct one component of the key and will also further verify whether the user has input the correct password or other component of the key thereby verifying the correct completion of the assembly of the key. If the key is verified the user will be able to use the key successfully with the encryption decryption software on the computing device to encrypt and decrypt data files on the computing device for that session.

Depending on the embodiment a session during which an assembled key is valid can stay active while the user is logged in while the peripheral storage device is connected to the computing device while the computing device is powered on while a timer is running or subject to any other suitable condition s . The session accordingly can end when the users logs out shuts down the computing device removes the peripheral storage device etc.

During an active session the encryption decryption software of this disclosure can access the assembled key in a volatile non persistent memory such as RAM. The encryption decryption software does not store the assembled key in a persistent memory. In general the assembled key is not stored anywhere in a persistent memory except in a database maintained by the online security service as discussed in more detail below. When the session is no longer active the assembled key is purged from the non persistent memory so that the encryption decryption software can no longer encrypt or decrypt data. To start a new session the user will once again need to provide login password information defining one of the component parts of the key.

If the user fails to successfully establish a session for failure to supply the proper password corresponding to one of the component parts of the key insert the correct peripheral device etc. the encryption decryption software cannot properly encrypt data or decrypt previously encrypted files. In one embodiment the encryption decryption software does not prevent the user from operating the computing device when a session fails. However the user in this case cannot decrypt previously encrypted files or encrypt new data. The user still can for example use the other functionality of the computing device. Further if the user chooses to create new files he or she cannot protect these files using the encryption techniques of this disclosure.

An embodiment of assembling the component parts of the decryption and encryption key from separate sources would include using a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive as the peripheral storage device that will store the one component or portion of the key. The USB flash drive will be inserted into the USB port of the computing device and will automatically interface with the computing device uploading the one component of the key to the computing device. The other component or portion of the key that will be needed to complete a functional key will be a password created by the authorized user also during the registration process with the security online security service. The user will be prompted to enter this other component of the key onto the computing device and the user will enter it through an input device of the computing device such as a keyboard. The software downloaded onto the user s computing device by the online security service at the time of registration will run a verification process of the assembled key now that one component and the other component have been entered onto the computing device. The verification will generally include utilizing a test file and applying the complete key with the encryption decryption software to decrypt the test file that was previously encrypted and downloaded onto the peripheral device during registration. That encrypted test file was encrypted with the correct complete key and the encryption decryption software or using the same encryption decryption technique. The unencrypted version of this test file was also downloaded on the peripheral storage device at the time of registration. The encrypted test file is now subjected to the complete key assembled from one component stored on the peripheral device and the other component input by the user along with the encryption decryption software that had been downloaded by the online security service onto the computing device during registration. The encrypted file is thusly transformed and compared to see if it matches the unencrypted test file. If there is a match the peripheral storage device is the correct one carrying one component of the key and the password input by the user was correct completing the assembling of the complete key. This authentication process will be discussed in more detail below. Should the test result be a successful match the user is informed the proper key has been assembled and the user can now proceed to utilize the encryption decryption software with the completed key to successfully encrypt and decrypt data on their computing device.

Thus to gain access to the encrypted information on the computing device the user must be in possession of the computing device the correct peripheral storage device containing one component of the key and the other component or password portion of the key which had been created by the authorized user. Thus additional security is provided herein with the user having to not only be in possession of the computing device but also in this embodiment the proper USB flash drive device carrying the one component of the key and of the password which comprises the other component of the key in order to fully assemble a complete key and be able to successfully operate the encryption decryption software on that computing device. The user is then capable of successfully carrying out decryption and encryption functions with the encryption decryption software which had been stored on the computing device during the user s registration process with the online security service.

As will be discussed in more detail herein a user that wishes to protect the data stored on their computing device will register with an online security service. At that time the user will be asked to provide the online security service information identifying the user credit card information and the identity of the computing device. During this registration process the online security service will install on the user s computing device the encryption decryption software for encrypting and decrypting information to be stored on the computing device. As mentioned above this encryption decryption software for this embodiment will be AES however any other higher level known standard encryption decryption algorithm may be used. During the installation of this software onto the computing device the user will be asked to insert a peripheral storage device or in this embodiment a USB flash drive into the USB port of the computing device. The online security service will install onto the USB flash drive one component of the key for the encryption decryption software which the online security service randomly generated. The online security service will also provide the user s computing device with a software module for authenticating the USB drive. Additionally the user will be asked to create a password in this embodiment which will be the other component to assembling a complete key. The password created by the user will allow the online security service to use this password along with the one component of the key it had randomly generated to complete the key. These two components of the key will need to be assembled through actions of the user on occasions when the user needs to successfully encrypt and decrypt data on their computing device. In this embodiment in the subscription and registering process with the key being completed and the encryption decryption software installed the user will be asked whether all of the stored data files shall be encrypted or whether data files will be encrypted as selected by the user. This registration process will be discussed in more detail herein.

Once the user has registered with the online security service by registering themselves the computing device downloading the encryption software uploading their peripheral storage device with one component of the key and authentication software and has created a password that comprises the other component for completing the key the user has taken the steps they need to protect confidential and or sensitive data files stored on their computing device. An unauthorized user being in possession of the computing device but not having access to the external peripheral storage device such as the USB flash drive which carries in this embodiment one component of the key or access to the authorized user s password the other component to the key or both the unauthorized user will not be able to successfully access or view the confidential and or sensitive stored encrypted data on the computing device.

Encryption and decryption appears seamless to the user of the computing device. In particular the user at some point selects a certain set of files such as for example the entire hard drive one or several folders all text files etc. The user subsequently accesses these files during active sessions see above without being notified or prompted about every encryption or decryption operation. For example when the user opens or saves of these files saves one of these files the encryption decryption software automatically performs the encryption or decryption operation in a seamless manner without distracting the user. To this end as illustrated in the encryption decryption software can operate in a kernel model for example to reside as a software layer between applications e.g. text editors graphics editors browsers and operating system calls for accessing hardware components such as the hard disk.

In another embodiment with the authorized user having assembled the key with inserting the USB flash drive and entering the password the user can select a particular file and decrypt it. The file can be closed out and the data will remain stored as an encrypted file. New data may be entered into a decrypted file or a new file can be created and with saving either the file with the new data is encrypted. Thus using the saving function will encrypt the file.

At the time of registration the online security service will securely store the registration data including the identity of the user and of the computing device along with the randomly generated one component of the key for that user and the user s other component of the key or password. As a result the user will be able to subsequently contact the online security service for a number of services related to maintaining the security of their computing device. These services could include assistance in retrieving a password that was forgotten or changing it. The user may have broken destroyed or lost their peripheral storage device. Under those circumstances the online security service will also assist the user in replacing the one component of the key or providing a new one component of the key with respect to that which was stored on the peripheral storage device at the time of original subscription and registration. These services will be provided by the online security service with the normal security measures taken to assure the requester is the authorized user of the registered computing device. These measures can include requiring the user to respond to a question to provide very private personal information to the online security service at the time of registration and ask the current requester the same question and match the answer to the original answer provided at the time of registration and if there is a match the online security service will provide the requested services.

In referring to a block diagram is shown that schematically illustrates an embodiment of the method of the present disclosure to encrypt and decrypt data stored on a computing device. In order to carry out this method encryption and decryption software will have been downloaded on the computing device and will be executable by one or more processors on the computing device. The software will operate in conjunction with a complete key associated with that software on data stored or being stored on the computing device. The step of encryption and decryption of data stored on a computing device is represented by box . In this embodiment the encryption and decryption step will only be able to be successfully carried out to encrypt and decrypt data on the computing device as mentioned above with a complete key assembled and working in conjunction with the encryption and decryption software.

One component which is stored on peripheral storage device automatically downloads onto the peripheral storage device interfacing with the computing device. In this embodiment device is a USB flash drive and it interfaces with computing device by inserting the USB flash drive into the USB port of the computing device. This one component of the key was previously randomly generated and uploaded to the USB flash drive by an online security service during the subscription and registration process with the user. The other component of the key will be input into the computing device by way of user input . In this embodiment the other component of the key will be a password that was created by the user during the registration process between the user and the online security service and is input into the computing device with a keyboard connected to the computing device however other inputs can be employed.

The components and can equally contribute to the overall strength of the key or provide different contributions to the overall strength of the key depending on the embodiment. Thus in one embodiment each of the components and occupies the same number of bytes. In another embodiment component is relatively short e.g. six characters occupying six bytes while component is relatively long e.g. 26 characters occupying 26 bytes .

With the two components of the key and present on the computing device the complete key has been assembled and is an operable parameter that works in conjunction with the encryption and decryption software. The software can now be executed successfully on the data on the computing device to carry out the step of encryption decryption of the data the user has selected.

As will later be described in more detail when the user initially subscribes and registers their computing device with the online security service the complete key will be assembled at that time and the encryption decryption software having been uploaded onto the computing device the user will in this embodiment be asked to elect to proceed with the encryption of all files stored on the computing device or to elect to proceed to encrypt those files selected by the user that are stored files on the computing device. In either case the user will be permitting the encryption decryption software to operate on stored data in the step of encryption and decryption resulting in the step of creating encrypted data .

Subsequent to the initial registration process the user will be able to create encrypted data on their computing device in the presence of a fully assembled key and the encryption decryption software that is executable by a processor on the computing device by selecting file s that are not encrypted and saving the file s . This will result in the operation of the software of the encryption decryption step thereby encrypting that data creating encrypted data . Also the user can save edited versions of unencrypted data they are working on their computing device or save new stand alone data they have created or placed on their computing device thereby operating the software of the encryption decryption step which will also result in encrypted data .

On the other hand in the presence of the fully assembled or complete key on the computing device and the encryption and decryption software executable on the computing device the user can decrypt previously encrypted information or data files stored on the computing device. The user can select a previously encrypted stored data file on the computing device to view for example and the step of encryption decryption will operate on the encrypted data and accordingly transform the data thereby creating decrypted data . In some embodiments the decryption is seamless and the user does not notice the file is being decrypted. For example the user can simply select the file for reading and the step of encryption decryption executes automatically.

In referring to a block diagram is shown that schematically illustrates a method for verification of the removable peripheral storage device . This verification process includes a control input control output and one component being stored on the removable storage device during the registration process with the online security service. In this embodiment authenticating peripheral storage device is a step taken before any decryption or encryption of data takes place on the computing device. In this embodiment at a time the user wants to decrypt a particular data file stored on their computing device or wants to encrypt data the user will need to connect the peripheral storage device to interface with the computing device. As mentioned earlier in this example this will be accomplished by inserting USB flash drive into USB port of the computing device. In one embodiment this will automatically trigger execution of a peripheral device authentication software on the computing device which will retrieve one component of the key from peripheral storage device that was earlier randomly generated by the online security service at the time the user registered and subscribed to the security service .

In this embodiment the control input file and the control output file that were downloaded onto the peripheral storage device are text files but can be any data that can be encrypted and decrypted with encryption decryption software such as AES or other encryption and decryption algorithms. During the registration process as will be discussed in more detail below a complete key was assembled that operates as a parameter in conjunction with the encryption decryption software the online security service also downloaded onto the computing device during the registration process. Control input file is a text file in this example that was encrypted with the complete key and the encryption decryption software before it was downloaded onto the memory of the peripheral storage device in the registration process. The control output file is the unencrypted version of the control input file which was stored in the memory of the peripheral storage device as well.

With the USB flash drive inserted into the USB port of the computing device the one component of the key is automatically uploaded onto the computing device. The user will be prompted by the computing device by way of the encryption decryption software on the computing device to enter the other component of the key by way of user interface or in this example the computing device keyboard. With both components of key and present control input file is forwarded from the memory of the peripheral storage device to the computing device and subjected to the encryption decryption software and the step of encryption decryption is executed on control input file thereby encrypting control input file . The result of this decryption of control input file is forwarded to a comparator of the verification software downloaded by the online security service during the registration process. The decrypted control input file is compared to the control output file which has also been forwarded from the memory of the peripheral storage device and if the comparison of decrypted control input file equates or is the same as control output file the verification of the peripheral storage device has been accomplished. At this point the user can proceed to encrypt and decrypt data on the computing device. If the comparison of the decrypted control input file and control output file results in them not equating or being the same the user will not be able to exercise successful encryption and decryption operations on the computing device. In either case the peripheral device authentication software can provide an appropriate notification via the user interface of the computing device.

In another embodiment comparator can compare two encrypted versions of a same file. In other words control input file can be unencrypted and control output file encrypted versions of a same file. Encryption decryption step in this case performs to encryption rather than decryption.

In referring to it is a block diagram of an example computing system in which encryption decryption and key management techniques of this disclosure can be implemented. In the embodiment shown in a security providing service system operates through data protection server providing the user of a computing device a service as described herein for protecting the data stored on the user s computing device from access by an unauthorized user in possession of the computing device .

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that data protection server could include a single server that performs all of the functions described below or could be divided into any number of servers as desired. This server is connected to the network which could be a variety of network types such as the Internet a LAN a WAN cellular WiFi etc. The user that wishes to subscribe to the security service for securing data stored on their computing device that is provided by data protection server will access the data protection server through network with their personal computing device also being connected to network . Personal computing device could comprise a wide variety of devices such as a desk top computer lap top computer notebook tablet computer smart phone etc. The security service system of the present embodiment will accommodate and be operable with the operating system of computing device which can be Windows Mac OS Android etc.

Server will support a web service that will exchange data with common formats such as XML JSON and the like. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art this embodiment will utilize one of C and C language for driver programming. Also in this embodiment C will be combined with C C for use with Windows Platform for example on the personal computing device . The web service supported by data protection server can be accessed from computing devices via a web site that includes instructions in HTML or another suitable language. The website supported by data protection server will work on common browsers such as Internet Explorer Firefox Chrome Opera Safari and others.

The user seeking a security service will connect to the website through use of their browser. The website will provide the user an array of security packages to select from as for example one user with one computing device to secure one user with multiple computing devices to secure or family subscription with multiple devices to secure. The user will select the appropriate plan that will suit for them and proceed with the registration process for that plan.

Data protection server will store and implement software for the security service. This software can be in one or more modules downloadable onto the personal computing device or another suitable computing device. Some of the modules can be configured to execute on personal computers and other user devices as client components of the authentication system. In this embodiment there are two modules password management system and data protection module that will be used to implement some of functionality the security service on user computing devices. Once the user has selected the desired plan or package they wish to subscribe to password management system module will be used to provide the user web pages to be populated by the user in order to collect information in registering the new user and their computing device to the security service. The information requested will include in this embodiment their name address e mail address and banking information such as a credit card information. The user will be asked to execute a payment for the package or plan they had selected. With the payment transaction successfully completed the password management system will provide the new user queries for creating a user name and password for logging into the security service web site.

With the user name and password completed password management system module in this embodiment will assign a user identification UID number with the data collected above from the new user. Module will transmit the UID and the data collected above as customer subscription data to database which comprises one or more computing devices with non transitory memory readable by one or more processors. The database can be for example a relational database in which customer subscription data is accessible using SQL queries.

The new user will then be asked by the web page provided by module to identify the computing device s to be protected by the security service. In some embodiments this information in this embodiment will include the make model and serial number of the computing device s . This data will likewise be stored in database under the UID number as customer subscription data . A customer account has now been created. Module will also manage and interface with the subscriber new user to provide the new user services related to implementing the security service to the user s computing device s and to provide services related to supporting and maintaining the security service for the user.

With the user now registered the password management system module will randomly generate one component of a key that will be used to assist in assembling a complete key used in conjunction to successfully operate encryption decryption software with this service. Through password module the website will inform the user encryption decryption software will be downloaded onto computing device and will cause an instance of data protection module to be downloaded onto computing device . With the downloading of the encryption decryption software commenced the password module informs user through a web page to connect peripheral storage device to computing device as mentioned previously in this embodiment to plug in USB flash drive into the USB port of the computing device . The password module sends one component key that was randomly generated by password module to computing device wherein the one component is stored on peripheral storage device and at the same time in this embodiment password module transmits this one component of the key to data base to be stored as part of encryption key information associated with the UID number of this particular user.

During the downloading process of the encryption decryption software onto computing device password module will request by way of a web page sent to the new subscriber to create a password. This password will operate as the other component of the key. This password will be transmitted from computing device to data protection server wherein password module will transmit this password or other component of the key to database to be stored as encryption key information in association with this user s UID. At this point password module will assemble a complete key from one component and other component . This complete key which is now associated with this particular user is used by password module in conjunction with the encryption decryption software of data protection module to encrypt a file that was randomly generated by password module . As mentioned above this file could take many forms of information that can be encrypted and decrypted by the software. In this embodiment it is a text file. The encrypted text file is downloaded to peripheral storage device through computing device . This encrypted file is control input file . The unencrypted version of this file is transmitted to peripheral storage device from password module through computing device as control output file .

During the registration process with encryption decryption software downloaded as data protection module and completely assembled key present from one component from peripheral storage device and the other component or password present on computing device the user will provided a query as to whether they want all stored files on computing device or select files stored on computing device encrypted. The user will make a selection and the process will commence to encrypt stored files resulting in encrypted files . The user can choose to log off and will have now armed their computing device to be able to more securely protect stored files on computing device . At that point user can then separate their peripheral storage device from computing device and secure device . The next time user wishes to use computing device to access stored encrypted data or to receive or create data that it wishes to encrypt user plugs USB flash drive or peripheral storage device into connection with computing device such as USB port and goes through the peripheral storage device verification process as described earlier. With storage device authenticated the user can commence decrypting and encrypting files on computing device .

Password management module will also allow a user who will access the web site supported by data protection server to request a retrieval of their password from encryption key information stored in database . This may occur with the password of the user having been lost forgotten or compromised. Additionally password management module will also permit a user to change their password for similar reasons. Each of these steps of retrieval and changing of passwords will be accompanied by security steps to assure the user to be associated with the particular customer account prior to going through either of these processes as discussed above.

Password management module will operate to authenticate the requester. As mentioned earlier at the time of registration the user will have been asked at least one question so as to provide certain very private information related to the user. This information will be stored by module into data base as customer subscription data in association with the UID. At the time the request is made by the user the user will be provided the same question asked at the time of registration and the user will provide an answer that will be compared by password management module to the answer provided by user at the time of registration that is stored in customer subscription data . If there is a match password management module will proceed to retrieve or allow the user to change the password. A changed password will be forwarded by module to database and stored in encryption key information in association with the UID of the user in replacement of the former password.

Password management system module as mentioned above will at the time of registration randomly generate one component for the key for the user. This one component is transmitted from module by data protection server to peripheral storage device through computing device and stored on peripheral storage device . One component is also transmitted from module to data base as encryption key information in association with the user UID at the time of registration. Thus for example if a user loses or breaks their peripheral storage device the user will contact the web page supported by data protection server and module and request either a retrieval or new one component . With the matching of very private information as described above with respect to password password module will proceed to retrieve or generate a new as requested one component . The user will be instructed through a web page to connect their peripheral storage device so that module can transmit one component data through computing device and store it onto peripheral storage device . Depending on the circumstances authentication software from password module along with input control file and output control file can also be downloaded from module through computing device and stored onto peripheral storage device . Thus the online security service can provide services to the user to enable the user to continue to secure their data on their computing device .

It is noted that peripheral storage device can be a dedicated storage device such as a USB flash drive discussed above or any other device having storage capability that can be communicatively coupled to personal computing device . For example a user can store files and on a smartphone with which personal computing device can set up a USB connection or a wireless connection as a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN for example. As another example a wearable computer e.g. a smart watch can store the files and and wirelessly connect to personal computing device .

Now referring to it is a block diagram of an example user computing device that can operate in the computing system of . Personal computing device as mentioned earlier can comprise a desk top computer lap top computer or notebook or the like. Computing device has a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI which in this embodiment would comprise a screen a keyboard a mouse speakers etc. A network interface is also provided to permit computing device to interconnect with network in a wired or wireless manner. Computing device further includes a peripheral device interface that will permit other devices such as a USB flash drive or keyboard to be connected to computing device and communicate therewith. One or more processors are provided to execute the software stored on non persistent memory of the computing device such as on Random Access Memory or RAM which stores such software programs as device driver software web browser data protection module which in this example carries the encryption decryption module and operating system software which may include systems such as DOS OS 2 Windows Linux Mac etc. Computing device further includes persistent memory such as a hard disk flash drive etc. which will store files and in this embodiment will store encrypted files that have been encrypted by encryption decryption software within data protection module as shown in and will also store unencrypted files of user.

As schematically illustrated in data protection module can operate similar to a device driver in a kernel mode unlike web browser for example which runs in user mode. In this manner the encryption and decryption can be achieved more seamlessly as various software applications such as text editing software can invoke the encryption decryption functionality of this disclosure similar to the functionality of OS .

In an embodiment RAM also stores a complete key generated based on components and . Complete key can be purged from RAM once the user shuts down computing device logs off or issues an explicit command. In this manner data protection module can use complete key to encrypt and decrypt files while the current user session is active.

In general peripheral device interface can support any wired or wireless short range communication link via which personal computing device can communicate with a peripheral storage device. Some of the examples of a suitable interface include a serial RS232 connection USB IEEE 802.15 Bluetooth IEEE 802.11n WiFi Direct etc.

In referring to it is a block diagram of an example software module that can be implemented in the user device of to encrypt and decrypt data using two component keys and . Data protection module in this embodiment will include a key management module a peripheral storage device authentication module and encryption decryption engine . Encryption decryption engine in this embodiment comprises AES however it may comprise any comparable or higher level known standard encryption decryption software may be used. With both components of the key provided in this embodiment one component or Key 1 is the component of the key that was randomly generated by the online security service at the time the user registered with the online security service wherein one component was stored on USB flash drive. One component of the key is stored onto USB flash drive plugged into the USB port of computing device during the registration process. The other component of the key or Key 2 is provided by the user as a password inputted into computing device such as through use of a keyboard of computing device . This password was created at the time of registration with the online security service as well. With both Key 1 and Key 2 provided to key management module the complete key is assembled and is provided as an operative parameter to encryption decryption engine . With complete key present with encryption decryption engine a user can select a file or save a file and the file will be encoded . Similarly with a fully assembled key and the encryption decryption engine in the presence of an encrypted file encrypted file can be properly decrypted.

Authentication module can receive Key 1 and Key 2 assemble a complete key verify that the assembled key is correct using the techniques discussed in more detail below and store the complete key in RAM if the complete key is correct.

Although data protection module in the illustrated embodiments is downloaded from data protection server in general a user can obtain data protection module from any suitable source via any suitable carrier of computer software e.g. CD DVD flash drive . In one example embodiment the user can download data protection module from a server associated with an online application app store. This server can operate independently and separately from server . Data protection module can be platform specific so that the online app store can provide one version for a computing device that executes Windows another version that executes Mac OS etc. In another embodiment the user installs data protection module from a compact disc CD .

Further the security system of this disclosure need not provide all components that make data protection module in all embodiments. Thus encryption decryption engine can be provided as a service of an operating system of the computing device. Key management module in these cases can interface with this service using an appropriate application programming interface API exposed by the operating system.

In one example embodiment key management module generates a complete key by simply appending Key 2 to the end of Key 1. Thus if Key 1 is an user selected alphanumeric string and Key 2 is a sequence of hexadecimal values key management module can assemble the complete key by appending the sequence of hexadecimal values defining Key 2 to the sequence of hexadecimal values corresponding to Key 1. More generally Key 1 and Key 2 can be combined in any suitable manner such as by interleaving the sequences of values defining Key 1 and Key 2 respectively.

In referring to is a block diagram of an example data protection server that can operate in the computing system of . As mentioned earlier data protection server may comprise one or more servers. Server will comprise one or more processor s network interface and RAM much like computing device described earlier. RAM will store in this example two software modules password management system and data protection module . Processor will be used to execute module and operate network interface permitting server to communicate with network .

In referring to is a block diagram of an example software system that can be implemented in the server of to manage keys and provide other functions related to encryption and decryption techniques of this disclosure. The user of the security service as described earlier must first register with the online security service. The user communicates with server using computing device wherein in this example both are connected to the internet network . As mentioned earlier user contacts server which along with password management system supports a web page for the security providing system . By way of user input and network interface user is in communication with password management system .

In the first instance of communicating with the web page provided the new user registers with online security service by way of new user registration module of password management system . The new user will be asked to select from different packages offered by the online security service as discussed earlier. The user will provide input selecting the package the user desires to obtain. The new user will be provided questions to answer from a web page provided such as in this embodiment the name of the new user their address their e mail address and banking information such as a credit card of the new user. The new user will be asked by new user registration module in this embodiment to execute a payment to the online security service for the package they had selected. At that point with a satisfactory payment received by the online security service module will provide new user queries for creating a user name and a password for entering the system. With user name and password completed module assigns a user identification UID number along with the selection of the package and all information at this point collected from the user and forwards the UID and data collected to customer data password database interface and it is all then forwarded to database and is stored as customer subscription data .

The new user will receive further queries by way of a web page in this embodiment from new device registration module . The web page will ask the new user to register the device s that are under the package or plan the user chose. In this embodiment the user will be asked to provide some information about the computing device such as the make model and serial number of computing device that will protected under this security service. This information will be sent to customer database interface and forwarded to database and stored as customer subscription data . In this embodiment this data is sent along with the UID and is stored in association with the previous data stored with the same UID. A new customer account has been created.

With the user registered key generation module of password management system randomly generates one component of the key. This one component is transmitted to the customer data interface and to database and stored under the UID of the new customer as customer subscription data . In this embodiment key generation module through a web page will inform the user the encryption decryption software will be downloaded onto computing device and will commence downloading an instance of the data protection module . With the downloading of the encryption decryption software commenced system informs user though a web page to connect peripheral storage device to computing device . In this example USB flash drive is plugged into USB port of computing device . Key generation module sends one component key to computing device wherein the one component is stored on peripheral storage device and at the same time in this embodiment key generation module transmits the one component of the key to data base to be stored as encryption key information associated with the UID number of this particular user. In some embodiments data protection module once downloaded and installed on personal computing device automatically attempts to locate a peripheral storage device communicates with system to obtain a key and otherwise set up subsequent encryption and decryption on personal computing device .

While the data protection module is being downloaded onto the memory of computing device in this embodiment password change recovery module will send a web page to computing device requesting the subscriber to create the other component of the key or a password for the operation of the security system. This password will be transmitted by the computing device of the user to server wherein password module transmits this other component of the key to customer interface and to database and enters it into customer subscription data associated with the UID number of that particular user.

At this point database has stored both components and of the key. Password module assembles components and of the key and in conjunction with the encryption decryption software of data protection module encrypts a file it has randomly generated. In this embodiment it is a text file however it can be any file that is subject to be being encrypted and decrypted by the encryption decryption software. Password module transmits the unencrypted file to computing device to be stored on peripheral storage device as control output file . Password module also transmits to computing device the corresponding encrypted file to computing device to be stored as control input file .

Password management system also will allow a user to enter the web site of the online security service that is supported by server and through a web page provided by password change recovery module request a recovery or retrieval of their password or other component of the key that is stored in customer subscription data . This may occur upon the user forgetting the password or password has been compromised. As discussed earlier once the user has logged into the web site of the online security service and has requested such a retrieval the web page will exercise a security step prior to carrying out the request. The web page will ask at least one question that user had provided the answer to at the time of registration. This information is typically very private in nature as it relates to the user. With a match answer received by module password change recovery module will proceed to retrieve the password stored in customer subscription data and transmit the same to computing device to the user.

This same security procedure will be used for the user to be able to change their password or other component of the key. The procedure for changing the password will require in this embodiment the user to forward from computing device two copies of the new password for accuracy verification. The new password will be stored as customer subscription data in database . In addition this new other component or password will now have to be used to construct a new key. The user will be asked to connect their peripheral storage device password change recovery module will take the new password and combine it with the one component of the key to assemble a new complete key. This new key will be used to encrypt another file in this instance a text file and forward it to computing device for it to be stored on peripheral storage device as control input file and an unencrypted version of that file will be sent to computing device to be stored as control output file . As a note the old complete key could be assembled by module and provide user with the corresponding control input file and control output file in order for user to access their stored encrypted files and decrypt them. At that point the user can utilize the new complete key with the new control input file and control output file and begin encrypting and decrypting files with the new complete key.

To make this procedure appear seamless for the user password management system automatically re encrypts using the new key those files that were encrypted using the old key. It is noted however that this procedure may consume a noticeable amount of time.

As mentioned above key generation module would randomly generate one component of the key for the user at the time of registration. This one component was stored as customer subscription data in database and was stored on the user s peripheral storage device as well. Thus at a time for example the user loses their peripheral storage device or it is broken or stolen the user will not be able to encrypt or decrypt data on their computing device without this one component of the key that was stored on the peripheral storage device . As a result the user will contact the online security service s web page log in and request a retrieval of the one component of the key. The user will be security cleared as mentioned above with respect to retrieval or change of the other component of the key or password. Key retrieval module will retrieve one component of the key from customer subscription data on database . The user will be asked to connect their peripheral storage device to their computing device and module will transmit one component of the key to computing device to be stored on peripheral storage device . If at that time it was a new peripheral storage device user would be asked for receiving control input file that was encrypted by module and for the corresponding unencrypted file control output file . Should the user need files and they would also be forwarded by module to computing device to be stored on peripheral storage device . The user would be provided the needed authentication software to authenticate the peripheral storage device as would be transmitted to the computing device by module and stored on peripheral storage device . With respect to creating a new one component a new key would need to be assembled and creating new control input and control output files would need to be generated and stored on peripheral storage device . Also the user may need to have the previous one component of the key and the corresponding control input and control output files created in order for the user to operate to decrypt encrypted files under the earlier regimen of a different complete key with its corresponding different authentication set up.

As a result the online security service can provide various needed services through a web page supported by server . The user can access the web page with its computing device through the internet network . In this way the user may change passwords retrieve passwords retrieve one component of the key obtain control input file control output file and the needed software to carry out authentication of the peripheral storage device .

In referring to it is a flow diagram of an example method for creating a pair of keys and generating authentication information for a removable storage device which can be implemented in the user computing device of . With computing device connected to data protection server through internet network connection in this embodiment and the account opened by the user as described above step commences with data protection module being downloaded and or installed onto computing device . Data protection module can include key management module and or encryption decryption engine . In step the web site of the online security service which is supported by server will prompt user to insert peripheral storage device into their computing device . Key generation module will randomly generate one component of the key or first key in step . The web site of the online security service will notify user to create a second key or other component step and forward the same from computing device to be received by server through network interface . In this embodiment password management system through password change recovery module will assemble a complete or main key from one component and other component of the key in step . Password management system will generate authentication data with using the complete or main key in conjunction with encryption decryption software of data protection module and encrypts a file it randomly generated. This file is an encryptable and decryptable file with respect to the encryption decryption software. In this embodiment the file is a text file and it is encrypted while maintaining an unencrypted version of the file as well for step . The encrypted version of the file is forwarded to computing device and stored on the peripheral storage device as control input file and the unencrypted version of that file is forwarded to computing device and stored on peripheral device as control output file in step .

In referring to it is a flow diagram of an example method for encrypting data using one component of a key stored on a removable storage device and another component of the key submitted by a user which can be implemented in the user computing device of . In the illustrated embodiment user login can be detected at block . This event can trigger the creation of a new session during which data is seamlessly encrypted and or decrypted. More generally a session can begin in response to any one of suitable events such as connection to a peripheral storage device or a user command for example.

The encryption decryption software can commence the process of assembling the encryption key by obtaining one component of a key for encrypting from a peripheral storage device as step . In this embodiment one component of the key was stored on the peripheral storage device by the online security service randomly generating it at the time of registration. The user then needs to provide another component of the key which the user had created at the time of registration by the user to the encryption decryption software in putting it into computing device through a user interface such as a keyboard as step . The next step is for the key to be assembled on computing device with using one component and another component .

With the complete key assembled and encryption decryption software stored on the computing device at the time of registration an encryption decryption session begins in step . In particular the assembled key may be stored in volatile memory for the duration of the session. During the session one or several files that require encryption or decryption are captured in step . These files are encrypted or decrypted in step using the key assembled for the session. If an event indicating that the session completed is detected in step the flow returns to block where additional file s may be captured . Otherwise the flow proceeds to step where the key is removed from the volatile memory.

In referring to it is a flow diagram of an example method for authenticating a removable storage device storing a key. The method in this embodiment includes a user in operation of their computing device wishing to either encrypt decrypt data on their computing device . User will request the encryption decryption of the data which will use one component of the key which is stored on peripheral storage device as step . The user will be prompted to provide the other component of the key in step which as discussed earlier would be a password in this embodiment. At which point user can enter other component by way of user interface or keyboard of computing device in step in this example. With one component and other component of the key the main or complete key is assembled in step .

With the main key assembled and the encryption decryption engine present from data protection module a randomly generated file by password change module as discussed above in this embodiment the randomly generated file is generated by module and encrypted. The encrypted version is stored on the peripheral storage device as control input as step the corresponding unencrypted version of the file is stored on the peripheral storage device as control output and the one component of the key is also stored on peripheral storage device .

With the encrypted version of the file or control input file in step is decrypted by the complete or main key comprising components and in conjunction with encryption decryption engine and the now decrypted input control file is compared to corresponding unencrypted file in step . If there is a match yes peripheral storage device is authenticated at step . This means the main key was properly assembled and used with the encryption decryption engine and user can proceed to encrypt and decrypt files on their computing device . The main key is stored in RAM or other type of volatile memory in step for the duration of the session. However if there was not a match between the decrypted control input file and the control output file no the peripheral storage device fails to authenticate in step meaning one or both of the components and of the key were wrong thereby indicating the storage device is not the correct device carrying the correct one component of the key or the other component of the key was not correct. In either instance the user will not be able to successfully proceed to encrypt and decrypt files on the computing device . Accordingly in step the session is prevented from being activated so that previously encrypted files cannot be decrypted and conversely new files cannot be encrypted using the techniques of this disclosure.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components or modules. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a non transitory machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. A hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the relevant arts that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention in its broader aspects. Therefore the aim in the appended claims is to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. The matter set forth in the foregoing description and accompanying drawings is offered by way of illustration only and not as a limitation. The actual scope of the invention is intended to be defined in the following claims when viewed in their proper perspective based on the prior art.

