---

title: Two electrode apparatus and methods for twelve lead ECG
abstract: Described herein are methods, apparatuses, and systems for heart monitoring of a patient. The heart monitoring system can be used to take an electrocardiogram (ECG) using only two electrodes. A handheld device can be used to sequentially measure the electrical signal between different positions on a patient's body. The electrical signals can be processed and analyzed to prepare an ECG for the patient, including a 12-lead ECG.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351654&OS=09351654&RS=09351654
owner: AliveCor, Inc.
number: 09351654
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140416
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 13 108 738 filed May 16 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 12 796 188 filed Jun. 8 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 509 882 each of which is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 812 655 filed on Apr. 16 2013 which is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The presently claimed and disclosed inventive concept s relates generally to heart monitoring devices and methods and more particularly but not by way of limitation to devices systems and software for generating and providing one or more 12 lead electrocardiograms utilizing only two electrodes.

Electrocardiography has been used to study the electrical activity of the heart. Electrocardiograms ECG can be recorded or taken using electrodes placed on the skin of a patient. The electrical signals recorded between any two electrodes placed on the skin of the patient are referred to as leads. Varying numbers of electrodes and leads can be used to take the ECG. Exemplary numbers of leads used conventionally for taking ECGs are 3 5 and 12 leads. For a standard 12 lead ECG ten electrodes are used with six electrodes positioned on the chest and one electrode on each of the patient s arms and legs.

The electrocardiograph then calculates and outputs three limb lead waveforms. Limb leads I II and III are bipolar leads having one positive and one negative pole. Lead I is the voltage between the left arm LA and right arm RA e.g. I LA RA. Lead II is the voltage between the left leg LL and right arm RA e.g. II LL RA. Lead III is the voltage between the left leg LL and left arm LA e.g. III LL LA. Leads I II and III are commonly referred to as limb leads. 

Unipolar leads also have two poles however the negative pole is a composite pole made up of signals from multiple other electrodes. In a conventional cardiograph for obtaining a 12 lead ECG all leads except the limb leads are unipolar aVR aVL aVF V V V V V and V . Augmented limb leads aVR aVL and aVF view the heart from different angles or vectors and are determined from RA RL LL and LA. For example the augmented vector right aVR positions the positive electrode on the right arm while the negative electrode is a combination of the left arm electrode and the left leg electrode which augments the signal strength of the positive electrode on the right arm. Thus the augmented vector right aVR is equal to RA LA LL 2 or I II 2. The augmented vector left aVL is equal to LA RA LL 2 or I II 2. The augmented vector foot aVF is equal to LL RA LA 2 or II I 2.

The six electrodes on the chest of the patient are close enough to the heart that they do not require augmentation. A composite pole called Wilson s central terminal often symbolized as CT V or WCT is used as the negative terminal. Wilson s central terminal is produced by connecting the electrodes RA LA and LL together via a simple resistive network to give an average potential across the body which approximates the potential at an infinite distance i.e. zero . Wilson s central terminal WCT is calculated as RA LA LL 3.

While a conventional 12 lead electrocardiogram gives very useful information concerning the health and condition of an individual s heart the conventional electrocardiograph equipment is expensive and the procedure is not normally available in areas other than hospitals and medical doctors offices. Therefore monitoring is not done frequently even in wealthy countries and in poorer areas of the world an electrocardiograph may not even be available. To significantly reduce costs of obtaining an electrocardiogram a 2 electrode electrocardiograph device as described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 301 232 was marketed. The 2 electrode electrocardiograph device utilizes a smart phone connected to and at least partially surrounded by a phone protective case incorporating and supporting the two electrodes. Such devices significantly simplify and reduce the cost of obtaining an electrocardiogram although such an electrocardiogram does not include as much information as a 12 lead electrocardiogram produced by an electrocardiograph having 10 electrodes. The 12 lead electrocardiogram produced by the 10 electrode electrocardiograph offers additional and important heart related information to the cardiologist allowing the diagnosis of conditions like heart attacks myocardial infarctions that a single lead ECG cannot do. It would be advantageous if a readily available and inexpensive device could generate and produce an electrocardiogram that substantially replicates the 12 lead electrocardiogram produced by a 10 electrode electrocardiograph.

In general described herein are apparatuses methods and systems for producing an electrocardiogram that substantially replicates the electrocardiogram produced by a 10 electrode electrocardiograph but using an electrocardiograph device having only two electrodes. In one embodiment the electrocardiograph device has a first electrode assembly with a first electrode adapted to measure an electrical signal on a patient s body and a second electrode assembly with a second electrode adapted to measure an electrical signal at another location on the patient s body. The electrocardiograph device also includes control circuitry configured to measure electrocardiogram signals between the first and second electrodes and a data transmission module configured to transmit the measured electrocardiogram signals to a portable computing device by a wired or wireless transmission system and protocol such as for example those known in the art as USB WI FI BLUETOOTH NFC or as audible or ultrasonic sound signals.

The electrocardiograph device can be used in combination with a portable computing device to form an electrocardiograph. The portable computing device is provided with computer hardware including a processor in communication with a non transitory computer readable medium. The non transitory computer readable medium stores software that includes instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to record the electrocardiogram signals between the first electrode and the second electrode while the first and second electrodes are sequentially placed in predetermined paired positions on a patient s body that are known by the processor. In one embodiment the processor is caused to a calculate an average PQRST beat from the measured electrocardiogram signals as the first and second electrodes are sequentially placed in Limb Lead I II and III positions on a patient s body for a time required to measure at least one heartbeat in each Limb Lead position the Limb Lead positions known by the processor b use the relationship Lead III Lead II Lead I to time align and display Limb Leads I II and III and c calculate and display augmented Leads aVR aVL and aVF from the time aligned Limb Leads I II and III.

The software can further include instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to calculate and display average time aligned Leads V1 V2 and V3 from the measured electrocardiogram signals obtained from sequentially placing one of the first and second electrodes in a V1 V2 and V3 position while contacting the other of the first and second electrodes with a left arm of the patient for a time required to measure at least one heart beat or more if an average beat is to be calculated . The processor is further caused to calculate and display average Leads V4 V5 and V6 from the measured electrocardiogram signals obtained from sequentially placing one of the first and second electrodes in a V4 V5 and V6 position while contacting the other of the first and second electrodes with a right arm of the patient for a time required to measure at least one heartbeat. The resulting 12 lead display and report replicated the 12 lead electrocardiogram produced by a 10 electrode electrocardiograph.

Methods are provided for generating a 12 lead electrocardiogram using an electrocardiograph comprising an electrocardiograph device and a portable computing device. The electrocardiograph device has a first electrode a second electrode control circuitry and a data transmission module the control circuitry configured to measure electrocardiogram signals between the first and second electrodes. In one embodiment such a method includes directing by the portable computing device a user to place the first electrode and the second electrode at predetermined locations on a patient s body. The portable computing device receives and records location data indicative of the predetermined location on which the first electrode and the second electrode are placed. The control circuitry of the electrocardiograph device receives electrocardiogram signals from the first electrode and the second electrode and the data transmission module of the electrocardiograph device transmits the electrocardiogram signals to the portable computing device. The portable computing device generates a 12 lead electrocardiogram from the sequentially measured electrocardiogram signals between the first and second electrodes.

Before explaining at least one embodiment of the inventive concepts disclosed herein in detail it is to be understood that the inventive concepts are not limited in their application to the details of construction experiments exemplary data and or the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The presently disclosed and claimed inventive concepts are capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is for purpose of description only and should not be regarded as limiting in any way.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the inventive concepts numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the inventive concepts. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the inventive concepts within the disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the instant disclosure.

Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the inventive concepts. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Finally as used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The term lead in electrocardiography causes much confusion because it can be used to refer to two different things. In accordance with common usage the word lead may be used to refer to the electrical cable attaching the electrodes to the electrocardiograph. Alternatively and as used herein the word lead refers to the tracing of the voltage difference between at least two electrodes. Conventionally 10 electrodes are used to produce twelve of this type of lead thereby forming a 12 lead electrocardiogram as exemplified in .

A 12 lead electrocardiogram format is used herein and in the appending claims to refer to presentation of electrocardiogram signals from at least Lead I Lead II and Vthrough Vleads and optionally Lead III aVR aVL and aVF displayed over the span of at least one heartbeat using a uniform time scale.

The term patient as used herein includes humans and other warm blooded animals such as mammals for example dogs cats horses and cattle or cold blooded animals such as reptiles and refers to the person or animal whose heart related signals are being measured. The term user refers to the one applying the electrodes to the body to measure the ECG. The user can be the same as the patient or the user can be another such as for example a nurse doctor or veterinarian.

In general methods devices and systems are provided for measuring electrical signals on the body of a patient. Referring now to shown therein is an exemplary embodiment of an electrocardiograph constructed in accordance with the inventive concepts disclosed and claimed herein. The electrocardiograph includes an electrocardiograph device and a portable computing device . The electrocardiograph device as discussed below is a two electrode device however it should be understood that the electrocardiograph device may include more than two electrodes. The electrocardiograph device includes a first electrode assembly having a first electrode a second electrode assembly having a second electrode and a housing containing control circuitry and a data transmission module . The first electrode and the second electrode are adapted to measure an electrical signal on a patient s body. The control circuitry can communicate with the first and second electrodes and via ports and respectively and is configured to measure electrocardiogram signals between the first and second electrodes and respectively. The electrocardiogram signals can be analog signals indicative of the electrical potentials on a body surface of the patient that are associated with heart muscle activity. The ports and may be designed to receive analog signals and may include two three or four contacts. In some embodiments the ports and are standard female connectors in which a three contact version is known in the art as a TRS connector where T stands for tip R stands for ring and S stands for sleeve . Similarly two and four contact versions are known in the art as TS and TRRS connectors respectively.

The data transmission module is configured to receive the measured electrocardiogram signals and transmit the measured electrocardiogram signals to the portable computing device . The data transmission module may transmit the measured electrocardiogram signals to the portable computing device using a wired or wireless transmission system and protocol such as those known in the art as USB WI FI BLUETOOTH NFC or as audible or ultrasonic sound signals.

While there can be multiple electrodes in one embodiment there are only two. The first electrode assembly can be configured in any way consistent with its function i.e. it should include the first electrode in a manner available to make contact with a patient s body on the hands chest or other parts of the body to measure an electrical signal for obtaining the patient s electrocardiogram. The first electrode assembly can include a non conductive hand held portion as well as the first electrode . By using only two electrodes and sequentially measuring electrocardiogram signals at separate and distinct instants of time as discussed below a patient can easily measure his or her own electrocardiogram signals and produce a 12 lead electrocardiogram without the need to apply 10 electrodes and adhesives to the body as would be the case using a conventional electrocardiograph.

The second electrode assembly can likewise be configured in any way consistent with its function. In one embodiment the second electrode assembly is configured to removably attach to an upper limb of the patient. For example the electrocardiograph device shown in includes a second electrode assembly configured as a spring hinged cuff. By allowing the second electrode assembly to grasp the patient rather than the patient grasping an electrode little or no electrical noise is created by the nerves and adjacent muscles holding the second electrode .

Other nonlimiting examples of suitable electrodes include suction cup electrodes disposable snap electrodes alligator clip electrode connectors with disposable electrodes and any combination thereof.

The portable computing device can be implemented as a personal computer a smart phone network capable TV set TV set top box a tablet an e book reader a laptop computer a desktop computer a network capable handheld device a video game console a server and combinations thereof for example. Preferably the portable computing device comprises an input device an output device and computer hardware which is shown in Phantom . The computer hardware may be a system or systems that are able to embody and or execute the logic of the processes described herein. Logic embodied in the form of software instructions and or firmware may be executed on any appropriate hardware. For example logic embodied in the form of software instructions or firmware may be executed on a dedicated system or systems or on a personal computer system or on a distributed processing computer system and or the like. In some embodiments logic may be implemented in a stand alone environment operating on a single computer system and or logic may be implemented in a networked environment such as a distributed system using multiple computers and or processors. The computer hardware of the portable computing device may have a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium. The term processor as used herein may include a single processor or multiple processors working independently and or together to execute the logic described herein. Exemplary non transitory computer readable medium may include random access memory read only memory flash memory and combinations thereof. The term non transitory computer readable medium as used herein may be implemented as a single physical device or multiple physical devices of a distributed system that may or may not be logically related.

The input device is capable of receiving information input from a user and transmitting such information to the computer hardware . The input device can be implemented as a keyboard a touchscreen a mouse a trackball a microphone a fingerprint reader an infrared port a slide out keyboard a flip out keyboard a cell phone a PDA a video game controller a remote control a fax machine and combinations thereof for example.

The output device outputs information in a form perceivable by a user. For example the output device can be a computer monitor a screen a touchscreen a speaker a website a TV set a smart phone a PDA a cell phone a fax machine a printer a laptop computer and combinations thereof. It is to be understood that the input device and the output device may be implemented as a single device such as for example a touchscreen of a smartphone or a tablet.

In one embodiment the housing is configured as a protective cover for the portable computing device . As shown in and the housing may be provided with a base having a perimeter . The base has an interior surface and an opposing exterior surface . The housing may also be provided with a rim extending from the interior surface and generally following the perimeter of the base . The rim and the interior surface define a space that is sized and adapted to receive the portable computing device . The ports A and B may be proximate to the exterior surface so as to be available when the portable computing device is positioned within the space . The base in some embodiments surrounds and supports the control circuitry and the data transmission module . In this embodiment the base may include a pocket for receiving a power source such as a battery for powering the control circuitry and the data transmission module and may also include a door proximate to the interior surface for providing access to the pocket such that a user can install and or replace the power source . In other embodiments the power source maybe a solar cell supported by the base proximate to the exterior surface .

The housing may be constructed as a single unit or multiple units connected together. Exemplary materials forming the housing include plastic and or a combination of plastic and elastomers.

In another embodiment that is shown in and labeled by way of example with reference numeral the electrocardiograph device combines the first and second electrodes and on opposing ends of a unit shaped like a flash light or pen. For example the electrocardiograph device that is shown in by way of example has a second electrode on a cylindrical surface of one end of the pen touching a holder s hand in use. The first electrode is located on an opposing end and is used to contact the holder s chest hand or other body part when in use. The electrocardiograph device can thus be used to measure the electrical signals between the opposing first and second electrodes and respectively.

The devices and apparatuses disclosed herein can also be configured to use one or more disposable first and second electrodes and respectively or first and second electrode assemblies and respectively. Use of disposable electrodes or disposable electrode assemblies allows the electrocardiograph device or to be used by multiple patients with reduced chance spreading disease by transfer of microbes and bodily fluids from one patient to another.

The first and second electrodes and respectively can be connected to the control circuitry in a wired or wireless manner. In one embodiment and as shown in the first and second electrodes and respectively are electrically connected to the control circuitry by the ports and and wires or cables.

The control circuitry measures the small voltage between the first and second electrodes and respectively. In one embodiment the data transmission module converts the voltage measurements to a frequency modulated electrocardiogram audio signal and transmits the signal to a receiver of the computer hardware of the portable computing device via cable a wired audio jack connection wirelessly using for example a BLUETOOTH connection or acoustically. The receiver of the portable computing device can thus be a cable connection audio jack BLUETOOTH or similar wireless receiver or a microphone. In order to provide enhanced privacy in one embodiment the data transmission module encrypts the signals prior to transmitting to the portable computing device . Numerous encryption techniques are known to those skilled in the art.

Nonlimiting examples of portable computing device having or adaptable to have such receivers include smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs tablet personal computers pocket personal computers notebook computers desktop computers and server computers. The receiver may include an antenna and or a microphone depending upon the types of signals to be transmitted from the data transmission module .

In one embodiment the electrocardiogram signals are converted to a frequency modulated audio or sound signal having a carrier frequency in a range of from about 1 kHz to about 24 kHz or greater and in this case the receiver of the computer hardware will include a microphone. In another embodiment the data transmission module converts the electrocardiogram signals to a frequency modulated sound signal having a carrier frequency in a range of from about 18 kHz to about 24 kHz or greater. Nonlimiting examples of suitable ultrasonic transmitters include but are not limited to miniature speakers piezoelectric buzzers and the like. The ultrasonic signals can be received by for example a microphone of the computer hardware of the portable computing device .

Referring now to a non transitory computer readable medium of the computer hardware stores a set of instructions wherein the set of instructions are capable of being executed by the processor of the portable computing device . When the set of instructions are executed the one or more portable computing device is caused to receive and record electrocardiogram signals between the first electrode and the second electrode while the first and second electrodes and respectively are sequentially placed in predetermined paired positions on a patient s body at separate and distinct instants of time and held in each predetermined paired position for multiple heartbeats. The computing device essentially steps the user through the positioning each lead and can for example show a picture of a body on a computer screen with the desired electrode positioning indicated by a flashing point. The set of instructions further cause the portable computing device to calculate the electrocardiogram signals into signal sets representing a heartbeat for each paired position and from the signal sets representing a heartbeat to calculate average heartbeat representations for each paired position. The set of instructions can then cause the portable computing device to align the average heartbeat representations and to store and output electrocardiogram data indicative of the average heartbeat representations in a standard 12 lead electrocardiogram format.

For example ten seconds of each lead can be recorded and an average PQRST computed for each lead from each recording. The limb lead average beats I II and III can then be time aligned. Augmented lead average beats are calculated from aligned average limb leads. The V1 V6 beats are averaged and aligned to create a 12 lead report from averaged beats.

The 12 lead electrocardiogram format output can display on the output device such as a display screen of the portable computing device or can be output through a printer. The set of instructions can cause the 12 lead electrocardiogram format output to be retained in a storage memory of the portable computing device or to be transmitted to a computer external to the portable computing device such as a web server via an internet connection on the portable computing device .

In one embodiment the set of instructions can further cause the portable computing device to digitize and demodulate the electrocardiogram signals using technology known to those skilled in the art or technology yet to be developed.

In another embodiment when the set of instructions are executed the portable computing device is caused to interact with a user e.g. via the output device to provide audio and or textual instructions to direct the placement of the first and second electrodes and respectively and or to request the user to confirm placement of the first and second electrodes and respectfully via the input device . For example the portable computing device can be made to provide textual instructions to a user for contacting the first electrode to the patient s left arm and the second electrode to the patient s right arm on a display screen after which the electrocardiograph device or the electrocardiograph device and the portable computing device measures and records the electrical signal between the left arm and right arm for a suitable time interval to correspond to Lead I in a 12 lead ECG. The instructions can further cause the portable computing device to calculate and store an average heartbeat representation for Lead I. A suitable time interval for obtaining heartbeat data for Lead I and all leads generally can be between 5 seconds and 30 seconds. Longer times are possible but not necessary.

The set of instructions can further cause the portable computing device to provide instructions to a user or request placement confirmation from a user to collect the electrocardiogram data. For example after the portable computing device has stored the data for Lead I the portable computing device may provide instructions to the user or request placement confirmation from the user regarding contacting the first electrode to the patient s left leg and the second electrode to the patient s right arm wherein the electrical signal measured between the left leg and right arm corresponds to Lead II and to calculate and store an average heartbeat representation for Lead II.

Similarly the set of instructions can further cause the portable computing device to provide instructions to a user or request placement confirmation from a user regarding contacting the first electrode to the patient s left leg and the second electrode to the patient s left arm wherein the electrical signal measured between the left leg and the left arm corresponds to Lead III in a 12 lead electrocardiogram and then to analyze the electrical signal corresponding to Lead III to calculate and store an average heartbeat representation for Lead III.

Using the average heartbeat representations Lead I and Lead II the set of instructions can cause the computing device to calculate aVR aVL and aVF. The augmented vector right aVR is equal to RA LA LL 2 or I II 2. The augmented vector left aVL is equal to LA RA LL 2 or I II 2. The augmented vector foot aVF is equal to LL RA LA 2 or II I 2.

The set of instructions can further cause the portable computing device to provide instructions to a user or request placement confirmation from the user for contacting the first electrode with each of the V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6 chest locations while contacting the second electrode to one of the patient s left arm and the patients right arm. The electrical signals measured between each of the V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6 chest locations and the left arm or the right arm correspond to Leads V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6 in a 12 lead electrocardiogram. The set of instructions can then further cause the portable computing device to analyze the electrical signals corresponding to Leads V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6 to calculate average heartbeat representations for Leads V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6.

While not being bound by any particular theory it has been discovered that use of multiple electrodes to achieve a composite pole such as Wilson s central terminal is not necessary. In one embodiment the patient s right arm can be used as a negative terminal for each of Leads V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6 captured with conventional placement of electrodes on the chest. In some individuals however V1 V2 and V3 measurements do not correlate well. In such individuals the electrodes must be placed on either side of the heart to achieve duplication of conventional V1 V2 and V3 measurements. It has been definitively demonstrated that in such individuals the left arm can be used for Leads V1 V2 and V3 while the right arm is used for Leads V4 V5 and V6 and excellent correlation to conventional measurements is achieved.

Once average heartbeat representations are calculated and stored for Leads I II III aVR aVL aVF V1 V2 V3 V4 V5 and V6 the set of instructions can cause the portable computing device to align each of the heartbeat representations based on corresponding characteristics of the heartbeat representations. The averaged and aligned signals can be stored and output in a 12 lead electrocardiogram format.

While it is customary for the voltage measurements to be made in one direction the software can be made to recognize when the first and second electrodes and are reversed and invert the average heartbeat representation. For example it is customary for Lead I to measure the left arm LA minus the right arm RA e.g. I LA RA. However if the first and second electrodes and were reversed such that RA LA was measured instead the software would recognize that the first and second electrodes and were reversed and would invert the average heartbeat representation for Lead I to obtain the traditional Lead one output.

Methods for generating a traditional 12 lead electrocardiogram using only two electrodes e.g. the first and second electrodes and are provided by operating the portable computing device and the above described electrocardiograph device or . A 12 lead electrocardiogram can be generated by sequentially measuring electrical signals between the first and second electrodes and at separate and distinct instants of time after the first and second electrodes and are positioned at predetermined locations on a patient s body. Average heartbeat representations for each of the leads can be calculated as described above and aligned to produce an electrocardiogram having a 12 lead electrocardiogram format.

There are several commonly used 12 lead electrocardiogram formats. The most common format is a 4 3 format four columns of three leads. The first column includes Limb Leads I II and III. The second column includes Leads aVR aVL and aVF. The third column includes Leads V1 V2 and V3 while the fourth column includes Leads V4 V5 and V6.

In some embodiments the portable computing device is a commercially available smart phone having a standard operating system such as the operating systems identified in the art as iOS or Android. In this embodiment the electrocardiograph for generating a 12 lead electrocardiogram using only two electrodes can be provided using the above described electrocardiograph device and software downloadable to the portable computing device wherein the software provides instructions to the portable computing device as described above. In these embodiments the control circuitry and data transmission module are configured to function and interact with the portable computing device when the portable computing device is executing an application downloadable to the portable computing device .

In one embodiment the systems and methods described above include sending the 12 lead electrocardiogram to a remote server or to a medical professional. In another embodiment the systems and methods described above include a display and displaying the 12 lead electrocardiogram a on a display screen. Similarly the systems and methods described above can include a printer and printing the 12 lead electrocardiogram. In yet another embodiment the methods and systems described above include saving the 12 lead electrocardiogram to a storage memory of the portable computing device .

In order to further illustrate the present invention the following examples are given. However it is to be understood that the examples are for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.

The above described system was tested on 121 patients in a clinical trial. Each patient was monitored using the conventional 10 electrodes i.e. placing 6 electrodes on the patient s chest and one electrode on each of the patient s arms and legs. A conventional 12 lead electrocardiogram report was then prepared for each patient using a traditional stationary electrocardiograph sold under the trademark GE MAC3500.

The electrocardiograph device having the first and second electrodes and in a pen type configuration was tested on each patient and a conventional format 8 lead report was prepared from the sequential measurements. The 2 electrode electrocardiograph calculated the V1 V6 leads using the right hand RA for the negative terminal and then the left hand LA for the negative terminal. A statistical analysis was made comparing the 2 electrode electrocardiograph results with the traditional 10 electrode electrocardiograph results.

From the above descriptions it is clear that the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concepts are well adapted to carry out the objects and to attain the advantages mentioned herein as well as those inherent in the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concept. While the presented embodiments have been described for purposes of this disclosure it will be understood that numerous changes may be made which will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are accomplished within the spirit of the presently disclosed and claimed inventive concepts.

