---

title: Peptide compositions and methods for treating lung injury, asthma, anaphylaxis, angioedema, systemic vascular permeability syndromes, and nasal congestion
abstract: Provided herein are peptide inhibitors of the interaction between End Binding Protein 3 (EB3) and Inositol 1,4,5-Trisphosphate Receptor Type 3 (IP3R3). Also provided are methods and materials for treating lung injury, including acute lung injury, which may include hyperpermeability of lung vessels, vascular leakage, the development of edema, asthma, anaphylaxis, angioedema, systemic vascular permeability syndromes, and nasal congestion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08912139&OS=08912139&RS=08912139
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08912139
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140331
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. RO1 HL045638 and RO1 HL103922 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to peptides for treating lung injury including inflammation mediated vascular leakage and the development of edema. The present invention also relates to treating asthma anaphylaxis angioedema systemic vascular permeability syndromes and nasal congestion using the peptides.

Microtubule MT cytoskeleton provides an important control point of endothelial barrier regulation however the role of this key cytoskeleton element has not been well studied. The MT stabilizing drug taxol has been shown to attenuate the lung injury in mice models suggesting that MTs may be important in mediating increased lung vascular permeability. However taxol displays a general toxicity that makes it an inconvenient drug for doctors and their patients.

Microtubule end binding proteins are highly conserved microtubule plus end tracking accessory factors that bind to growing microtubules MTs and suppress MT catastrophic events. Two such end binding proteins EB1 and EB3 play roles in regulating endothelial cytoskeletal dynamics and cell shape change the primary determinants of the permeability of endothelial barrier.

Ca2 is a highly versatile second messenger that regulates endothelial permeability and vascular homeostasis. The activation of phospholipase C PLC downstream of PAR 1 activation mediates hydrolysis of phosphotidyl inositolbisphosphate PIP2 into inositol 1 4 5 trisphosphate IP3 and diacylglycerol DAG . IP3 stimulates Ca2 release from IP3 sensitive intracellular stores i.e. the endoplasmic reticulum ER . The depletion of Ca2 from ER stores is mediated by activation of IP3R on the ER membrane and leads to transient increase in intracellular Ca2 . Ca2 entry or influx is mediated by transient receptor potential canonical TRPC channels that are permeable to various cations including Ca2 and Mg2 . TRPC1 and 4 are store operated Ca2 channels SOC in endothelial lung microvascular cells that are activated by depletion of ER.

The increase in intracellular concentration of Ca2 up regulates activity of protein kinase C PKC . PKC is a key regulator of the endothelial permeability response to multiple mediators 2. PKC phosphorylates p120 catenin and mediates its dissociation from VE cadherin thus resulting in VE cadherin internalization. PKC also acts upstream of RhoA activation by phosphorylating p115RhoGEF and GDI 1. RhoA in turn facilitates phosphorylation induced inhibition of myosin light chain phosphatase MLCP by activating Rho kinase ROCK . The inhibition of MLCP is accompanied by the Ca2 calmodulin dependent activation of MLCK that leads to phosphorylation of MLC and induces acto myosin contraction in response to pro inflammatory mediators such as thrombin and histamine.

The integrity of MT cytoskeleton is required for IP3 induced Ca2 release from ER stores. Alteration of MT dynamics by MT destabilizing or MT stabilizing agents nocodazole colchicine and taxol inhibits IP3 gated release of Ca2 suggesting that MT dynamics are required for full activation of IP3R. The MT cytoskeleton is involved in remodeling of ER thus ensuring organization and propagation of Ca2 waves in response to external stimuli. The ER attaches to and elongates together with MT growing ends though direct interaction of EB1 and EB3 with stromal interaction molecule 1 STIM1 . Depletion of EB1 in HeLa HeLa cells do not express EB3 decreases ER protrusion events however does not inhibit activation of SOC by thapsigargin suggesting that some other mechanisms are involved in activation of SOC and propogation of calcium signaling in epithelial cells. In endothelial cells the localization of IP3R in caveolae is critical for both ER Ca2 store depletion and SOC activation. This indicates that activation of IP3R and or its responsiveness to IP3 is important element of calcium signaling. It is proposed that MT cytoskeleton positively regulates IP3R activation in response to IP3 and thus transmits extracellular signals throughout the cell eliciting a physiological response.

Despite the advanced supportive care in the United States about 100 000 patients die annually from Acute Lung Injury ALI a complex inflammatory response associated with neutrophil infiltration and release of cytokine and pro inflammatory mediators during sepsis. Hyper permeability of lung vessels a characteristic feature of the disease leads to the formation of pulmonary edema. Novel therapies are needed to prevent or treat dysfunction of endothelial barrier.

Provided herein is an isolated peptide. The peptide may comprise KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 FTEIPTI SEQ ID NO 3 a fragment thereof or a variant thereof. The peptide may also consist of KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 FTEIPTI SEQ ID NO 3 a fragment thereof or a variant thereof. The variant may comprise a conservative substitution. The variant may comprise any peptide sequence containing Ser Thr x Ile Pro sequence minimal EB binding consensus motif sequence. The peptide may be myristoylated or linked to a carrier peptide. The carrier peptide may be antennapedia peptide AP . The peptide may be part of a pharmaceutical formulation which may include a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Also provided herein is a method of treating a lung injury which may comprise administering to a patient in need thereof a composition comprising the peptide. The lung injury may be edema inflammation mediated vascular leakage or asthma which may be allergic asthma. The allergic asthma may be chronic or acute.

Also provided herein is a method of treating systemic vascular permeability syndromes which may comprise administering to a patient in need thereof a composition comprising the peptide. The syndromes may be due to endotoxemia trauma or multiple transfusions. The syndromes may also be incurred as a side effect of a drug treatment which may be systemic use of IL 2 to treat cancers.

Provided herein is a method of treating angioedema which may comprise administering to a patient in need thereof a composition comprising the peptide. The angioedema may be allergen induced angioedema or non allergen induced angioedema. The allergen induced angioedema may be laryngeal angioedema which may follow a food allergy or hymenopteran sting envenomation. The non allergen induced angioedema may be complement factor 1 inhibitor deficiency or imaging contrast dye induced angioedema.

Also provided herein is a method of treating anaphylaxis which may comprise administering to a patient in need thereof a composition comprising the peptide. The anaphylaxis may be allergen induced or a non allergic anaphylactoid reaction. The non allergic anaphylactoid reaction may be due to a contrast dye.

Provided herein is a method of treating systemic vascular permeability which may comprise administering to a patient in need thereof a composition comprising the peptide. The systemic vascular permeability may be associated with endotoxemia.

Also provided herein is a method of treating nasal congestion comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a composition comprising the peptide. The nasal congestion may be associated with allergic or non allergic rhinitis. The nasal congestion may be irritant related or respiratory virus related.

The inventors have made the surprising discovery that peptides derived from the EB3 interacting domain of inositol 1 4 5 trisphosphate IP3 receptor type 3 IPR reduce the interaction between End Binding Protein 3 EB3 and IPRand mitigates increased endothelial permeability response associated with cell shape changes.

Based on the Examples presented below but without being bound by theory the role of EB3 in inflammatory induced hyperpermeability of endothelial barrier centers on its ability to establish transient interactions of growing MT ends with IPR. As a result EB3 sensitizes IPRto IP3 and positively regulates Ca release from the endoplasmic reticulum ER . This leads to SOC dependent Ca entry and amplification of Ca signaling. Increased concentration of cytosolic Ca induces PKC mediated phosphorylation of p120 catenin resulting in disassembly of VE cadherin adhesions. It also facilitates RhoA dependent acto myosin contractility resulting in the cell shape changes. See .

The methods and materials described below mitigate increased endothelial permeability response associated with cell shape changes and therefore are useful in treating lung injury including inflammation mediated vascular leakage in lungs and development of edema or edema of any other organ which may be associated with sepsis anaphylactic reaction or acute immune response. The methods and materials may also be used to attenuate chronic vascular leak during pathological processes such as chronic inflammation cancer asthma and artherogenesis.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

For the recitation of numeric ranges herein each intervening number there between with the same degree of precision is explicitly contemplated. For example for the range of 6 9 the numbers 7 and 8 are contemplated in addition to 6 and 9 and for the range 6.0 7.0 the number 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 6.7 6.8 6.9 and 7.0 are explicitly contemplated.

 Fragment as used herein may mean a portion of a reference peptide or polypeptide or nucleic acid sequence.

 Identical or identity as used herein in the context of two or more polypeptide or nucleotide sequences may mean that the sequences have a specified percentage of residues or nucleotides that are the same over a specified region. The percentage may be calculated by optimally aligning the two sequences comparing the two sequences over the specified region determining the number of positions at which the identical residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the specified region and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity. In cases where the two sequences are of different lengths or the alignment produces one or more staggered ends and the specified region of comparison includes only a single sequence the residues of single sequence are included in the denominator but not the numerator of the calculation.

A peptide or polypeptide as used herein may refer to a linked sequence of amino acids and may be natural synthetic or a modification or combination of natural and synthetic.

 Substantially identical as used herein may mean that a first and second protein or nucleotide sequence are at least 50 99 identical over a region of 6 100 or more amino acids nucleotides.

 Treating treatment or to treat each may mean to alleviate suppress repress eliminate prevent or slow the appearance of symptoms clinical signs or underlying pathology of a condition or disorder on a temporary or permanent basis. Preventing a condition or disorder involves administering a agent of the present invention to a subject prior to onset of the disease. Suppressing a condition or disorder involves administering a agent of the present invention to a subject after induction of the condition or disorder but before its clinical appearance. Repressing the condition or disorder involves administering a agent of the present invention to a subject after clinical appearance of the disease.

A variant may mean means a peptide or polypeptide that differs in amino acid sequence by the insertion deletion or conservative substitution of amino acids but retain at least one biological activity. Representative examples of biological activity include the ability to bind to End Binding protein a toll like receptor TLR and to be bound by a specific antibody. Variant may also mean a protein with an amino acid sequence that is substantially identical to a referenced protein with an amino acid sequence that retains at least one biological activity. A conservative substitution of an amino acid i.e. replacing an amino acid with a different amino acid of similar properties e.g. hydrophilicity degree and distribution of charged regions is recognized in the art as typically involving a minor change. These minor changes can be identified in part by considering the hydropathic index of amino acids as understood in the art. Kyte et al. J. Mol. Biol. 157 105 132 1982 . The hydropathic index of an amino acid is based on a consideration of its hydrophobicity and charge. It is known in the art that amino acids of similar hydropathic indexes can be substituted and still retain protein function. In one aspect amino acids having hydropathic indexes of 2 are substituted. The hydrophilicity of amino acids can also be used to reveal substitutions that would result in proteins retaining biological function. A consideration of the hydrophilicity of amino acids in the context of a peptide permits calculation of the greatest local average hydrophilicity of that peptide a useful measure that has been reported to correlate well with antigenicity and immunogenicity. U.S. Pat. No. 4 554 101 incorporated fully herein by reference. Substitution of amino acids having similar hydrophilicity values can result in peptides retaining biological activity for example immunogenicity as is understood in the art. Substitutions may be performed with amino acids having hydrophilicity values within 2 of each other. Both the hydrophobicity index and the hydrophilicity value of amino acids are influenced by the particular side chain of that amino acid. Consistent with that observation amino acid substitutions that are compatible with biological function are understood to depend on the relative similarity of the amino acids and particularly the side chains of those amino acids as revealed by the hydrophobicity hydrophilicity charge size and other properties.

Provided herein is a peptide which may comprise the amino acid sequence KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 KFARLWAEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 2 also referred to herein as IPRPeptide FTEIPTI SEQ ID NO 3 also referred to herein as End Binding Inhibitory Peptide or EBIN a peptide disclosed in Table 3 herein a fragment thereof or a variant thereof. The variant may comprise a conservative substitution. The peptide may comprise an EB binding consensus motif sequence such as the EB binding consensus sequence of IPR or a fragment thereof. The EB binding consensus sequence of IPRmay be Ser Thr x Ile Pro. The peptide may consist of KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 KFARLWAEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 2 FTEIPTI SEQ ID NO 3 a consensus sequence comprising Ser Thr x Ile Pro a peptide disclosed in Table 3 herein a fragment of the foregoing or a conservative variant of the foregoing. The variant may comprise any peptide sequence containing Ser Thr x Ile Pro sequence minimal EB binding consensus motif sequence.

The peptide may be conjugated myristoylated or linked to another peptide such as a carrier peptide. The peptide may be an antennapedia peptide.

Provided herein is a method of treating lung injury. The lung injury may be lung inflammation which may be inflammation mediated vascular leakage and or the development of edema. The lung injury may be an acute lung injury. The lung injury may also be chronic vascular leak such as observed in patients with asthma. The treatment may attenuate the chronic vascular leak. The lung injury may be hyperpermeability of vessels in the lung including systemic vascular permeability such as in endotoxemia. The lung injury may be associated with sepsis inflammation severe multiple trauma aspiration of saliva gastric contents aspiration pneumonia shock near drowning multiple transfusions inhalation of irritants or toxic fumes artherogenesis mechanical injury ventilation induced injury or radiation exposure. Also provided herein is a method of treating asthma and or improving lung function and overall health of patients with asthma. The asthma may be allergic asthma which may be chronic or acute.

Also provided herein is a method of treating anaphylaxis such as allergen induced anaphylaxis and non allergic anaphylactoid reactions such as to contrast dyes. Further provided herein is a method of treating angioedema including allergen induced angioedema such as laryngeal edema which may follow food allergy or hymenopteran sting envenomation. The angioedema may also be non allergen induced angioedema such as in complement factor 1 inhibitor deficiency or imaging contrast dye induced anaphylactoid reactions.

Provided herein is a method of treating systemic vascular permeability syndromes. The syndromes may be due to endotoxemia trauma or multiple transfusions. The syndromes may also be incurred as a side effect of a drug treatment. The drug treatment may be systemic use of IL 2 to treat cancers. Also provided is a method of treating nasal congestion. The congestion may be associated with allergic or non allergic rhinitis. The congestion may be irritant related or respiratory virus related.

The method may comprise administering to the mammal a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the peptide. The composition may be a pharmaceutical formulation. The composition comprising the peptide may be administered in combination with one or more other peptides compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions useful for treating lung injury. The one or more other peptides compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions may be any agent that treats the lung injury including but not limited to preload reducers such as nitroglycerin and diuretics such as furosemide Lasix . Such medications dilate the veins in the lungs and elsewhere in the body which decreases fluid pressure going into the heart and lungs. Other one or more compounds include afterload reducers. These drugs dilate the peripheral vessels and take a pressure load off the left ventricle. Some examples of afterload reducer medications include nitroprusside Nitropress enalapril Vasotec and captopril Capoten .

The subject may be a mammal which may be a human. Prior to diagnosis the subject may be at risk for lung injury because of exposure to one or more risk factors heart condition etc. The one or more risk factors may include for example the subject having a family history of cancer age smoking tobacco drinking alcoholic beverages and or dietary deficiency. The subject may be exposed to toxic fumes or radiation mechanical ventilation. The subject may have burn wounds inflammation severe multiple trauma aspiration of saliva gastric contents aspiration pneumonia sepsis shock near drowning multiple transfusions.

Administration of the peptides using the method described herein may be systemically orally parenterally sublingually transdermally rectally transmucosally topically via inhalation via buccal administration nasally or combinations thereof. Parenteral administration includes but is not limited to intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal subcutaneous intramuscular intrathecal and intraarticular. Administration may also be subcutaneous intravenous via intra air duct or intra tumoral. For veterinary use the peptide may be administered as a suitably acceptable formulation in accordance with normal veterinary practice. The veterinarian can readily determine the dosing regimen and route of administration that is most appropriate for a particular animal. The peptides may be administered to a human patient cat dog large animal or an avian.

The peptide may be administered as a monotherapy or simultaneously or metronomically with other treatments which may be a surgery or removal of a tumor. The term simultaneous or simultaneously as used herein means that the peptide and other treatment be administered within 48 hours preferably 24 hours more preferably 12 hours yet more preferably 6 hours and most preferably 3 hours or less of each other. The term metronomically as used herein means the administration of the peptide at times different from the other treatment and at a certain frequency relative to repeat administration.

The peptide may be administered at any point prior to another treatment including about 120 hr 118 hr 116 hr 114 hr 112 hr 110 hr 108 hr 106 hr 104 hr 102 hr 100 hr 98 hr 96 hr 94 hr 92 hr 90 hr 88 hr 86 hr 84 hr 82 hr 80 hr 78 hr 76 hr 74 hr 72 hr 70 hr 68 hr 66 hr 64 hr 62 hr 60 hr 58 hr 56 hr 54 hr 52 hr 50 hr 48 hr 46 hr 44 hr 42 hr 40 hr 38 hr 36 hr 34 hr 32 hr 30 hr 28 hr 26 hr 24 hr 22 hr 20 hr 18 hr 16 hr 14 hr 12 hr 10 hr 8 hr 6 hr 4 hr 3 hr 2 hr 1 hr 55 mins. 50 mins. 45 mins. 40 mins. 35 mins. 30 mins. 25 mins. 20 mins. 15 mins 10 mins 9 mins 8 mins 7 mins. 6 mins. 5 mins. 4 mins. 3 mins 2 mins and 1 mins. The peptide may be administered at any point prior to a second treatment of the peptide including about 120 hr 118 hr 116 hr 114 hr 112 hr 110 hr 108 hr 106 hr 104 hr 102 hr 100 hr 98 hr 96 hr 94 hr 92 hr 90 hr 88 hr 86 hr 84 hr 82 hr 80 hr 78 hr 76 hr 74 hr 72 hr 70 hr 68 hr 66 hr 64 hr 62 hr 60 hr 58 hr 56 hr 54 hr 52 hr 50 hr 48 hr 46 hr 44 hr 42 hr 40 hr 38 hr 36 hr 34 hr 32 hr 30 hr 28 hr 26 hr 24 hr 22 hr 20 hr 18 hr 16 hr 14 hr 12 hr 10 hr 8 hr 6 hr 4 hr 3 hr 2 hr 1 hr 55 mins. 50 mins. 45 mins. 40 mins. 35 mins. 30 mins. 25 mins. 20 mins. 15 mins. 10 mins. 9 mins. 8 mins. 7 mins. 6 mins. 5 mins. 4 mins. 3 mins 2 mins and 1 mins.

The peptide may be administered at any point after another treatment including about 1 min 2 mins. 3 mins. 4 mins. 5 mins. 6 mins. 7 mins. 8 mins. 9 mins. 10 mins. 15 mins. 20 mins. 25 mins. 30 mins. 35 mins. 40 mins. 45 mins. 50 mins. 55 mins. 1 hr 2 hr 3 hr 4 hr 6 hr 8 hr 10 hr 12 hr 14 hr 16 hr 18 hr 20 hr 22 hr 24 hr 26 hr 28 hr 30 hr 32 hr 34 hr 36 hr 38 hr 40 hr 42 hr 44 hr 46 hr 48 hr 50 hr 52 hr 54 hr 56 hr 58 hr 60 hr 62 hr 64 hr 66 hr 68 hr 70 hr 72 hr 74 hr 76 hr 78 hr 80 hr 82 hr 84 hr 86 hr 88 hr 90 hr 92 hr 94 hr 96 hr 98 hr 100 hr 102 hr 104 hr 106 hr 108 hr 110 hr 112 hr 114 hr 116 hr 118 hr and 120 hr. The peptide may be administered at any point prior after a second treatment of the peptide including about 120 hr 118 hr 116 hr 114 hr 112 hr 110 hr 108 hr 106 hr 104 hr 102 hr 100 hr 98 hr 96 hr 94 hr 92 hr 90 hr 88 hr 86 hr 84 hr 82 hr 80 hr 78 hr 76 hr 74 hr 72 hr 70 hr 68 hr 66 hr 64 hr 62 hr 60 hr 58 hr 56 hr 54 hr 52 hr 50 hr 48 hr 46 hr 44 hr 42 hr 40 hr 38 hr 36 hr 34 hr 32 hr 30 hr 28 hr 26 hr 24 hr 22 hr 20 hr 18 hr 16 hr 14 hr 12 hr 10 hr 8 hr 6 hr 4 hr 3 hr 2 hr 1 hr 55 mins. 50 mins. 45 mins. 40 mins. 35 mins. 30 mins. 25 mins. 20 mins. 15 mins. 10 mins. 9 mins. 8 mins. 7 mins. 6 mins. 5 mins. 4 mins. 3 mins 2 mins and 1 mins.

The method may comprise administering the peptide. Peptides provided herein may be in the form of tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner. For example tablets and capsules for oral administration may contain conventional excipients may be binding agents fillers lubricants disintegrants and wetting agents. Binding agents include but are not limited to syrup accacia gelatin sorbitol tragacanth mucilage of starch and polyvinylpyrrolidone. Fillers may be lactose sugar microcrystalline cellulose maizestarch calcium phosphate and sorbitol. Lubricants include but are not limited to magnesium stearate stearic acid talc polyethylene glycol and silica. Disintegrants may be potato starch and sodium starch glycollate. Wetting agents may be sodium lauryl sulfate. Tablets may be coated according to methods well known in the art.

Peptides provided herein may also be liquid formulations such as aqueous or oily suspensions solutions emulsions syrups and elixirs. The peptides may also be formulated as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain additives such as suspending agents emulsifying agents nonaqueous vehicles and preservatives. Suspending agent may be sorbitol syrup methyl cellulose glucose sugar syrup gelatin hydroxyethylcellulose carboxymethyl cellulose aluminum stearate gel and hydrogenated edible fats. Emulsifying agents may be lecithin sorbitan monooleate and acacia. Nonaqueous vehicles may be edible oils almond oil fractionated coconut oil oily esters propylene glycol and ethyl alcohol. Preservatives may be methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate and sorbic acid.

Peptides provided herein may also be formulated as suppositories which may contain suppository bases such as cocoa butter or glycerides. Peptides provided herein may also be formulated for inhalation which may be in a form such as a solution suspension or emulsion that may be administered as a dry powder or in the form of an aerosol using a propellant such as dichlorodifluoromethane or trichlorofluoromethane. Peptides provided herein may also be formulated as transdermal formulations comprising aqueous or nonaqueous vehicles such as creams ointments lotions pastes medicated plaster patch or membrane.

Peptides provided herein may also be formulated for parenteral administration such as by injection intratumor injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection may be in the form of suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulation agents including but not limited to suspending stabilizing and dispersing agents. The peptide may also be provided in a powder form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle including but not limited to sterile pyrogen free water.

Peptides provided herein may also be formulated as a depot preparation which may be administered by implantation or by intramuscular injection. The peptides may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials as an emulsion in an acceptable oil for example ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives as a sparingly soluble salt for example .

The method may comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of the peptide to a patient in need thereof. The therapeutically effective amount required for use in therapy varies with the nature of the condition being treated the length of time desired to activate TLR activity and the age condition of the patient. In general however doses employed for adult human treatment typically are in the range of 0.001 mg kg to about 200 mg kg per day. The dose may be about 0.05 mg kg to about 10 g kg per day. The desired dose may be conveniently administered in a single dose or as multiple doses administered at appropriate intervals for example as two three four or more sub doses per day. Multiple doses may be desired or required.

The dosage may be at any dosage such as about 0.05 mg kg 0.06 mg kg 0.07 mg kg 0.08 mg kg 0.09 mg kg 0.1 mg kg 0.2 mg kg 0.3 mg kg 0.4 mg kg 0.5 mg kg 0.6 mg kg 0.7 mg kg 0.8 mg kg 0.9 mg kg 1 mg kg 25 mg kg 50 mg kg 75 mg kg 100 mg kg 125 mg kg 150 mg kg 175 mg kg 200 mg kg 225 mg kg 250 mg kg 275 mg kg 300 mg kg 325 mg kg 350 mg kg 375 mg kg 400 mg kg 425 mg kg 450 mg kg 475 mg kg 500 mg kg 525 mg kg 550 mg kg 575 mg kg 600 mg kg 625 mg kg 650 mg kg 675 mg kg 700 mg kg 725 mg kg 750 mg kg 775 mg kg 800 mg kg 825 mg kg 850 mg kg 875 mg kg 900 mg kg 925 mg kg 950 mg kg 975 mg kg 1 g kg 2 g kg 3 g kg 4 g kg 5 g kg 6 g kg 7 g kg 8 g kg 9 g kg or 10 g kg.

Provided herein is a kit which may be used for treating a lung injury. The kit may comprise one or more of the peptides. The peptides may be part of a pharmaceutical composition. The kit may further comprise instructions for using the kit and conducting the administering the peptide or formulation.

The kit may also comprise one or more containers such as vials or bottles with each container containing a separate reagent. The kit may further comprise written instructions which may describe how to perform or interpret the method described herein.

Previous work suggested the role of the MT cytoskeleton in regulating IP3 gated release of Ca from ER stores. The ability of EB3 to regulate release of Ca from IP3 sensitive stores downstream of PAR 1 signaling was tested. It was determined that the changes in intracellular Ca concentration in HMECs expressing shRNA to EB1 EB3 and Luciferase in response to PAR 1 activation . Because our vector based siRNA constructs were cloned into a GFP C1 vector we were able to compare the changes in non transfected and transfected cell from the same coverslip. Depletion of EB1 did not have any effect on the release of Ca from stores as compared to control non transfected cells or cells expressing shRNA to Luciferase. In contrast depletion of EB3 led to marked inhibition of Ca release thus resulting in decreased Ca influx. The effect of simultaneous depletion of EB1 and EB3 was comparable with depletion of EB3 alone B . These data suggest that EB3 is requires for ER Ca depletion.

It was determined whether EB3 interacts with IPR type 3 activity of which is critical for the thrombin induced release of Ca in ECs. Mice were challenged with sub lethal dose of LPS and determined the association of EB3 with IPRand TRPC1 SOC channel. As shown on EB3 interacts with IPRin resting endothelial microvasculature and the level of this interaction increases during LPS induced lung inflammation. Interestingly TRPC1 was also found in the EB3 precipitated in the lungs undergoing inflammation 3 hrs of LPS challenge . These changes were not observed in TLR4 LPS receptor KO mice indicating for causal relationship of these interactions and inflammation.

Interestingly IPRcontains EB binding consensus motif Ser Thr x Ile Pro SxIP . A short peptide based on IPRsequence KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 shows high binding activity for EB3 with free energy binding of 68.882 kcal mol . The pre treatment of cell with IPRsequence attached to the C terminus of cell permeant antennapedia peptide AP at 10 nM markedly decreased the release of Ca2 from stores in response to thrombin suggesting that interaction between IPRand EB3 is critical in the mechanism of IPR activation. The effects of IPR peptide and taxol were compared in regulating Ca release. It was found that pre treatment of cells with 5 g ml taxol for 20 min prior to thrombin stimulation inhibits release of Ca from ER to the same extent as IPRpeptide B .

To address the role of EB3 IP3R interaction in regulating vascular endothelial permeability we used ex vivo lung preparations. The peptide was infused into lungs for 30 minutes prior to infusion of PAR 1 agonist peptide and the interaction between EB3 and IPRwas determined by IP assay . Activation of PAR 1 receptor significantly increased the EB3 IPRinteraction as compared to basal level whereas profusion of IPRpeptide inhibited this interaction in activated lung microvasculature. Consequently IPRpeptide mitigated the increase in lung vessel permeability as measured by changes in microvascular filtration coefficient Kf c. demonstrates that IPRpeptide markedly attenuates the increase in microvascular permeability in response to PAR 1 activation. These data suggest that interaction between EB3 and IP3R might be important for inflammation induced vascular leakage and development of edema in lungs.

Recent studies demonstrated that vascular leakage is a critical factor contributing to lethality in sepsis. The pharmacological effect of IPRpeptide was tested in LPS induced murine model of sepsis. Male CD1 mice were challenged by intraperitoneal injection i.p. of LPS 30 mg kg body weight and infiltration of neutrophils in lung a measure of lung inflammation was determined. Lungs were perfused with PBS weighed frozen and used for measuring lung myeloperoxidase MPO activity signature of activated neutrophils. As shown in treatment of mice with IPRpeptide 30 minutes prior to LPS challenge significantly reduced infiltration of neutrophils in lung at 2 and 6 hrs of LPS challenge as compared to control peptide treated group. This observation suggests that IPRpeptide attenuated LPS induced lung inflammation and injury. Consequently mice received a treatment of IPRpeptide 30 minutes prior to and 1 hr after LPS administration demonstrated marked improvement in survival rate of control groups in both LD50 and LD80 challenge . Furthermore it was determined whether IPRpeptide protects from polymicrobial sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture CLP . CLP causes lethal peritonitis that is accompanied by acute lung injury ALI . It is well excepted and clinically relevant method in experimental rodents. shows that IPRpeptide improved survival of animal after CLP. Whereas 90 control mice died within the first 48 hrs animals injected with IPRbefore surgery and 24 and 48 hrs after surgery demonstrated significantly higher survival rate.

These data suggest that IPRpeptide derivative peptide can be potentially used for preventing pulmonary hyper permeability and for attenuating chronic vascular leak during pathological processes such as inflammation and artherogenesis. The dose response of IPRpeptide was further tested in LPS induced murine model of sepsis. Male CD1 mice were challenged by i.p. injection of LPS at LD80 dose. Mice received a retro orbital i.v. injection of IPRpeptide at doses 0.01 0.033 0.1 0.33 1.0 3.3 and 10 M per kg of the body weight. Mice were injected with IPRpeptide three times 30 minutes prior to and 1 and 24 hrs after LPS administration. A percent of survived animals in each group was plotted as a function of IPRdose. shows that IPRpeptide improved survival rate of control groups starting at 0.033 M kg and reached a maximal efficacy at 1 M kg. Increase in IPRdose did not lead to further improvement but importantly neither it caused animal death. These data suggest that IPRpeptide has low toxicity within this range of doses. The ED effective dose 50 as 80 nM kg was calculated using a three parameter logistic equation min max min 1 10 Where min and max are minimum and maximum of response. The presented data suggest that IPRis a potential drug with a high potency and low toxicity. In contrast to taxol this drug is not expected to display a general toxicity.

EB3 positively regulates release of Ca from ER stores and thereby increases endothelial barrier permeability in response to pro inflammatory stimuli. The interaction between EB3 and IPR is important in the mechanism of IP3 gated release of Ca IPRpeptide prevents inflammation mediated vascular leakage in lungs and development of edema and markedly improves the survival of mice in two different models of sepsis.

We postulate that dynamic interaction of EB3 at the MT ends with ER is required for propagation of Ca waves and increased endothelial barrier permeability in response to pro inflammatory mediators.

Hypothesis EB3 regulation of IP3 gated release of Ca from ER is required for the MT dependent increase in endothelial permeability. We will address the idea that accumulation of EB3 at the growing MT ends facilitates transient interaction of EB3 with IP3R and positively regulates release of Ca from stores thus resulting in SOC dependent Ca entry activation of Ca dependent PKC isoform PKC mediated phosphorylation of p120 catenin and VE cadherin internalization as postulated by model in .

MT destabilizing and stabilizing agents inhibit IP3 induced Ca2 release 11 13. Our Preliminary Data demonstrate that depletion of EB3 but not EB1 in endothelial cells also inhibits PAR 1 mediated release of Ca2 from stores. We will determine whether EB3 regulates IP3 induced Ca2 release from ER indirectly through regulation of MT dynamics. We will determine whether restoration of MT persistent growth in EB3 depleted cells by expressing the artificial EB3 dimer as shown by us 20 can also restore PAR 1 mediated release of Ca2 from ER. Since artificial dimer EB3 NL LZ is completely devoid of any domain responsible for the binding to known EB partners it is not expected to restore IP3 induced Ca2 release if interaction between EB3 and IP3R is critical for activation of IP3R. Therefore if we will observe a restoration of IP3R activity in cells expressing the artificial EB3 dimers we will conclude that EB3 regulates agonist induced Ca2 release from ER indirectly via MT dynamics. This experiment will address thrombin mediated release of Ca2 from ER and influx of extracellular Ca2 as assessed by 340 380 ratiometric imaging of Fura2 AM in HMLVECs. Based on the validity of our hypothesis we predict that expression of EB3 NL LZ will not restore the agonist induced release of Ca2 from ER.

On the premises of our Data we proposed that interaction between EB3 and IP3R type 3 might be important in the mechanism of receptor activation. IP3R contains the Ser Thr x Ile Pro SxIP consensus motif which is a specific signature of EB interacting partners. The phosphorylation of Ser or Thr in the vicinity of this motif markedly decreases the affinity of EB1 for its known partners. We will determine whether the short IP3R sequence peptide 798 811 KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 fused with AP sequence disrupts the interaction between IP3R and EB3 and whether it inhibits thrombin induced IP3 gated release of Ca2 . Because there is some possibility that the peptide can be phosphorylated in cells we will express Avi tagged IP3R peptide and will determine its phosphorylation by autoradiography. If we find that peptide undergoes phosphorylation we will use phosphorylation defective peptide in which first Thr will be substituted for Ala phosphorylation defective peptide KFARLWAEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 2 as more potent for all other studies. The binding of the peptide to EB3 will be confirmed in cells and in vitro by co IP and pull down assay. We will use this peptide to disrupt the interaction between EB3 and IP3R in cells. It is our expectation that IP3R peptide will inhibit Ca2 release from stores in response to thrombin.

We will investigate whether EB3 depletion or inhibition of interaction between EB3 and IP3R with blocking peptide changes the intracellular distribution of IP3R. IP3R type 2 and 3 are predominantly expressed in lung endothelial microvasculature. Recruitment of IP3R type 3 into caveolae is required for agonist induced Ca2 release from stores. Considering the relatively low intrinsic affinity of IP3 to IP3R type 3 localization of the receptor in the close proximity to the sites of IP3 generation might be critical for IP3 gated release of Ca2 . Therefore we will test whether EB3 regulates the tethering of ER membrane to caveolae through formation of IP3R3 TRPC1 TRPC4 complex. We will determine the intracellular distribution of the IP3R3 receptor by immunofluorescent staining and by live cell imaging in the time course of thrombin stimulation. If we will find that EB3 regulates IP3 gated release of Ca2 by tethering of IP3R3 to caveolae we will determine whether EB3 facilitates the interaction between IP3R3 and TRPC1 TRPC4.

IP3R contains 16 potential sites for CaM kinase II CaMKII 26 28 and CaMKII mediated phosphorylation increases receptor sensitivity to IP3. Thr804 a predicted CaMKII phosphorylation site is located within 651 1130 region which is critical for the functional coupling between IP3 binding and channel opening. Therefore phosphorylation of Thr804 might be important in the mechanism of IP3 induced channel opening. EB3 binds to CaM and it might orchestrate the spatial and temporal activation of CaMKII and phosphorylation of the receptor. To address this idea we will determine whether depletion of EB3 or disruption of interaction between EB3 and IP3R with a specific peptide inhibits IP3R phosphorylation. The level of IP3R phosphorylation will be assessed by autoradiography. We expect that both EB3 depletion and IP3R peptide will reduce the level of IP3R phosphorylation. The sites of phosphorylation will be determined by phosphoproteomic analysis. The endogenous IP3R will be purified from HLMVECs prior and after thrombin treatment using conconavalin A beads. The specificity of CaMKII sites will be determined by comparison of the profiles of phosphorylation obtained with and without CaMKII inhibitors. We will mutate CaMKII sites and will determine their significance in intracellular distribution of IP3R3 and in the mechanism of IP3 gated release of Ca2 .

Another series of experiment will determine whether CaMKII dependent phosphorylation of IP3R is coupled to binding of the receptor to TRPC1 4 at the plasma membrane. Phosphorylation might release IP3R from growing MT tips and induce its binding to TRPC1 4. The co localization of CaMKII and IP3R3 is observed in apical region of intestinal enterocytes pancreatic acinar cells and surface mucous cells. Therefore the co distribution of CaMKII and IP3R3 at the luminal surface of endothelial cells might occur. We will first confirm the co localization of IP3R3 with CaMKII in resting and thrombin stimulated HLMVECs. We also will determine the interaction between receptor and kinase by FRET analysis. The activity of CaMKII will be assessed using FRET based biosensor Camui 33 obtained from Yasunori Hayashi Japan . The role of EB3 in spatial activation of CaMKII will be determined using the same approaches.

The depletion of ER stores is important mechanism of SOC activation and Ca2 entry 34 36. Consistently we found that depletion of EB3 but not EB1 reduces Ca2 influx. On the premise of our Preliminary Data we hypothesized that EB3 depletion inhibits thrombin induced activation of TRPC1 and TRPC4 major SOC channels in endothelial cells. To address this possibility directly HLMVECs treated with EB3 siRNA or with IP3R3 peptide will be used in the whole cell patch clamp assay to measure thrombin induced and a La3 sensitive inward current at 50 mV. We will also evaluate the current voltage I V relationship 100 to 100 mV to demonstrate reversal potential of activated channels. This result will be compared with data obtained in HLMVECs in which IP3R3 will be depleted with siRNA or inhibited with IP3R antagonist 2 aminoethoxydiphenyl borate 2 APB . Complementary experiments will address whether separate or simultaneous inactivation of TRPC1 and TRPC4 with specific Ab or with siRNA will produce the similar effect on whole cell conductance as compared to depletion of EB3. On the validity of our hypothesis we predict that EB3 depletion will inhibit Ca2 entry through TRPC1 4 channels. These experiments will be accompanied by measurements of changes in intracellular Ca2 concentration by Fura2 AM ratiometric imaging.

Another set of experiments will determine whether depletion of EB3 can inhibit thapsigargin TG or IP3 induced intracellular delivery my microinjection activation of SOC and Ca2 entry. TG inhibits sarco endoplasmic reticulum Ca2 ATPase and results in depletion of Ca2 from ER independently on IP3R activation. Both approaches are expected to induce activation of SOC evoked Ca2 entry in control siRNA treated cells however depletion of EB3 might inhibit Ca2 entry only in case of IP3 induced activation of IP3R. This experiments will distinguish between involvement of EB3 in regulating SOC evoked Ca2 entry indirectly through activation of IP3R and directly if EB3 or MT dynamics change has any affect on activation of SOC channel per se. We will evaluate the whole cell conductance and the current voltage I V relationship to demonstrate the activity of TRPC1 4 channels in these experiments.

We will determine whether interaction between EB3 and IP3R resulting in propagation of Ca2 signaling potentiates increased permeability response to PAR 1 activation. In this context we will address the permeability barrier increase in cells and in lungs treated with IP3R blocking peptides. We will assess the endothelial permeability increase by measuring changes in TER and transendothelial albumin fluxes as functional measures of alterations of endothelial barrier. The integrity of AJs and formation of intracellular gaps will be determined by immunostaining by quantitative analysis of VE cadherin internalization using a biotinylation assay by interaction between VE cadherin and p120 catenin. On validity of our hypothesis we expect that inhibition of increase in intracellular Ca2 concentration will result in reduce permeability response reflected by less intracellular gap formation and more stable VE cadherin adhesions. Since increased intracellular Ca2 activates PKC that mediate disassembly of AJs by phosphorylating p120 catenin we will determine the level of PKC activation and the level of p120 catenin phosphorylation on PKC specific site Ser879. To determine whether PAR 1 mediated cell contractility is also inhibited in EB3 depleted cells or in cells pre treated with IP3R3 peptide we will analyze the level of RhoA and MLCK L activation. The IP3R3 depleted cells or lung microvascular endothelial cells isolated from IP3R3 mice 37 will be used for comparison.

To determine whether interaction between EB3 and IP3R potentiates agonist induces increase in microvascular permeability and lung edema we will use lung ex vivo model. The mouse perfused lung preparation will be used to determine whether cell permeant IP3R peptide inhibits PAR 1 mediated increase in lung vascular permeability. The endothelial microvascular permeability will be assessed by measuring capillary filtration coefficient Kf c and pulmonary transvascular 125I albumin flux after infusion of PAR1 agonist peptide. We will also use IP3R3 mice obtained from Katsuhiko Mikoshiba Japan or mice in which IP3R3 will be depleted by siRNA to verify the results obtained with a peptide. If our hypothesis that the interaction between IP3R and EB3 is essential for regulating agonist induced increase in lung microvascular permeability we expect that both IP3R peptide and IP3R3 will produce comparable results revealing a partial inhibition of increased microvascular permeability in response to PAR 1 activation.

The goal of these studies is to determine the role of EB3 in regulating IP3 gated release of Ca2 from ER stores. We will determine significance of interaction between EB3 and IP3R in the mechanism of IP3R phosphorylation and ER translocation to the apical plasmalemma. We anticipate based on our hypothesis that interaction between EB3 and IP3R provides a control point of IP3R activation. On validity of our hypothesis we predict that disruption of EB3 interaction with IP3R will inhibit release of Ca2 from ER stores and will abrogate the increased permeability response in cells culture and in lungs. We will interrogate the following mechanistic models that EB3 IP3R interaction regulates IP3 gated release of Ca2 1 by tethering of IP3R3 to the caveolae to the close proximity of IP3 generation and 2 by facilitating IP3R3 phosphorylation by CaMKII. Thus the cell culture experiments together with lung microvessel studies will identify the mechanism by which EB3 regulates IP3R3 activity. We do not foresee problems in regards to being able to draw novel conclusions from these studies on the basis of testing the hypotheses. All proposed techniques are established in our laboratory or in laboratory of co Investigators and therefore feasible.

MT cytoskeleton plays important role in maintenance of endothelial barrier in resting cells and provides the mechanism for potentiating increased endothelial permeability as mediated by pro inflammatory stimuli. EB3 a MT end binding protein which regulates MT dynamics by promoting persistent MT growth and therefore EB3 anti catastrophe activity might be a primary mechanism controlling re organization of MT cyto skeleton and the loss of endothelial barrier function during inflammatory diseases such as acute lung injury ALI and Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome ARDS . The proposed studies will address the roles of EB3 in regulating IP3 gated release of Ca2 from ER stores in response to PAR 1 activation in the mechanism increased endothelial vascular permeability and edema formation. We will define the potentially important interaction between EB3 and IP3R3 in the mechanism of organization and propagation of Ca2 waves that mediates increased endothelial permeability though PKC mediated AJ disassembly and RhoA MLCK L driven acto myosin contractility.

Computational in silico modeling was used to estimate the energetic contribution to the binding free energy provided by each residue in the KFARLWTEIPTAIT peptide SEQ ID NO 1 . A truncated variants of the amino acid sequence KFARLWTEIPTAIT SEQ ID NO 1 was docked into EB3 interface and the free energy of the interaction was computed Table 1 . The data demonstrate that Thr x Ile Pro has the lowest binding energy and flanking amino acids play a critical role in stabilizing the interaction between EB3 and peptide.

End Binding Inhibitory peptide namely EBIN was designed based on computational in silico alanine scanning and fully flexible docking of IPR peptide to the EB binding pocket Tables 2 and 3 . Binding free energy AG was used to determine a contribution of each residue in stabilization of interaction of the peptide with EB protein.

Alanine scanning reveals stabilizing with a positive binding energy of 0.50 Kj mole or more shown in black and destabilizing with a negative binding energy of 1 shown in blue residues.

As a result the 14 amino acid IPR peptide was reduced to the 7 amino acid End Binding Inhibitory peptide EBIN FTEIPTI SEQ ID NO 3 . demonstrates the interaction between EB3 and EBIN. Similarly to IPR is shown in yellow stick in EBIN binds to hydrophobic grove between EB acidic tail and coil coiled domain. The calculated energy binding of EBIN to EB3 is 60.251 kcal mol which is similar to the energy binding between IPR and EB3. Threonine at position 2 of EBIN plays a critical role in binding to the EB3 interface because mutation of this residue to alanine completely abolishes the binding. Therefore a single amino acid mutation T A peptide FAEIPTI SEQ ID NO 4 was used as a loss of binding control.

To determine the inhibitory properties of EBIN in cells Human Pulmonary Aorta Endothelial Cell HPAECs monolayers pretreated with EBIN or with a control peptide at the concentration of 1 M were challenged with thrombin. The interaction between EB3 and IPRreceptor was analyzed using a Western Blot analysis. As demonstrated in EBIN treatment attenuated basal and thrombin induced interaction between EB3 and IP3R3. Consistently with the idea of the role of EB3 in modulating the IPR s responsiveness to IP3 EBIN significantly inhibited the intracellular calcium flux in response to thrombin and histamine. demonstrates changes in 340 380 bound free Fura 2M ratio in HPAECs pre treated with 1 M Myr EBIN or control peptide FAEIPTI SEQ ID NO 4 and challenge with 50 nM thrombin or 90 M histamine. EBIN but not a control peptide mitigated agonist induced increase in intracellular calcium. Ca2 F i transient after stimulation of HPAEC monolayers with pro inflammatory cytokines.

To determine EBIN effect on cell shape change and paracellular permeability trans endothelial resistance of HPAEC monolayers were measured. demonstrates that EBIN but not with a loss of binding peptide inhibited cell shape change and paracellular hyperpermeability of HPAEC monolayers in response to both pro inflammatory mediators. These results demonstrate that the barrier protective effect of EBIN is associated with inhibition of calcium signaling and cell shape change of endothelium.

The activity of nitric oxide synthase 3 eNOS an endothelial specific enzyme that produces NO is regulated by calcium signaling particularly through eNOS interaction with calmodulin and is a known cause of hyperpermeability of endothelial barrier during inflammation. Because EBIN inhibits calcium signaling it was postulated that the barrier protective effect of EBIN in part is due to inhibition of eNOS. Therefore the effect of EBIN on basal and agonist induced production of NO was measured. NO formation was measured using porphyrinic NO electrodes coupled to a FAS1 femtostat and a personal computer with electrochemical software Gamry Instruments . The electrode current which is proportional to NO concentration was measured as a function of time. Interestingly EBIN showed no effect on basal NO production suggesting that it does not inhibit constitutive eNOS activity. EBIN however significantly attenuated agonist induced NO production . Consistently with these results i.v. injection of AP EBIN in mice showed no effect on the systolic blood pressure however EBIN significantly inhibited histamine induced vasodilation . These data are in agreement with data obtained in cell culture experiments. These results demonstrate that EBIN attenuates vasodilation by inhibiting NO generation in response to histamine.

The effect of EBIN on mortality rate from LPS induced sepsis was determined. Mice received i.v. retro orbital injection of AP EBIN or AP control peptide 30 minutes prior to and 1 hr after LPS administration at LD90 dose. Mice treated with EBIN demonstrated marked improvement in survival rate of control groups . Furthermore it was determined whether post treatment of EBIN also shows any protective effect. In this experiment Myr EBIN was injected in tail vein 30 min and 24 hrs after LPS challenged. As shown in post treatment with EBIN lead to insignificant improvement in survival rate as compared to control group loss of binding peptide . Consistently with previous results with Ap EBIN pre treatment with Myr EBIN demonstrated significant increase p

Airway microvascular hyperpermeability the result of elevated plasma VEGF is one of the critical factors contributing to abnormal airway function in patients with classic asthma and its cough variant. Because acute allergic asthmatic response is mainly due to IgE mediated hypersensitivity we also determined whether EBIN protects from subcutaneous vascular leak following an IgE mediated anaphylactic reaction. shows that intravenous injection of EBIN but not the control loss of binding peptide significantly attenuates subcutaneous vascular leak size and intensity of Evan Blue positive area in the ear high vascularization A and back low vascularization B . These date indicate that EBIN might be effectively used to improve the lung function and overall health of patients with chronic or acute forms of allergic asthma and curtail the asthmatic inflammatory response.

