---

title: Semiconducting polymers
abstract: Novel semiconducting photovoltaic polymers with conjugated units that provide improved solar conversion efficiency that can be used in electro-optical and electric devices. The polymers exhibit increased solar conversion efficiency in solar devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09029499&OS=09029499&RS=09029499
owner: University of Chicago
number: 09029499
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140218
---
This application continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 888 738 filed May 7 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 653 228 issued Feb. 18 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 054 719 filed Jan. 18 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 436 134 issued May 7 2013 which is a 371 national phase of International Application No. PCT US2009 044364 filed May 18 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 082 071 and 61 082 418 filed Jul. 18 2008 and Jul. 21 2008 respectively both entitled Semiconducting Polymers the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DMR 0703274 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government may have certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates to semiconducting polymers based on semiconducting conjugated polymers. This invention also relates to their use in electro optical and electronic devices.

Solar energy harvest using photovoltaic effect requires active semiconducting materials to convert light into electricity. Currently solar cells based on silicon are the dominating technology due to their high conversion efficiency. Recently solar cells based on organic materials showed interesting features especially on the potential of low cost in materials and processing. Judging from the recent success in organic light emitting diodes based on a reverse effect of photovoltaic effect organic solar cells are very promising. Bulk hetero junction BHJ made from phase separated blends of semiconducting polymers and fullerides is a popular structure that has been adopted for polymer solar cells. Current solar cells exhibit low power conversion efficiency about 4 5 compared to silicon based solar cells even after sophisticated device optimizations.

Conjugated polymers have shown some promise in providing a photovoltaic effect. Conjugated polymers are made of alternating single and double carbon carbon C C or carbon nitrogen C N bonds. The conjugated polymers have a bond backbone of intersecting sphybrid orbitals. The porbitals on the carbon atoms overlap with neighboring porbitals to provide bonds. The electrons that comprise the bonds are delocalized over the whole molecule. These polymers exhibit electronic properties similar to those seen in inorganic semiconductors. The semiconducting properties of the photovoltaic polymers are derived from their delocalized bonds.

There is a need in the art for polymer solar cells that exhibit increased solar conversion efficiency.

Described herein are semiconducting photovoltaic polymers that exhibit high solar conversion efficiencies when used in electro optical and electronic devices. There are also semiconducting polymers that are used as hole transporting material with fullerene derivatives as acceptors in electro optical and electronic devices. The polymers are designed to achieve a low bandgap for broad absorption in the solar spectrum.

The semiconducting polymer can also be formula I where Xand Xare CH Yand Yare S Z is COOR W is H Rand Rare CH and R has the formula

The semiconducting polymer can also be formula I where Xand Xare O Yand YS Z is COOR W is F or H Rand Rhave the following formula 

Also provided herein is a photovoltaic film comprising a fullerene derivative and a semiconducting polymer of the formula I 

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. When describing the compounds compositions methods and processes of this invention the following terms have the following meanings unless otherwise indicated.

 Alkyl by itself or as part of another substituent refers to a hydrocarbon group which may be linear cyclic or branched or a combination thereof having the number of carbon atoms designated i.e. Cmeans one to eight carbon atoms . Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl t butyl isobutyl sec butyl cyclohexyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl methyl cyclopropylmethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane etc. Alkyl groups can be substituted or unsubstituted unless otherwise indicated. Examples of substituted alkyl include haloalkyl polyhaloalkly such as polyfluoroalkyl and polychloroalkyl aminoalkyl and the like.

 Aryl refers to a polyunsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon group having a single ring monocyclic or multiple rings bicyclic which can be fused together or linked covalently. Aryl groups with 6 10 carbon atoms are preferred where this number of carbon atoms can be designated by C for example. Examples of aryl groups include phenyl and naphthalene 1 yl naphthalene 2 yl biphenyl and the like. Aryl groups can be substituted or unsubstituted unless otherwise indicated. Aryloxy refers to O aryl and heteroaryloxy refers to the group O heteroaryl.

The term amino refers to NRR where Rand R are independently selected from hydrogen alkyl aryl aralkyl and alicyclic all except H are optionally substituted and R and R can form a cyclic ring system.

 Ester refers to R C O where R is a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein. Arylheterocyclic ring refers to a bi or tricyclic ring comprised of an aryl ring as defined herein appended via two adjacent carbon atoms of the aryl ring to a heterocyclic ring as defined herein. Exemplary arylheterocyclic rings include dihydroindole 1 2 3 4 tetra hydroquinoline and the like.

 Halo or halogen by itself or as part of a substituent refers to a chlorine bromine iodine or fluorine atom.

 Haloalkyl as a substituted alkyl group refers to a monohaloalkyl or polyhaloalkyl group most typically substituted with from 1 3 halogen atoms. Examples include 1 chloroethyl 3 bromopropyl trifluoromethyl and the like.

The term heteroaryl as used herein refers to a mono bi or tri cyclic aromatic radical or ring having from five to ten ring atoms of which at least one ring atom is selected from S O and N zero one or two ring atoms are additional heteroatoms independently selected from S O and N and the remaining ring atoms are carbon wherein any N or S contained within the ring may be optionally oxidized. Heteroaryl includes but is not limited to pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isooxazolyl thiadiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiophenyl furanyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl benzooxazolyl quinoxalinyl and the like. The heteroaromatic ring may be bonded to the chemical structure through a carbon or heteroatom.

The photovoltaic property of the polymers described herein was studied in polymer solar cells. Simple solar cells were used with semiconducting polymers of the formulas described herein. The power conversion efficiency PCE was greater than 3 in some embodiments. In embodiments that may be preferred the semiconducting polymers yielded a PCE greater than 5 . The PCE reached 5.6 to 6.1 in some preferred embodiments.

The high conversion efficiency exhibit by the polymers described herein may be the result of an effective light harvest. The cells using the polymers absorb light in almost the entire visible spectrum. The polymer morphology also favors charge separation and charge transport. This can lead to high fill factors.

The polymers described herein are based on the concept that a thienothiophene moiety can support a quinoidal structure and lead to a narrow polymer bandgap that may have an effect on harvesting solar energy. Because the thienothiophene moiety is electron rich an electron withdrawing ester group can be introduced to stabilize the resulting polymers.

Another embodiment may also comprise semiconducting polymers having the formula I where W represents F or H. Xand Xmay independently represent CHor O and Yand Ymay independently represent S in some embodiments that may be preferred.

In some embodiments Z may represent an ester or polyfluoroalkyl. Preferably Z may represent COOR where R is alkyl alkoxy aryl aryloxy heteroaryl heteroaryloxy. More preferably R may represent CHwhere m is an integer from 1 to 30. R may be branched or preferably have the following formulae II and III 

In embodiments that may be preferred the semiconducting polymers have the formula I where Xand Xcan independently represent O Yand Ycan independently represents S Z is COOR W represents H Rand Rindependently represent CH and R is the formula III 

The semiconducting polymers may preferably have the formula I where Xand Xindependently represent CH Yand Yindependently represent S Z represents COOR W represents H Rand Rindependently represent CH and R represents CH. The semiconducting polymers may have the formula I where Xand Xindependently represent CH Yand Yindependently represent S Z represents COOR W represents H Rand Rindependently represent CH and R has the formula III 

The semiconducting polymers of the present invention also can have the formula I where Xand Xindependently represent O Yand Yindependently represent S Z represents COOR W represents H Rand Rcan independently represent CH and R represents CH. Also there are embodiments where Xand Xindependently represent O Yand Yindependently represent S Z represents COOR W represents H Rand Rcan independently represent CH and R is the formula II 

In some embodiments that may be preferred R represents CFwhere n is an integer from 1 to 12 or COOCHwhere n is an integer from 1 to 30. R can represent CF Rcan represent CHwhere n is an integer from 1 to 12. In a preferred embodiment Rrepresents CH R represent CF and X is 8.

Gel permeation chromatography studies showed a number averaged molecular weight of 18.3 k and weight averaged molecular weight of 22.9 k with a polydispersity of 1.25.

The present invention also comprises the conjugates of the semiconducting polymers I and IV described herein. The conjugates can be joined with electron accepting materials including but not limited to Buckminsterfullerene fullerene derivatives. Any electron accepting fullerene can be used with the semiconducting polymers described herein. Such fullerenes can be from Cto C. In preferred embodiments the fullerene can be C C C or C. The fullerene can be 6 6 phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester PC61BM having the following formula 

One aspect of the present invention includes the use of the semiconducting polymers and the conjugates described herein in devices such as a solar cell an optical device an electroluminescent device a photovoltaic cell semiconducting cell or photodiode. Another aspect of the present invention includes the use of the conjugates of the semiconducting polymers described herein in a solar cell an optical device an electroluminescent device a photovoltaic cell semiconducting cell photodiode or polymeric field effect transistors.

A method of incorporating the semiconducting polymers described herein onto a substrate comprises dissolving one or more of the polymers described herein with a fullerene derivative in a solvent and applying the resulting composite onto a substrate.

The one or more of the polymers can be co dissolved with a fullerene derivative in 1 2 dichlorobenzene chlorobenzene chloroform or toluene for example in a 1 1 weight ratio respectively. 1 8 diiodooctance can also be used in combination with above mentioned solvents. Polymers involving LY 12 LY 14 or LY 18 described below can be in concentrations in a range of about 8 to about 12 mg ml or any combination or subcombination therein. They can also be about 10 mg ml. Polymers involving LY 15 LY 16 or LY 17 described below can be in concentrations in a range of about 10 to about 15 mg ml or any combination or subcombination therein. They can also be about 13 mg ml. LY 15 LY 16 and LY 17 can be dissolved in a combination of 3 by volume of 1 8 diiodooctance and 1 2 dichlorobenzene. From about 2 to about 4 by volume of 1 8 diiodooctance can be mixed with 1 2 dichlorobenzene.

The polymer fullerene composite can then be applied onto a substrate. Suitable substrates such as Indium Tin Oxide ITO coated glass that are known in the art can be used. The composite can be applied onto the substrate using any variety of processes suitable for layer application or casting. Spin casting can be used to apply a thin layer or film of the composite blend onto a substrate. The layer of composite blend can be from about 80 nm to about 150 nm thick. Layer thickness will vary depending on the application of the composite blend and the substrate. Therefore provided herein is a photovoltaic film comprising a semiconducting polymer as described herein with a fullerene derivative.

Semiconducting polymers described herein can have alternating thieno 3 4 b thiophene and benzodithiophene units. The physical properties of these polymers can be finely tuned for photovoltaic application. The HOMO energy levels of the polymer can be lowered by substituting alkoxy side chains to the less electron donating alkyl chains in LY 15 or introducing electron withdrawing fluorine into the polymer backbone in LY 16 leading to significant increase in Voc 28 for polymer solar cells. The side chains and substitute groups also affect polymer s absorption and hole mobility as well as the miscibility with fulleride all influencing polymer solar cell performances. Films prepared from mixed solvent exhibit finely distributed polymer fulleride interpenetrating network and significantly enhanced solar cell conversion efficiency. A power conversion efficiency over 6 can be achieved in solar cells based on fluorinated LY 16 PC61BM composite films prepared from mixed solvents.

Throughout this specification various indications have been given as to preferred and alternative embodiments of the invention. However it should be understood that the invention is not limited to any one of these. It is therefore intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the appended claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the spirit and scope of this invention.

4 5 Bis chloromethyl thiophene 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 2 To a mixture of 4.0 g 28 mmol of 1 and 11.0 g 136 mmol of chloromethyl methyl ether was added dropwise 8.4 g 42 mmol of TiClin an ice water bath and the mixture was stirred for 5 h at RT after the addition. 50 mL CHClwas added and the reaction mixture was poured to ice water. The organic phase was washed with brine dried and evaporated in vacuo. Recrystallization of the residue from hexane yield the title product as colorless needles 5.5 g 82 . HNMR CDCl 3.89 3H s 4.60 2H s 4.79 2H s 7.72 1H s . CNMR CDCl 37.07 37.29 52.44 132.85 134.83 137.04 161.85.

4 6 Dihydro thieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 3 A solution of 4.8 g 20 mmol 2 in 240 mL methanol was heated up and kept mild boiling. Sodium sulfide solution 1.7 g 22 mmol in 160 mL methanol was added dropwise in 2 h. After cooling of the reaction mixture the precipitate was filtered off. The solvent was removed by evaporation and the residue was washed by water. Column chromatography on silica gel using dichloromethane yielded the pure title compound as a white solid 2.0 g 50 . HNMR CDCl 3.87 3H s 4.05 4.06 2H t J 3 Hz 4.19 4.20 2H t J 3 Hz 7.48 1H s . CNMR CDCl 633.12 33.47 52.19 127.90 137.30 143.90 146.64 162.51.

Methyl thieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylate 5 A solution of 2.0 g 10 mmol 3 in 30 mL ethyl acetate was stirred and cooled down in dry ice bath. MCPBA 1.75 g 10 mmol in 30 mL ethyl acetate was added dropwise to the reaction solution. After the addition the mixture was kept stirring for overnight. Then the solvent was removed by evaporation and the residue contained a crude product of 4 and 3 chlorobenzoic acid.

The residue was refluxed in acetic anhydride for 2.5 h. The mixture was cooled down and the solvent was removed by evaporation. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel to give crude product of 5 1.62 g 82 . HNMR CDCl 3.90 3H s 7.29 7.30 1H d J 3 Hz 7.60 7.61 1H d J 3 Hz 7.71 1H s .

4 6 dibromothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylic acid 7 To a solution of 1.20 g 6.0 mmol 5 in 15 mL DMF was added dropwise a solution of NBS 2.70 g 15.0 mmol in 15 mL DMF under nitrogen protection at dark. The reaction mixture was heated up to 40 C. and kept stirring for 24 h. Then it was cooled down poured to saturated sodium sulfite solution at ice water bath and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was collected and dried by sodium sulfate. Removal of the solvent and column purification on silica get using dichloromethane hexane mix fluent yielded the target product 6 .

The free carboxylic acid 7 was obtained upon hydrolyzing the ester 6 by refluxing overnight with lithium hydroxide in THF HO solution followed by acidification in 1 N HCl solution. HNMR CD SO 7.73 1H s 13.46 1H s . MS EI Calcd 339.8. found M 1 340.7.

Dodecyl 4 6 dibromothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylate 8 1 0.68 g 2.0 mmol of 6 0.50 g 2.4 mmol DCC 84 mg 0.69 mmol DMAP were added to a 25 mL round bottom flask with 10 mL CHCl. 1.86 g 10.0 mmol of ROH dodecan 1 ol was added to the flask and then kept stirring for 20 h under Nprotection. The reaction mixture was poured to 60 mL water and extracted with CHCl. The organic phase was dried by sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed. Column chromatography on silica gel using hexane CHCl 4 1 yielded the pure title compound as light orange solid 0.75 g 74 . HNMR CDCl 0.86 0.89 3H t J 7 Hz 1.20 1.45 18H m 1.74 1.77 2H m 4.30 4.33 2H t J 7 Hz 7.54 1H s .

2 Methyltetradecyl 2 4 6 dibromothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylate 8 2 0.68 g 2.0 mmol of 8 0.50 g 2.4 mmol DCC 84 mg 0.69 mmol DMAP were added to a 10 mL round bottom flask with 5 mL CHCl. 2.28 g 10.0 mmol of 2 methyltetradecan 2 ol was added to the flask and then kept stirring for 20 h under Nprotection. The reaction mixture was poured to 30 mL water and extracted with CHCl. The organic phase was dried by sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed. Column chromatography on silica gel using hexane CHCl 4 1 yielded the pure title compound as light orange solid 0.63 g 72 . 0.86 0.89 3H t J 7 Hz 1.24 1.40 12H m 1.56 6H s 1.83 1.87 2H m 7.44 1H s .

2 Ethylhexyl 4 6 dibromothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylate 8 3 0.68 g 2.0 mmol of 8 0.50 g 2.4 mmol DCC 84 mg 0.69 mmol DMAP were added to a 10 mL round bottom flask with 5 mL CHCl. 1.3 g 10.0 mmol of 2 methyltetradecan 2 ol was added to the flask and then kept stirring for 20 h under Nprotection. The reaction mixture was poured to 30 mL water and extracted with CHCl. The organic phase was dried by sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed. Column chromatography on silica gel using hexane CHCl 4 1 yielded the pure title compound as light orange solid 0.63 g 72 . 0.90 0.96 6H m J 1.32 1.46 8H m 1.66 1.75 1H m 4.21 4.27 2H m 7.53 1H s .

Synthesis of other electronegative thieno 3 4 b thiophene monomers. To further lower the HOMO energy level in the polymers we propose the synthesis of several monomers that are more electronegative based on ester substituted thieno 3 4 b thiophene. M1 is replacing the carboxylic ester with a cyanide group cyanide is more electronegative than an ester. M2 is to change the thiophene ring to a thiazole ring a thaizole is more electronegative because of the nitrogen. The last two M3 M4 are introducing a more electron withdrawing functional group in the proton position. On group would be fluorine and the other would be cyanide. Synthesis of these monomers is outlined below.

4 8 Dioctoxybenzo 1 2 b 4 5 b dithiophene 9 1.0 g 4.5 mmol of benzo 1 2 b 4 5 b dithiophene 4 8 dione was mixed with 0.65 g 10 mmol of zinc dust in a flask. Then 4 ml of ethanol and 15 ml of 20 NaOH was added and the mixture was refluxed for 1 h. 4.3 mL octyl p toluenesulfonate was added in portions with stirring until the color changed to red. The resulting precipitate was filtered the filtrate was diluted with 100 mL water and extracted with 100 mL chloroform. The organic extraction was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. Column chromatography on silica gel using dichloromethane and hexanes mixed solvents yielded the pure title compound as a white solid 1.24 g 62 . HNMR CDCl 0.88 0.91 6H t J 7 Hz 1.31 1.38 16H m 1.54 1.58 4H m 1.84 1.89 4H m 4.26 4.29 4H J 7 Hz 7.36 7.37 2H d J 6 Hz 7.47 7.48 2H d J 6 Hz .

 10 0.62 g 1.4 mmol of 9 was dissolved in 20 mL anhydrous THF and cooled in acetone dry ice bath under nitrogen protection. 1.4 mL 3.5 mmol butyllithium solution 2.5M in hexanes was added dropwise with stirring after the addition the mixture was kept in dry ice bath for 30 mins and RT for 30 mins. The mixture was cooled into the dry ice bath and 4.2 mL 4.2 mmol trimethyltin chloride solution 1M in hexanes was added and kept stirring at RT for overnight. The mixture was quenched with 50 mL water and extracted with hexanes. The organic extraction was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. Recrystallization of the residue from isopropanol yields the title product as colorless needles 0.70 g 65 . HNMR CDCl 0.44 18H s 0.88 0.91 6H t J 7 Hz 1.31 1.38 16H m 1.54 1.58 4H m 1.86 1.90 4H m 4.28 4.31 4H J 7 Hz 7.51 2H s .

2 3 Bis chloromethyl 5 perflurohexyl thiophene 11 To a mixture of 4.0 g 10 mmol of 2 perflurohexyl thiophene and 4.0 g 50 mmol of chloromethyl methyl ether was added dropwise 4.6 g 18 mmol of SnClin an ice water bath and the mixture was stirred for 5 h at RT after the addition. 50 mL CHClwas added and the reaction mixture was poured to ice water. The organic phase was washed with brine dried and evaporated in vacuo. Column chromatography on silica gel using hexanes yielded the titled compound as light yellow oil 4.4 g 88 . HNMR CDCl 4.61 2H s 4.80 2H s 7.38 1H s .

2 Perflurohexyl 4 6 dihydro thieno 3 4 b thiophene 12 A solution of 5.0 g 10 mmol 11 in 100 mL methanol was heated up and kept mild boiling. Sodium sulfide solution 2.7 g 11 mmol in 80 mL methanol was added dropwise in 1 h. After cooling of the reaction mixture the precipitate was filtered off. The solvent was removed by evaporation and the residue was washed by water. Column chromatography on silica gel using hexanes dichloromethane 3 1 yielded the pure title compound as light yellow liquid 2.5 g 53 . HNMR CDCl 4.07 4.09 2H t J 3 Hz 4.21 4.23 2H m 7.13 1H s .

2 Perflurohexyl thieno 3 4 b thiophene 13 A solution of 2.3 g 5.0 mmol 12 in 40 mL ethyl acetate was cooled in a dry ice bath then 1.1 g 5.0 mmol 3 Chloroperbenzoic acid in 20 mL ethyl acetate was added dropwise. After the addition the mixture was kept stirring in dry ice bath for 2 h then RT 6 h. Removal of solvent under vacuum produced a white solid. The obtained solid was refluxed in 20 mL acetic anhydride for 2 h. Then the mixture was cooled down and solvent was removed under vacuum. Column chromatography on silica gel using hexanes as fluent yielded the title compound as colorless liquid 1.8 g 80 . HNMR CDCl 7.33 7.36 2H m 7.57 7.59 1H d J 2 Hz .

4 6 Dibromo 2 perflurohexyl thieno 3 4 b thiophene 14 To a solution of 2.75 g 6.0 mmol 5 in 15 mL DMF was added dropwise a solution of NBS 2.70 g 15.0 mmol in 15 mL DMF under nitrogen protection at dark. The reaction mixture was heated up to 40 C. and kept stirring for 24 h. Then it was cooled down poured to saturated sodium sulfite solution at ice water bath and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was collected and dried by sodium sulfate. Removal of the solvent and column purification on silica gel using hexane as fluent yielded the target product 14 3.32 g 90 . HNMR CDCl 7.20 1H s MS EI Calcd 616.1. found M 1 616.7.

Oligomer 18 331 mg 0.50 mmol of monomer 14 was weighted into a 25 mL round bottom flask. 2.13 g 1.20 mmol Tributylstannyl octithiophene and 25 mg of Pd PPh were added. The flask was subjected to 3 successive cycles of evacuation followed by refilling with argon. Then 4 mL anhydrous DMF and 16 mL anhydrous toluene were added via syringe. The reaction was carried out at 120 C. for 24 h. The raw product 16 was collected by precipitating in methanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 20 mL THF and cooled in dry ice bath. 1.8 mL of 1M TBAF solution was added dropwise and kept stirring in dry ice bath for 1 h then RT for overnight. The raw product 17 was collected by precipitating in hexanes. The product was further purified by column chromatography on silica gel using hexanes methylene chloride as fluent yielded the title compound 1.09 g 70 . HNMR CDCl 0.86 0.91 48H m 1.26 1.44 96H m 1.63 1.71 32H m 2.55 2.65 4H t J 8 Hz 2.73 2.82 28H m 6.90 1H s 6.96 7.00 11H m 7.02 7.03 2H d J 4 Hz 7.07 1H s 7.11 1H s 7.61 1H s .

To a solution of 0.93 g 0.30 mmol oligomer 17 in 30 mL THF was added dropwise a solution of NBS 0.133 g 0.75 mmol in 5 mL THF under nitrogen protection at dark. The reaction mixture was kept stirring for 24 h. The raw product 18 was collected by precipitating in hexanes. The product was further purified by column chromatography on silica gel using hexanes methylenechloride as fluent yielded the title compound 0.83 g 85 . HNMR CDCl 0.90 0.91 48H m 1.25 1.54 96H m 1.63 1.72 32H m 2.55 2.59 4H t J 8 Hz 2.73 2.80 28H m 6.69 2H s 6.82 7.11 12H m 7.61 1H s .

2 Methyltetradecyl 2 4 6 dibromothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylate 276 mg 0.50 mmol was weighted into a 25 mL round bottom flask. 331 mg 0.50 mmol 2 5 Bis tributylstannyl thiophene and 25 mg of Pd PPh were added. The flask was subjected to 3 successive cycles of evacuation followed by refilling with argon. Then 2 mL anhydrous DMF and 8 mL anhydrous toluene were added via syringe. The polymerization was carried out at 120 C. for 24 h. The raw product was collected by precipitating in methanol and the precipitate was dissolved in chloroform filtered with Celite to remove the metal catalyst. The final polymers were obtained by precipitating in hexanes and drying in vacuum for 12 h got solid 142 mg 60 . HNMR CDCl 0.80 1.00 3H br 1.00 1.80 26H br m 1.82 2.10 6H br 7.28 7.40 2H br 7.58 7.70 1H br . GPC Mw 98 10g mol PDI 1.76 .

LY 12 Monomer 8 2 255 mg 0.50 mmol was weighted into a 25 mL round bottom flask. Bis trimethylstannyl benzodithiophene 386 mg 0.50 mmol and Pd PPh 25 mg were added. The flask was subjected to 3 successive cycles of vacuum followed by refilling with argon. Then anhydrous DMF 2 mL and anhydrous toluene 8 mL were added via a syringe. The polymerization was carried out at 120 C. for 12 h under nitrogen protection. The raw product was collected by precipitating in methanol. The precipitate was dissolved in chloroform filtered with Celite to remove the metal catalyst. The final polymers were obtained by precipitating in hexanes and drying in vacuum for 12 h get solid 338 mg 85 . HNMR CDClCDCl 0.70 2.40 53H br 3.82 4.83 6H br 6.70 7.90 3H br . GPC Mw 23 10g mol PDI 1.29 .

LY 14 Polymer was synthesized by similar method as LY 12. Monomer 8 3 227 mg 0.50 mmol was weighted into a 25 mL round bottom flask. Bis trimethylstannyl benzodithiophene 386 mg 0.50 mmol and Pd PPh 25 mg were added. The flask was subjected to 3 successive cycles of vacuum followed by refilling with argon. Then anhydrous DMF 2 mL and anhydrous toluene 8 mL were added via a synnge. The polymerization was carried out at 120 C. for 12 h under nitrogen protection. The raw product was collected by precipitating in methanol. The precipitate was dissolved in chloroform filtered with Celite to remove the metal catalyst. The final polymers were obtained by precipitating in hexanes and drying in vacuum for 12 h get solid 296 mg 80 . HNMR CDClCDCl 0.70 2.42 45H br 3.90 4.80 6H br 6.70 8.00 3H br .GPC Mw 27 10g mol PDI 1.67 .

A device was made with the polymer LY 14 and an electron acceptor in a 1 1 mass ratio 14 mg mL polymer solution in chlorobenzene. The current density versus voltage is shown in . J 17.3 mA cm V 0.60 V FF 0.53 PCE 5.5 .

Synthesis of other electronegative thieno 3 4 b thiophene polymers. The dibrominated monomers will then undergo polymerization with ditin monomers through a palladium catalyzed Stille polycondensation reaction.

Polymer was synthesized by a similar procedure described above. Oligomer 18 327 mg 0.10 mmol was weighted into a 25 mL round bottom flask. 66 mg 0.10 mmol 2 5 Bis tributylstannyl thiophene and 5 mg of Pd PPh were added. The flask was subjected to 3 successive cycles of evacuation followed by refilling with argon. Then 2 mL anhydrous DMF and 8 mL anhydrous toluene were added via syringe. The polymerization was carried out at 120 C. for 24 h. The raw product was collected by precipitating in methanol and the precipitate was dissolved in chloroform filtered with Celite to remove the metal catalyst. The final polymers were obtained by precipitating in hexanes and drying in vacuum for 12 h got solid 288 mg 90 . HNMR CDCl 0.80 0.91 48H m 1.20 1.56 96H m 1.60 1.82 32H m 2.68 2.85 32H m 6.69 2H s 6.90 7.13 18H m 7.60 1H s . GPC Mw 19 10g mol PDI 1.37 .

LY 16 Octyl 6 dibromo 3 fluorothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylate 6 236 mg 0.50 mmol was weighted into a 25 mL round bottom flask. 2 6 Bistrimethyltin 4 8 Di 2 ethyl hexyloxybenzo 1 2 b 4 5 b dithiophene 9 386 mg 0.50 mmol and Pd PPh 25 mg were added. The flask was subjected to 3 successive cycles of vacuum followed by refilling with argon. Then anhydrous DMF 2 mL and anhydrous toluene 8 mL were added via a syringe. The polymerization was carried out at 120 C. for 12 h under nitrogen protection. The raw product was precipitated into methanol and collected by filtration. The precipitate was dissolved in chloroform filtered with Celite to remove the metal catalyst. The final polymers were obtained by precipitating in hexanes and drying in vacuum for 12 h yielding LY 16 309 mg 82 . HNMR CDClCDCl 0.80 2.40 45H br 3.90 4.70 6H br 7.00 7.90 2H br . GPC Mw 19.3 10g mol PDI 1.32 .

LY 14 LY 15 LY 17 and LY 18 are synthesized according to the same procedure as LY 16 with respective monomers. The HNMR and GPC data of the polymers are listed below 

LY 14 HNMR CDClCDCl 0.70 2.42 45H br 3.90 4.80 6H br 6.70 8.00 3H br . GPC Mw 23.2 10g mol PDI 1.38 .

LY 15 HNMR CDClCDCl 0.70 2.35 45H br 2.90 3.40 4H br 4.20 4.70 2H br 6.70 8.20 3H br . GPC Mw 23.7 103 g mol PDI 1.49 .

LY 17 HNMR CDCzCDCz 0.90 2.40 45H br 3.90 4.70 6H br 7.00 7.60 2H br 7.60 8.10 1H br . GPC Mw 22.7 10g mol PDI 1.41 .

LY 18 HNMR CDClCDCl 0.70 2.42 53H br 3.90 4.80 6H br 6.70 8.00 3H br . GPC Mw 25.0 10g mol PDI 1.50 .

The polymerization was carried out via the Stille polycondensation reaction. The corresponding monomers were synthesized according to the following routes.

To shorten the dodecyl ester chain in LY 12 a n octyl side chain substituted polymer was synthesized. Soluble LY 14 was synthesized with shortened and branched side chains. For comparison a more bulky branched side chain 2 butyloctyl was used in LY 18. The branched side chain can also be grafted to the benzodithiophene which lead to LY 17 with two 2 ethylhexyloxy side chain attached to the benzodithiophene ring. The alkoxy groups grafted on benzodithiophene ring are strong electron donating groups that can raise the HOMO energy level of the polymer. This will lead to the reduction in Voc detrimental to the performance of polymer solar cells. In order to further adjust the polymer s electronic properties LY 15 with less electron donating alkyl chains in benzodithiophene was synthesized.

To further lower the HOMO level a second electron withdrawing group can be introduced to the 3 position of the thieno 3 4 b thiophene ring. Fluorine is a good candidate to functionalize the 3 position because the fluorine has a high electronegativity. The size of the fluorine atom is small which will introduce only small steric hindrance for the configuration and packing of the polymer. The fluorinated thieno 3 4 b thiophene was synthesized via a modified route previously reported for ester substituted thieno 3 4 b thiophene above scheme . The fluorine was introduced to the fused ring unit from 4 6 dihydrothieno 3 4 b thiophene 2 carboxylic acid after deprotonation by using BuLi and reacting with PhS02NF. The fluorinated acid was first converted to ester and then dibromosubstituted thieno 3 4 b thiophene. Initially we attempted to introduce fluorine atom to LY 12 R n dodecyl R n octyloxy . The obtained polymer exhibited poor solubility and only dissolves in dichlorobenzene over 100 C. which makes it difficult to prepare uniform films. To increase the solubility benzodithiophene substituted with branch side chains was used and the fluorinated polymer LY 16 was obtained.

The structures of polymers were characterized with HNMR spectroscopy all consistent with the proposed ones. Gel permeation chromatography GPC studies showed that these polymers have similar weight averaged molecular weights between 19.3 25.0 kg mol with a relatively narrow polydispersity index PDI between 1.25 and 1.50. The results indicate that the changes in monomer structures did not lead to significant changes in polymerization reaction. These polymers have good solubility in chlorinated solvents such as chloroform and chlorobenzene. Thermogravimetric analyses TGA indicate that the polymers are stable up to about 200 C.

Cyclic voltammetry CV was used to study the electrochemical properties of the polymers. For calibration the redox potential of ferrocene ferrocenium Fc Fc was measured in the same condition and it s located at 0.09 V to the Ag Ag electrode. It is assumed that redox potential of Fc Fc has an absolute energy level of 4.80 eV to vacuum. The energy levels of HOMO and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO were then calculated according to the following equations 4.71 eV 4.71 eV where is the onset oxidation potential vs Ag Ag and is the onset reduction potential vs Ag Ag.

Hole mobility was measured according to a similar method described in literature using a diode configuration of ITO poly ethylenedioxythiophene doped with poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS Polymer Al by taking current voltage current in the range of 0 6 V and fitting the results to a space charge limited form the SCLC is described by 9 8 where is the permittivity of free space is the dielectric constant of the polymer is the hole mobility V is the voltage drop across the device and L is the polymer thickness V V V V Vis the applied voltage to the device Vis the voltage drop due to contact resistance and series resistance across the electrodes Vis the built in voltage due to the difference in work function of the two electrodes. The resistance of the device was measured using a blank configuration ITO PEDOT PSS Al and was found to be about 10 20 . The Vwas deduced from the best fit of the Jversus Vplot at voltages above 2.5 V and is found to be about 1.5 V. The dielectric constant is assumed to be 3 in our analysis which is a typical value for conjugated polymers. The thickness of the polymer films is measured by using AFM. Device Fabrication

The polymers LY 12 LY 14 LY 15 LY 16 LY 17 and LY 18 were co dissolved with PCBM in 1 2 dichlorobenzene DCB in the weight ratio of 1 1 respectively. LY 12 LY 14 and LY 15 concentrations were 10 mg ml while LY 15 LY 16 and LY 17 concentrations were 13 mg ml. For the last three polymer solutions mixed solvent effect was studied with about 3 volume 1 8 diiodooctance to further improve the final device performance.

Indium Tin Oxide ITO coated glass substrates 15 1 sq were cleaned stepwise in detergent water acetone and isopropyl alcohol under ultrasonication for 15 minutes each and subsequently dried in an oven for 5 hours. A thin layer 30 nm of PEDOT PSS Baytron P VP A1 4083 was spin coated onto ITO surface which was pre treated by ultraviolet ozone for 15 min. Low conductivity PEDOT PSS was chosen to minimize measurement error from device area due to lateral conductivity ofPEDOT PSS. After being baked at 12 C. for 20 min the substrates were transferred into a nitrogen filled glove box 

The fabricated device was encapsulated in nitrogen filled glove box by UV epoxy bought from Epoxy Technology and cover glass. The current density voltage J V curves were measured using Keithley 2400 source measure unit. The photocurrent was measured under AM 1.50 illumination at 100 mW cmunder Newport Thermal Oriel 91192 1000W solar simulator 4 4 beam size . The light intensity was determined by a mono silicon detector with KG 5 visible color filter calibrated by National Renewable Energy Laboratory NREL to minimize spectral mismatch.

External Quantum Efficiencies EQEs were measured in UCLA by using lock in amplifier SR830 Stanford Research Systems with current preamplifier SR570 Stanford Research Systems under short circuit condition. The devices were illuminated by monochromatic light from a xenon lamp passing through a monochromator SpectraPro 2150i Acton Research Corporation with a typical intensity of 10 W. The monochromic incident beam is chopped with a mechanical chopper prior to reaching the device connected to lock in amplifier and then focused on the testing pixel of the device. The photocurrent signal is then amplified by SR570 and detected with SR830. A calibrated mono silicon diode with known spectral response is used as a reference. Conductive atomic force microscopy measurement

All CAFM measurements were done under ambient conditions using a commercial scanning probe microscope Asylum Research MFP 3D . Platinum coated contact mode AFM cantilevers with spring constant of 0.2 N m and tip radius of ca. 25 nm Budget Sensors were used to map out the hole current of films in the dark using contact mode. The deflection set point are 0.3 V and bias voltage are 2 V for all the sample measurements and the conditions used to prepare the films are same to make the solar cell device.

The HOMO and LUMO energy level of the polymers were determined by cyclic voltammetry CV and the results were summarized in . The HOMO energy levels of the polymers are very close except for LY 15 and LY 16. From the comparison of LY 14 and LY 15 it was noticed that the substitution of octyloxy side chain to octyl side chain lowered the HOMO energy level of the polymer from 4.94 eV to 5.04 eV. Comparing LY 16 and LY 17 polymers with same side chain patterns it is clear that the introduction of the electron withdrawing fluorine in polymer backbone significantly lowered the HOMO level. Characteristics of the polymer absorption are summarized in the table below. All these polymers show very similar absorption spectra the changes of the absorption peak and onset point among the polymers are within 25 nm.

The hole mobility of the polymers is measured according to method based on space charge limited current SCLC model and the results are plotted in . The hole mobility of 4.7 10cm V s 4.0 10cm V s 7.1 10cm V s 7.7 10cm V 4.0 10cm V s 2.6 10cm V s are found for LY 12 LY 14 LY 15 LY 16 LY 17 and LY 18 respectively. A small decrease of the polymer hole mobility is observed after the introduction of bulky branched side chains to the polymer backbones. It is expected that the bulky side chains may increase the steric hindrance for intermolecular packing so the hole mobility decreases. This explains that the largest decrease of the hole mobility happens to LY 18 which has the most bulky 2 butyloctyl side chain on the ester group. It is interesting to note that the alkyl grafted LY 15 has higher mobility than the alkoxy grafted LY 14 though they both have similar side chain patterns. LY 16 has the largest hole mobility of 7.7 10 4 cm2 V s among these polymers. It has been reported that there is a strong n stacking among interaction between the electron deficient fluorinated aromatic rings and the electron rich non fluorinated ones in the fluorine substituted aromatic moieties. The increase of mobility in fluorinated LY 16 is probably due to the increase in intermolecular packing between fluorinated backbone. Detailed studies by using grazing angle x ray diffraction are in progress to elucidate polymer structures and will be presented in the future publication.

Photovoltaic properties of the polymers were investigated in solar cell structures of ITO PEDOT PSS polymer PCBM 1 1 wt ratio Ca Al. The polymer active layers were spin coated from a dichlorobenzene solution. Representative characteristics of the solar cells are summarized in the table below. Generally the bulky side chain grafted polymers show larger Vthan LY 12 as they have lower HOMO energy levels. The alkyl substituted LY 15 has an enhanced Vcompared to LY 14 which is expected from the HOMO energy level difference. The fluorinated polymer LY 16 devices showed a larger Voc than LY 17. However except for LY 14 and LY 15 the other polymer solar cells suffer obvious decrease in short circuit current Js and fill factor FF compared to the LY 12 solar cell. Further studies by using transmission electron microscopy TEM indicated that the poor solar cell performances in LY 15 to LY 18 are related to the non optimized morphology which has a large effect on the BHJ polymer solar cell performance. The TEM images of polymer PCBM blend films are shown in LY 12 a LY 14 b LY 15 c LY 16 d LY 17 e LY 18 f . Polymer PCBM blend films prepared from mixed solvents dichlorobenzene diiodooctance 97 3 v v LY 15 g LY 16 h LY 17 i .

The TEM images of LY 14 PCBM blend film shows finer features comparable to LY 12 one which may be due to the increase in the miscibility of the polymer with PCBM after shortening the dodecyl side chain into 2 ethylhexyl side chain. As a result Jsc and FF in LY 14 solar cell are slightly larger than LY 12 one. However large domains are observed in their PCBM blend films of LY 17 or LY 18. The bulky side chains reduce the miscibility of polymer with PCBM leading to better phase separation between polymer chains and PCBM molecules. As a result the interfacial areas of charge separation in LY 17 or LY 18 are reduced and the polymer solar cell performances diminished. It is not coincident that the LY 18 has the largest feature sizes 150 200 nm in TEM image and its solar cell performance is the worst. With the same side chain patterns as LY 17 the fluorinated LY 16 also suffer the non optimized morphology as shown the large features over 100nm in the TEM image of LY 16 PCBM blend film. Although LY 16 shows the lowest HOMO energy level and the largest hole mobility its photovoltaic performance in simple polymer PCBM solar cells is modest 3.10 . Comparing LY 14 and LY 15 with similar side chain patterns LY 15 has a larger Jsc than LY 14 which is due to the increase of hole mobility in LY 15. However the better packing ability in LY 15 may reduce its miscibility with PCBM and there are a few large features about 50 nm in the TEM images of LY 15 PCBM blend film. Due to the non optimized morphology LY 15 solar cell suffers a slight decrease on FF compared to LY 14. But with the increase in Jsc and Voc LY 15 devices still show 5.53 PCE.

Insightful information on the effect of morphology on charge transport behaviors of composite films was obtained from studies using conductive atomic force microscopy CAFM . The two dimensional current maps correlate well with nanoscale domain structure observed from TEM in solar cell films. We select LY 14 and LY 18 systems as example to illustrate this point. and show the CAFM current images at fixed bias voltage of 2 V for films LY 14 PCBM and LY 18 PCBM. Consistent with TEM study we observe donor acceptor interfaces throughout the films with interpenetrating networks of donor acceptor material in the LY 14 film. The high hole current features dark areas are contributions from polymer rich domains and are distributed uniformly over whole LY 14 PCBM film surface which makes the solar cells high current density. In contrast there are low current areas in the images and largely phase separated features throughout the LY 18 PCBM films. The much lower current see the difference in scale bar of LY 18 reflects the lower hole mobility of LY 18 than LY 14.

This morphological problem can be remedied by using mixed solvents in preparing polymer fullerides spin coating solution. Primary study showed that the LY 15 PCBM blend film exhibited improved morphology by using dichlorobenzene 1 8 diiooctane 97 3 v v as solvent there are no large features and it shows similar morphology as LY 12 or LY 14 blend film in TEM image. The PCE of such polymer solar cell reaches to 5.85 . Similar morphology change for LY 16 PCBM and LY 17 PCBM blend films was observed and . Dramatic enhancement in solar cell performance can be observed both in LY 16 and LY 17 solar cells. Besides the increase of the Voc LY 16 solar cell shows larger Jsc than LY 17 one possibly due to the higher hole mobility in fluorinated LY 16. It can also explain the slight increase of the FF in the LY 16 solar cell. Therefore we have successfully improved the Voc from 0.58V to 0.74V 28 over LY 12 polymer system without scarification in photocurrent. The PCE from the LY 16 PCBM solar cell reached to 5.9 . shows the EQE spectrum of LY 16 PCBM solar cell prepared from mixed solvent. It can very efficiently harvest the light in the maximum photon flux region 680 nm showing over 50 from 550 nm to 750 nm. A spectral mismatch factor M of 0.965 can be calculated by inserting AM1.5G standard spectrum Oriel solar simulator with 1.5G filter spectrum and EQE data. The efficiency of LY 16 PCBM solar cell thus reaches to 6.1 which is the highest value so far for single layer polymer solar cells.

