---

title: System and methods for mobile applications using vehicle telematics data
abstract: Operating state information is received at an on-board telematics control unit (TCU) from an on-board diagnostic (OBD) system of a vehicle. The TCU transmits an indication of vehicle state over at least a wireless data link component of a communications network for delivery to a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device receives the indication of vehicle state and utilizes the indication of vehicle state at a mobile application program. In one example, the mobile application program presents vehicle state information via a graphical display of the mobile computing device. In another example, the mobile application program augments a functionality of the mobile computing device responsive to the indication of vehicle state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367968&OS=09367968&RS=09367968
owner: Moj.io Inc.
number: 09367968
owner_city: Vancouver
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140124
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 849 318 titled SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATIONS USING VEHICLE TELEMATICS DATA filed Jan. 25 2013 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Presently on board diagnostic OBD systems are incorporated into many types of vehicles and provide an electronic solution for controlling diagnosing and reporting the operating state of the vehicle. OBD II is a non limiting example of a standard for on board diagnostics and is available on virtually every car manufactured since Jan. 1 2006. The OBD II standard relates at least in part to emissions control but is not limited in this respect. OBD II may be implemented with a variety of electrical connection protocols but the command set is defined at least in part by standard SAE J1979. The OBD II standard includes an extensible set of proprietary diagnostic trouble codes for example.

In one aspect of the present disclosure a telematics control unit TCU residing on board a vehicle and interfacing with an on board diagnostic OBD system of the vehicle receives vehicle state information from the OBD system. The TCU transmits an indication of vehicle state for delivery to a mobile computing device over at least a wireless data link component of a communications network.

The indication of vehicle state transmitted by the TCU may be based at least in part on the vehicle state information received at the TCU from the OBD system. Alternatively or additionally the indication of vehicle state may be based on and or combined with vehicle state information obtained via one or more sensors of the TCU. In at least some implementations the TCU may store a history of vehicle state information obtained from the OBD system and or the TCU s sensors over a period of time. The indication of vehicle state transmitted by the TCU may include or may be based on the history of vehicle state information.

The indication of vehicle state may be utilized at or by a mobile application program of the mobile computing device. The mobile application program may for example present the indication of vehicle state via a graphical display of the mobile computing device to inform a user of the current or historical state of the vehicle. Alternatively or additionally the mobile application program may augment a functionality of the mobile computing device responsive to the indication of vehicle state. As a non limiting example the mobile application program may block the transmission reception and or notification of telephone calls text messages and or Internet browsing messages.

An indication of vehicle state reported by a TCU may be received at a mobile computing device or other computing device utilizing vehicle state information via a variety of communications paths. In one example a mobile computing device may receive an indication of vehicle state directly from a TCU via a direct wireless data link established between mobile computing device and the TCU. In another example a TCU may transmit an indication of vehicle state to a service platform that in turn transmits the indication of vehicle state or a processed form thereof to a mobile computing device via a second wireless data link. In yet another example the service platform may transmit the indication of vehicle state or a processed form thereof to a third party service via an application programming interface in which the third party service transmits the indication of vehicle state or processed form to the mobile computing device.

This summary includes only some of the concepts disclosed in greater detail by the following detailed description and associated drawings. As such claimed subject matter is not limited to the contents of this summary.

The present disclosure is directed to the acquisition processing sharing and utilization of vehicle telematics data. A variety of available technologies enable vehicles to communicate with remote systems for the purpose of navigation safety entertainment and data collection. These technologies may be broadly referred to as telematics and may utilize hardware and software components installed on board the vehicle. Telematics data including vehicle state information obtained from a vehicle s on board diagnostic OBD system or telematics control unit as well as telematics data transmitted to a vehicle provide vehicle owners operators and third parties with a myriad of information concerning the operating state location and use of the vehicle.

Cellular technologies enable communications between a vehicle and remote computing systems via a cellular network and at a bandwidth suitable for the purposes of transmitting telematics data and delivering navigation safety and entertainment solutions to or from the vehicle. GPS navigation systems may be installed in most vehicles and can provide accurate real time location and navigation information such as speed and direction of travel. Mobile computing devices such as smartphones may include a GPS receiver and mobile application programs running on these devices may feature location awareness. Mobile application programs may also be connected to social networks via an Internet connection to provide further sharing and dissemination of information among any number of users.

In light of these considerations there exists a need for providing both real time and historical automotive telematics data to remote computing systems via a network. In particular there is a need for a technology that can anticipate or predict driver needs based on telematics data. It would be advantageous for an open solution to be provided that supports third party services and third party application programs including those that may be integrated with social networking services.

Within the context of the present disclosure a variety of different entities may take part in the acquisition processing sharing and utilization of telematics data. Non limiting examples of these entities include 1 telematics control units TCUs that interface with vehicle on board diagnostic OBD systems 2 human operable client devices such as mobile and non mobile computing devices 3 a service platform typically hosted at one or more network accessible servers and 4 various third party services also typically hosted at one or more network accessible servers. While various concepts are presented herein with reference to these different entities it will be understood that these concepts are not limited to use with any or all of these entities unless expressly indicated.

In at least some implementations OBD system may communicate with or be integrated with a control system of vehicle that further includes various on board sensors operator controls logic subsystems executable instructions data storage electronic circuitry etc. for controlling or enabling operation of the vehicle. Vehicle may take a variety of different forms including a land based wheeled or track vehicle e.g. a passenger vehicle work vehicle car truck bus tractor train locomotive motorcycle snowmobile etc. an aircraft e.g. airplane helicopter etc. a marine vessel e.g. boat or personal watercraft or other type of vehicle.

Vehicle is further depicted as including a TCU located on board the vehicle. It will be appreciated that vehicle may be one of a plurality of vehicles having their own respective OBD system and on board TCU. In at least some implementations TCU may take the form of an aftermarket device that is installed by a vehicle owner operator or technician after purchase of the vehicle or at the time of purchase of the vehicle. In other implementations TCU may form part of and or be integrated with OBD system . In one example TCU may take the form of a special purpose computing device and OBD system in combination with TCU may collectively form an on board computing system of vehicle .

TCU includes an interface for communicating information and or exchanging electrical power with OBD system via a respective interface . Such communications and or electrical power indicated schematically at may include bi directional communications between TCU and OBD system and may additionally or alternatively include unidirectional flow of communications and or electrical power between OBD system and TCU .

As one example interface of OBD system may take the form of a hardware data link connector or data port such as ALDL OBD I OBD 1.5 OBD II or other suitable interface. Interface of TCU may take the form of a hardware data link connector or data port that corresponds to and physically mates with interface . Within the context of the OBD protocol standards for example these interfaces may be referred to as an OBD protocol compliant diagnostic port connector interface.

TCU may be physically added to and or removed from interfacing with OBD system at the boundary of interfaces and . Alternatively or additionally a wireless link between interface and interface may be utilized for the exchange of communications and or electrical power. In wireless implementations these interfaces may include wireless receivers transmitters or transceivers and associated electronic components supporting one or more wireless communication protocols and or wireless power transmission. In at least some implementations TCU may include its own power source while in other implementations TCU may receive electrical power from vehicle via interface as indicated schematically at .

Additional aspects of TCU will be described in greater detail with reference to . Briefly however TCU may take the form of a computing device including at least a logic subsystem a data storage subsystem and a communications subsystem that is capable of communicating with a variety of other computing devices beyond OBD system . For example depicts example wireless communications between TCU and mobile computing device indicated by communication flow and various other computing devices connected to communications network as indicated by communication flow .

In at least some implementations the TCUs of the present disclosure may utilize machine to machine M2M cellular data exchange to send data to and receive data from the service platform third party services and or mobile computing device in real time via a cellular network. At least some of these communications may not traverse the Internet or other wired networks. In some use scenarios the data exchanged may be relatively small e.g. 100 kB per message or set of messages and thereby requires less bandwidth than typical email or web browsing uses for example.

A mobile computing device such as example mobile computing device may include or take the form of a wireless enabled portable electronic device such as a smartphone a tablet computer mobile communications device a notebook or laptop computer a wearable computing device e.g. in the form of glasses or a wristwatch an in vehicle computing device etc. Within computing system mobile computing device includes a mobile data store and a mobile application program .

In one example mobile application program may take the form of a general purpose application program such as a web browser. The web browser may have been included with mobile computing device at the time of purchase or may form part of an operating system of the mobile computing device. In this context a user may operate the web browser to navigate to any accessible network resource including websites of the world wide web service platform and third party services .

In another example mobile application program may take the form of a special purpose application program that is paired with and or configured specifically for use with one or more of TCU service platform and or any suitable number of third party services . In such case the special purpose application program may not have been included with mobile computing device at the time of purchase. Typically special purpose application programs may be subsequently downloaded from an application program marketplace or network resource hosted at service platform third party service or other suitable network location over communications network after which the application program may be installed and executed at a computing device such as example mobile computing device . A service enabled computing device may be refer to a general purpose computing device upon which a special purpose application program operates that is paired with and or configured specifically for use with one or more of a TCU or a network service such as service platform and or third party service for example.

In at least some implementations mobile application program may be one of a plurality of application programs downloadable to and or installed on mobile computing device that are capable of interacting with TCU service platform and or third party services . For example each third party service may offer its own proprietary mobile application program in addition to or as an alternative to a native mobile application program i.e. native to service platform in contrast to third party applications that is offered by service platform for use with TCU . In some use scenarios service platform may require the installation and use of a native application program at a user s computing device prior to enabling use of that computing device with TCU with third party services or with third party applications.

Computing system further includes server system that hosts service platform . Server system may include one or more server devices that are co located and or geographically distributed. Service platform may take the form of a web service or network based service that is accessible over at least an Internet protocol portion of communications network . Service platform may support a programming interface such as an API through which other computing devices and or software modules e.g. application programs or portions thereof of computing system may obtain information post information access information initiate or receive commands and or communicate with or through service platform . depicts an example communication flow between service platform of server system and communications network .

In one example TCU and or software stored within and executed by TCU may be paired with or specifically configured for use in conjunction with service platform . TCU and service platform may have been developed marketed and or sold by the same business entity for example. In such case service platform may be referred to as the native service platform with regards to TCU . Within at least some implementations TCU may be required initialized or registered with service platform before some or all operations of TCU are enabled and may utilize non public proprietary protocols to enforce such exclusivity. In other implementations TCU may have been developed marketed and or sold by a different business entity from the operator of service platform . In this implementation TCU may be one of a plurality of brands of TCUs that are capable of operating in conjunction with a plurality of service platforms such as example service platform and may utilize public non proprietary protocols to facilitate communications.

Computing system of may include additional computing devices such as example server system that hosts third party service . Third party service may be one of a plurality of independently owned operated third party services for TCU that are made available by one or more different business entities relative to the owner operator of service platform . Some third party services may include or take the form of a social networking service. Server system may include one or more server devices that are co located and or geographically distributed. Third party service may take the form of a web service or network based service that is accessible over at least an Internet protocol portion of communications network . Third party service may support a programming interface such as an API through which other computing devices and or software modules of computing system may obtain information post information access information initiate or receive commands and or communicate with or through the third party service. depicts an example communication flow between third party service of server system and communications network .

Communications network may include or take the form of one or more wired and or wireless networks. Communications network may include one or more wide area networks such as the Internet or a portion thereof one or more cellular networks one or more telephone networks various intermediate networking devices and edge devices such as wireless and or wired access points etc. depicts example wireless access points and of communications network . Wireless access points and may support the same or different wireless communications protocols. As one example wireless access points and may each support communications over wide area cellular network protocols. As another example wireless access point may support communications over a local area network using the Wi Fi protocol while wireless access point may support communications over a wide area cellular network.

Wireless communications between two or more devices may take the form of relatively short range direct wireless communications link utilizing near field communications or a personal area network via an RFID protocol the Bluetooth wireless communication protocol the Wi Fi wireless communication protocol or other suitable wireless communication protocol. As a non limiting example communication flow depicted in between TCU and mobile device may take the form of relatively short range wireless communications over a near field communication link and or personal area network using one or more of RFID Bluetooth and or Wi Fi communication protocols. Alternatively or additionally communication flow may take the form of a direct wired communications link between TCU and mobile device .

In the context of example computing system mobile computing device is depicted as being physically nearby TCU to enable wireless communications with TCU over a direct wireless link. However it will be understood that wireless communications between TCU and mobile computing devices may be provided over a local area network and or a wide area network using other suitable protocols and may traverse one or more intermediate networking devices and or access points such as example wireless access points and or of network as indicated by wireless links and . For example wireless links and or may utilize GSM 3G UMTS 3GPP and or 4G LTE 3GPP cellular protocols Wi Fi 802.11 protocols as defined by IEEE Wi Max 802.16 protocols as defined by IEEE or other suitable wireless communication protocols. For example communication flows and depicted in in association with communications network may take the form of relatively long range wireless communications using one or more of these wireless communication protocols.

At a telematics control unit TCU residing on board a vehicle and interfacing with an on board diagnostic OBD system of a vehicle receives vehicle state information from the OBD system. Vehicle state information may include any suitable information obtained by the OBD system from on board vehicle sensors operator input the vehicle control system etc. Non limiting examples of vehicle state information include engine and or electric motor on off state vehicle speed vehicle mileage vehicle location in the case of GPS navigation information vehicle identification number VIN indication of vehicle type engine temperature the selected transmission gear parking brake state fuel level battery level error or service codes reported by the vehicle exhaust system measurements etc. Vehicle state information reported by the OBD system may include real time and or historical vehicle state information.

At the TCU receiving vehicle state information from the OBD system may 1 store a history of the vehicle state information received from the OBD system over a period of time 2 obtain additional vehicle state information from one or more sensors of the TCU 3 process the vehicle state information received from the OBD system alone or in combination with additional vehicle state information received from the TCU s sensors to obtain an indication of vehicle state. Accordingly an indication of vehicle state may include raw and or processed vehicle state information obtained over any suitable time period from the either or both of the OBD system and or the TCU s sensors. The indication of vehicle state may be transmitted by the TCU for delivery to the mobile computing device using a variety of different approaches and may be accompanied by an identifier of the TCU and or the VIN of the vehicle.

As one example at the indication of vehicle state may be transmitted by the TCU directly to the mobile computing device via a wired or wireless data link. In at least some implementations a wired data link may be established between the mobile computing device and a USB port or other suitable data port of the TCU. In other implementations the TCU may transmit over a wireless data link component of a communications network. The wireless data link component may take the form of a direct wireless data link established between the TCU and the mobile computing device. As non limiting examples the direct wireless data link may utilize Bluetooth Wi Fi or a near field e.g. RFID etc. communications protocol. In another implementation the wireless data link over which the indication is transmitted by the TCU may include a cellular data link established with a cellular network and through which the indication is communicated by at least the cellular network component for delivery to the mobile computing device either directly or via one or more wireless access points of the cellular network.

As another example at the indication of vehicle state may be transmitted by the TCU to a service platform such as example service platform of . In at least some implementations the TCU may transmit to a wireless access point of a cellular network over a wireless data link component of a broader communications network that includes wired back haul components of the Internet or other network for example. The service platform may process the indication of vehicle state in some examples to obtain a processed form of information having any suitable format. The service platform may aggregate the indication of vehicle state with other forms or indications of vehicle state information obtained from the TCU over a period of time. The form or format of vehicle state information may be selected and obtained by the service platform specifically for utilization at or by an application program or by a third party service. For example a mobile application program may be paired or configured specifically for use with the service platform and may be configured to obtain vehicle state information from the service platform in a particular form or format. At the service platform may transmit the indication of vehicle state or a processed form of the indication of vehicle state to the mobile computing device. In at least some implementations the service platform transmits the indication of vehicle state or a processed form to the mobile computing device over at least a second wireless data link component of the communications network including a cellular wide area network or a wireless local area network for example.

As yet another example at the indication of vehicle state may be transmitted by the TCU to a service platform as previously described at . The service platform receives stores and may process the indication of vehicle state in some examples to obtain any suitable form of state information as previously described. At the service platform may transmit the indication of vehicle state or a processed form of vehicle state information to a third party service over a wide area network component of the communications network e.g. the Internet or a portion thereof . In at least some implementations the third party service may request subscribe to and or receive the indication of vehicle state or a processed form of vehicle state information from the service platform via an application programming interface API of the service platform. The third party service receives stores and may perform additional processing on the indication of vehicle state or previously processed form obtained from the service platform to obtain any suitable form of vehicle state information. Hence multiple levels of processing aggregation etc. may be performed on vehicle state information obtained at a TCU. The third party service may for example be a service of a mobile application program and the mobile application program may be paired or configured specifically for use with the third party service. The third party service transmits the indication of vehicle state or processed form to the mobile computing device as indicated at . In at least some implementations the third party service transmits the indication of vehicle state or a processed form to the mobile computing device over at least a second wireless data link component of the communications network including a cellular wide area network or a wireless local area network for example.

As indicated at the service platform may transmit the indication of vehicle state or processed form to one or more other computing devices. These other computing devices may include client computing devices server devices or network enabled appliances or electronic devices for example. Similarly as indicated at the third party service may transmit the indication of vehicle state or processed form to other computing devices. The dissemination of information among network entities may be limited or controlled by user account permission settings session authentication and or other suitable techniques. Aspects of these other computing devices will be described in greater detail with reference to .

In each of the above examples the mobile computing device and perhaps other computing devices receives the indication of vehicle state or a processed form that originated from the TCU based on information reported by the OBD system and may have been delivered and or processed by way of a service platform and or a third party service. The indication of vehicle state or processed form described in may be one of a series of indications of vehicle state transmitted by one or more TCUs for delivery to one or more computing devices. In each case the mobile computing device or other computing device may utilize an indication of vehicle state at an application program for example by 1 presenting the indication of vehicle state or processed form to a user e.g. via a graphical display of the computing device and or via an audio speaker of the computing device and or 2 augmenting functionality of the computing device responsive to the indication of vehicle state or processed form e.g. as will be described in further detail with reference to e.g. .

It will be appreciated in light of the above process flow how information may be transmitted in an opposite direction from the process flow of to enable the exchange of information among or between one or more of the OBD system TCU client computing devices third party services and the service platform. As a non limiting example commands initiated at or by one or more of a mobile computing device non mobile computing device third party service and or service platform may initiate an operation at the TCU or the OBD system. For example a user may initiate a command at a mobile computing device that is communicated to the OBD system via the TCU potentially traversing a third party service or the service platform. As another example the service platform or a third party service may initiate a command to a TCU to cause an operation to be performed at or by the TCU or OBD system on behalf of a user according to one or more trigger conditions. Operations performed at an OBD system may include vehicle operations such as locking unlocking vehicle doors enabling disabling a vehicle alarm system turning the vehicle on off etc. It will be understood that any suitable operation may be performed at or by the vehicle responsive to commands initiated by a user device or trigger conditions set by a user.

Instructions may include one or more service modules . A service module may refer to an instruction set program or a portion thereof. Non limiting examples of at least some of service modules include initialization services TCU services client services application program services and application program marketplace among other suitable services. It will be understood that server system may include additional components not depicted in such as one or more network interfaces power supplies etc. Some or all of these components of server system may provide a non limiting example of previously described service platform or third party service of .

Server system further includes one or more client servers that interface with a variety of other client devices including third party server systems services e.g. server system service of mobile computing devices e.g. mobile computing device of non mobile computing devices e.g. computing device of etc. As depicted in communications between client servers and these devices may traverse the Internet or a portion thereof and may utilize an API that is supported and implemented by client servers . Internet may form part of a larger communications network e.g. communications network over which devices communicate with client servers . For example client servers may communicate with these devices over both the Internet and additionally over one or more cellular networks or local area wireless networks if utilized by such devices to obtain Internet connectivity.

Server system further includes a data access layer through which information stored in data store may be accessed retrieved posted etc. TCU servers and or client servers may reference information stored in data store responsive to communications with each other with TCUs and or with other client computing devices to process requests for example. Various aspects of may take the form of one or more service modules of that are implemented by one or more server devices. While depicts separate TCU servers and client servers it will be understood that an individual server may take the form of both a TCU server and a client server. For example referring also to service modules may include a TCU server module for providing TCU service functionality and a client server module for providing client service functionality. API and or data access layer may also take the form of respective service modules. Data store may correspond to previously described data store and may include a database system that includes one or more information databases.

As a non limiting implementation of server system may receive via API requests from third party services and or mobile application programs for vehicle state information stored in association with respective user accounts. Server system may respond to these requests by transmitting vehicle state information to the third party services and or mobile application programs over the communications network for those respective user accounts. Third party services may in turn deliver the requested vehicle state information to respective mobile application programs of those third party services.

Network interfaces may include one or more of a GPS subsystem Bluetooth communications subsystem cellular communications subsystem a near field communications NFC subsystem e.g. an NFC chip and LEDs and a Wi Fi communications subsystem among other suitable communications subsystems. These communications subsystems may include receivers transmitters transceivers power amplifiers filters logic systems or other suitable electronic circuitry for enabling communications over a respective protocol.

GPS subsystem includes a receiver or transceiver that provides location information to the TCU which may be reported to the user s mobile computing device the service platform third party services and other computing devices. The GPS subsystem enables location aware services and applications and may be integrated with other application programs running on the user s mobile computing device such as a calendar application for example. In an example scenario the TCU service platform third party service or the mobile application program may locate and reserve available parking spots near the user s planned destination based on geo location information reported by the TCU. In another example scenario where the service platform or third party service has an API connection to a parking company s payment system the service platform or third party service may select or determine the street side parking spot or parking garage stall and process payment on behalf of the user utilizing pre stored user account information.

Bluetooth subsystem may connect the TCU to a user s mobile device and can be used to configure the user s in vehicle experience according to the application programs and or services to which the user subscribes. The vehicle may be the user s own vehicle or it may belong to someone else and may be a rental vehicle for example. Communications between the TCU and the user s mobile computing device be used to trigger actions when the mobile computing device is in proximity to the vehicle as sensed by the TCU including e.g. locking or unlocking the doors turning lights on and off etc. These functions may be pre set by the user via the mobile application program for example. User settings may be stored in a user account within the service platform third party service mobile computing device or the TCU. In some examples communications can provide a level of security by disabling the vehicle ignition by sending a command from the TCU via the interface with the OBD system until the user s mobile computing device is within proximity to the vehicle.

In one example scenario Bluetooth and or Wi Fi subsystems may be used to capture data from inward facing and or outward facing cameras of the vehicle immediately before a collision. The data may be used for insurance purposes or to combat fraud. Other equipment on board the vehicle can be used in conjunction with camera data to provide a fuller picture of events leading up to the collision. For example the accelerometer can provide information on the speed and acceleration of the vehicle the direction of impact and the condition of the vehicle before and after impact.

Near field communications may be provided by near field subsystem . Near field communications may be used for example to identify the driver of vehicle based on an identifier of the mobile computing device and to automatically configure the driving experience. For example the TCU may auto configure the vehicle to the driver s personalized application programs settings and services subscribed to by the user.

OBD interface may include for example an OBD II compliant interface an OBD data logger e.g. an OBD II data logger and a USB port for communicating with a computing device over a wired communications link. Input output subsystem may include one or more accelerometers a microphone an audio speaker a display e.g. a graphical display or LEDs gesture control sensors and other suitable input and or output elements that are operable and or perceivable by a user operator. Accelerometer may be used by the TCU to sense movement of the vehicle to measure the bumpiness of a road surface or to detect the smashing of a window in the vehicle. These measurements or indications of events may be reported to the user or other entities as previously described with reference to . A driver can use gesture control sensors e.g. including one or more optical sensors to communicate with the TCU using hard movements for example. Non limiting examples include changing a song playing on the audio system of the vehicle opening a channel for voice communication using an application program running on the TCU or on the driver s mobile device.

At an application program e.g. a mobile application program may be downloaded and installed by a computing device e.g. mobile application program over a communications network from an application program marketplace or online storefront. At a serial number or other suitable identifier of the TCU may be entered into the application program at the computing device. The serial number or identifier may be printed on a housing of the TCU or may accompany the TCU in the form of product literature for example. In at least some implementations the serial number or other identifier may be manually entered by a user at the computing device using one or more keystrokes or a touch screen inputs and the number or identifier may be received by the application program. In other implementations an identifier of the TCU may be received as an image of an optical code captured via a camera of the computing device.

At the application program may check for a match of some or all of 1 the identifier of the computing device 2 the TCU serial number or other identifier 3 a number for the SIM card located within the TCU and 4 the VIN of the vehicle. The serial number or other identifier of the TCU submitted via the application program may be transmitted over a wired or wireless communications network to the service platform by the application program. The service platform may receive and store the TCU identifier and an identifier of the computing device. The identifier of the computing device may take the form of a mobile computing device identifier e.g. a SIM card number of the mobile computing device a phone number of the mobile computing device an application program identifier a user account identifier an IP address etc. that is capable of distinguishing multiple computing devices or users from each other.

The service platform may compare the TCU serial number or identifier received from the application program to determine if a matched relationship exists with the SIM card number of the TCU. In at least some implementations an association between the SIM card number and the TCU serial number or identifier may be established at the service platform prior to sale and distribution of the TCU. Responsive to a match between the SIM card number and the TCU serial number an association may be established by the service platform between some or all of 1 an identifier of the computing device 2 the TCU serial number or identifier 3 the SIM card number of the TCU and 4 the VIN of the vehicle. In at least some implementations the application program may require that the user manually enter the VIN of the vehicle which can be additionally compared to the VIN reported by the TCU at the service platform.

As an alternative to the above implementation the service platform may transmit to the computing device the SIM card number of the TCU and or VIN of the vehicle that was previously reported by the TCU. The application program may perform the comparison of some or all of 1 the identifier of the computing device 2 the TCU serial number or identifier 3 the SIM card number of the TCU and 4 the VIN of the vehicle to determine if a match exists. In yet another implementation the TCU may provide the VIN and or SIM card number of the TCU directly to the computing device via a wired or wireless communications link.

In either of the above implementations it may be judged at whether a matched relationship exists between some or all of the 1 the identifier of the computing device 2 the TCU serial number or identifier 3 the SIM card number of the TCU and 4 the VIN of the vehicle. If a matched relationship is judged to exist then the TCU and the application program may be synched at . Synching of the TCU and application may include the exchange of vehicle state information as previously described with reference to for example. At the user may begin using the information system established between the TCU the application program and or the service platform. If a matched relationship is judged not to exist at then the TCU may not be enabled for use at . Where the TCU is not enabled for use synching may not be permitted between the TCU and the application program and vehicle state information may not be transmitted to the application program or to the service platform for delivery to the application program. While initialization has been described in with respect to the service platform a similar approach may be used to initialize third party applications with a TCU via a third party service hosted at a server system.

It will be understood that associations established between TCU identifiers VINs and computing device identifiers may be stored in a database system as part of a user account. Each user account may include one or more TCU identifiers VINs computing device identifiers etc. thereby enabling the service platform to facilitate the delivery of information and or commands between TCUs computing devices or third party services of a particular user. In this manner individual TCUs and individual computing devices including active user sessions may be distinguished from each other within an ecosystem of hundreds thousands millions or more TCUs and or computing devices.

The vehicle state information received from the OBD system at the TCU may include an indication of whether a parking brake of the vehicle is engaged or disengaged. The vehicle may be indicated to be in the park state by the TCU if the parking brake is indicated by the vehicle state information as being engaged. Alternatively or additionally the TCU may infer an indication of whether the vehicle is in a drive state or park state based on GPS and or accelerometer sensor measurements obtained by the TCU. In either example information communicated by the TCU that indicates operating state of the vehicle may be utilized to select either the park mode or the drive mode for purposes of augmenting the functionality of the mobile computing device.

The TCU mobile computing device and or service platform may be responsive to changing vehicle states. For example when or if the vehicle is placed into a drive state by an operator the mobile computing device may respond to incoming calls or text messages with an automated messages. The mobile computing device may also send a text message or other suitable message type to attendees of an upcoming meeting. When or if the vehicle is put in park or the parking brake is engaged by the vehicle s operator the mobile device leaves drive mode and enter park mode .

In at least some implementations data from vehicles may be provided to owners operators or third party users in exchange for the benefit of using a mobile application program such as mobile application program of . Data consumers may use and or sell data stored in database . Aspects of the present disclosure may be advantageous to a driver of a vehicle in areas related to safety family convenience productivity navigation geo gaming efficiency entertainment lifestyle and social networking. Non limiting examples of these applications include 1 an automated parking assistant 2 an automatic crash responder 3 a police speed control notifier 4 integrated roadside assistance support 5 car to home automation doors lights appliances etc. 6 walk up hands free car door lock unlock and 7 turn by turn eyes free navigation. Other applications may include V2V vehicle to vehicle applications between two or more TCUs. Bluetooth 4.0 wireless technology or other suitable wireless protocol for example may enable communications between vehicles in close proximity to one another. Vehicles may also communicate with each other over a local area or wide area network via respective TCUs.

In other use scenarios mobile application programs implementing aspects of the subject matter described herein may be combined with social network data and or integrated with a social networking service such as Facebook . For example a mobile application program may provide a login to a social networking service with which vehicle state information may be shared including vehicle location or other information for example. The service platform and or social networking service may store a relationship between user accounts in each service to enable the mapping of content from the service platform to the social network. Typically social networking services would receive the vehicle state information via an API of the service platform and would associate the vehicle state information with a user account attributed to that vehicle state information within the social networking environment.

In at least some implementations the TCUs described herein may be transferrable between vehicles such as one or more of vehicles and may be suitable for fleet management applications. For example an owner operator or other third party may use any compatible TCU in any vehicle in combination with a user s mobile device while enabling the user s application programs to access and utilize information obtained from that TCU or otherwise function in concert with that TCU. The technology described herein may support the provision of data suitable for providing information at the time of re sale of a vehicle and or may support user based insurance. For example data from a TCU may be stored in database to provide a history of a driver s driving habits. The data in the database relating to the driver may be accessed for the purposes of examining the driver s driving behavior especially as it relates to risk and insurance rates.

Additional aspects of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the preceding figures. In an example use scenario the service platform or third party service may enable retailers or other advertisers to bid on certain on board diagnostic codes so that the retailer s information is presented to the user in the event that the code is reported by the user s vehicle. Related advertisements not shown e.g. in may be displayed on the screen alongside online content for example. Advertising may be location aware using geo location information reported by the TCU and or the geo location of the mobile device. In some examples advertising may be related to the health of the vehicle as obtained from the OBD system.

In another example use scenario a user may choose to transmit on board diagnostic data such as one or more of the diagnostic trouble codes DTC reported by the OBD system to a nearby service garage to obtain an estimate for any necessary repair or service work. A user may authorize service personnel to unlock the vehicle for access when the vehicle is parked and unattended by the user. The service platform and or third party services may automate the payment process using user account information previously obtained from the user.

In yet another example use scenario a user may prepare to leave their residence for work in the morning. The user may for example have a meeting downtown in an hour. A TCU installed on board the vehicle may sense the proximity of the user s mobile device from over a Bluetooth or NFC wireless communications link and may unlock the doors of the vehicle as the user approaches. When the user starts the vehicle and pulls away from the driveway of the residence a mobile application program operating at the mobile computing device may connect to the service platform by API such as API of initiate a command to another computing device e.g. computing device in located at the residence e.g. one or more network enabled appliances of the residence to lock the door of the residence and or to shut off the lights of the residence. For example the service platform or third party service may use the ZigBee protocol suite or any other suitable personal area network to communicate commands to network enabled appliances. In other instances a smart device server located at the residence may lock the door and or turn off the lights when the mobile computing device and or vehicle TCU pulls away from the driveway. It will be appreciated that the reverse approach may be utilized to initiate operations at a vehicle or residence responsive to a mobile computing device carried by the user leaving the vehicle and approaching the residence.

The above described methods and processes may be tied to a computing system including one or more computing devices. In particular the methods and processes described herein may be implemented as one or more applications services application programming interfaces computer libraries and or other suitable computer programs or instruction sets.

The computing devices described herein have been shown in simplified form. It is to be understood that virtually any computer architecture may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure. A computing device or portions thereof may take the form of one or more of a mainframe computer a server computer a computing device residing on board a vehicle a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a home entertainment computer a network computing device a mobile computing device a mobile communication device a gaming device etc.

A logic subsystem may include one or more physical devices configured to execute instructions held in storage subsystem. For example a logic subsystem may be configured to execute that are part of one or more applications services programs routines libraries objects components data structures or other logical constructs. Such instructions may be implemented to perform a task implement a data type transform the state of one or more devices or otherwise arrive at a desired result.

A logic subsystem may include one or more processors that are configured to execute software instructions. Additionally or alternatively the logic subsystem may include one or more hardware or firmware logic machines configured to execute hardware or firmware instructions. Processors of the logic subsystem may be single core or multicore and the programs executed thereon may be configured for parallel or distributed processing. The logic subsystem may optionally include individual components that are distributed throughout two or more devices which may be remotely located and or configured for coordinated processing. One or more aspects of the logic subsystem may be virtualized and executed by remotely accessible networked computing devices configured in a cloud computing configuration.

A storage subsystem may include one or more physical non transitory devices configured to hold data in a data store and or instructions executable by the logic subsystem to implement the herein described methods and processes. When such methods and processes are implemented the state of the storage subsystem may be transformed e.g. to hold different data or other suitable forms of information .

A storage subsystem may include removable media and or built in devices. A storage subsystem may include optical memory devices e.g. CD DVD HD DVD Blu Ray Disc etc. semiconductor memory devices e.g. RAM EPROM EEPROM etc. and or magnetic memory devices e.g. hard disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive MRAM etc. among others. A storage subsystem may include devices with one or more of the following characteristics volatile nonvolatile dynamic static read write read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable and content addressable. In at least some implementations a logic subsystem and a storage subsystem may be integrated into one or more common devices such as an application specific integrated circuit or a system on a chip.

It is to be appreciated that a storage subsystem includes one or more physical non transitory devices. In contrast in at least some implementations and under select operating conditions aspects of the instructions described herein may be propagated in a transitory fashion by a pure signal e.g. an electromagnetic signal an optical signal etc. that is not held by a physical device for at least a finite duration. Furthermore data and or other forms of information pertaining to the present disclosure may be propagated by a pure signal.

The terms module or program may be used to describe an aspect of a computing system that is implemented to perform one or more particular functions. In some cases such a module or program may be instantiated via a logic subsystem executing instructions held by a storage subsystem. It is to be understood that different modules or programs may be instantiated from the same application service code block object library routine API function etc. Likewise the same module or program may be instantiated by different applications services code blocks objects routines APIs functions etc. The terms module or program are meant to encompass individual or groups of executable files data files libraries drivers scripts database records etc.

It is to be appreciated that a service as used herein may be an application program or other suitable instruction set executable across multiple sessions and available to one or more system components programs and or other services. In at least some implementations a service may run on a server or collection of servers responsive to a request from a client.

While the disclosed subject matter is directed to a vehicle based implementations it will be understood that aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be used outside of a vehicle context such as within buildings or on board non moveable machinery. Outside of the vehicle context a TCU may interface with control systems or electronic devices associated with other subjects to be monitored or controlled.

It is to be understood that the configurations and or approaches described herein are exemplary in nature and that these specific embodiments or examples are not to be considered in a limiting sense because numerous variations are possible. The specific routines or methods described herein may represent one or more of any number of processing strategies. As such various acts illustrated may be performed in the sequence illustrated in other sequences in parallel or in some cases omitted. Likewise the order of the above described processes may be changed.

The subject matter of the present disclosure includes all novel and nonobvious combinations and subcombinations of the various processes systems and configurations and other features functions acts and or properties disclosed herein as well as any and all equivalents thereof. It should be understood that the disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive. Variations to the disclosed embodiments that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims now or later presented or the equivalence of such metes and bounds are embraced by the claims.

