---

title: Automated pet door
abstract: An automated pet door system. The system provides a user programmable database and system engine for controlling the passage of selected animals through a portal, such as a door, or screen, or other passage limiting device. The system is permissionable, in that the user may provide a set of dates, times, events, or other instructions, through a user input device to establish a then current operating envelope for each of one or more selected animals. A unique identification tag, which may use active radio frequency identification tag techniques, provides identity information for each candidate animal. Multiple sensor inputs, providing information such as door position, proximity of animals to the door, and direction and velocity of animals, are provided as inputs to a decision engine, which evaluates sensor inputs over time, before determining whether to open or close the pet door.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854215&OS=08854215&RS=08854215
owner: 
number: 08854215
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140314
---
This invention claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 790 932 filed on Mar. 15 2013 entitled AUTOMATED PET DOOR the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to systems for control of passage through portals to structures and more particularly to novel methods and systems for the movement of pets to and from secure enclosures such as building structures.

In recent years the computerized management of access to and from buildings has become routine in industry and government. However many of the systems utilized for such applications require that a user execute or pass a security step of one sort or another such as card presentation to a card reader password entry or thumb print or retina scan or the like. However the requirements of many of such systems are not practically transferable for use with pets. Yet with increasingly valuable contents in homes or other building structures and with increasingly aggressive methods attempted by thieves to gain access to such valuable contents it would be advantageous if a highly pet specific yet highly secure system were to become available for use especially for home owners concerned about the potential security risks inherent in prior art pet entry systems. Consequently there have been various attempts to develop security devices and methods for implementation of the same for controlling passage of pets though doors into and out of secure areas such as homes apartments or other structures. However there remains a need for an improved system for controlling access by pet through a portal to a building structure and to such a system that further includes controls that minimize or virtually eliminate the possibility that a human intruder might gain access to the structure through such portal particularly as may be applied to high value custom homes. Further it would be advantageous if such a product made minding a pet more convenient and routine access procedures required a minimum amount of time for intervention. And it would be even more convenient if such a product enabled remote access to the system for changing permissions as regards pet access to a structure.

A novel system that provides a user programmable database controlling the passage of selected animals through a portal such as a door or screen or other passage limiting device has been developed. In various embodiments the system may be considered permissionable in that the user may provide a set of dates times events or other instructions to a user input device to set access instructions for one or more selected animals. In an embodiment an access structure such as a pet door in a home defines a portal through which one or more selected animals may pass. In an embodiment the access structure such as the just mentioned pet door may have one or more field limiting elements such as a moveable door that may be placed a in an open condition wherein selected animals may pass through the portal or b in a closed condition wherein selected animals cannot pass through the portal. In various embodiments an identification tag for candidate animals is provided. In an embodiment such identification tag may provide unique identity information for a candidate animal. In various embodiments multiple candidate animals may have identification tags assigned in the system such as multiple dogs at a selected location or a dog and a cat at a particular location.

In an embodiment the novel system includes a programmable database that establishes operating envelope definitions. The operating envelope definitions include user programmable settings that a user may set up for one or more individually selected animals or for a group of animals generally. In various embodiments a plurality of sensors S in a series of sensors Sthrough S where N is a positive integer are provided. In an embodiment the sensors S provide an output signal at a sensor blink rate to produce from various sensor time indexed output data. The system includes a system engine that may be established by programming on a general purpose computer or by other methods as will be known to those of skill in the art. The system engine a acquires data from the identification tag s b acquires the time indexed output data from the sensors S and c compares the time indexed output data from the sensors S with the then current programmed operating envelope definitions. The system engine then determines whether or not the time indexed output data from each of the sensors S is 1 acceptable and is promoted to an action indicator state result or 2 is unacceptable and is demoted to an inaction indicator state result. Such evaluation is determined over a predetermined plurality of times to compile an aggregate measurement result of the sensor data to i determine whether the data just evaluated provides an action indicator state result or whether the sensor data just evaluated is determined to provide an inaction indicator state result. Based on the aggregate measurement of results the system engine decides whether or not to classify a candidate animal as a selected animal for passage through the portal. If a candidate animal is determined to be a selected animal then the system engine instructs the one or more field limiting elements to be placed in an open condition to allow passage of a selected animal therethrough. In an embodiment the system engine directs a motor controller to energize a door motor which opens or closes the portal.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual apparatus that may be constructed to provide different embodiments for a system for controlling access to portals in building structures or to various configurations for components thereof or to methods for operation thereof. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the components of an embodiment for a useful system for controlling access of animals to structures. However various other components or elements in components for such systems or for assembly and use of the same may be utilized in order to provide an automated pet door and automated programmable control system according to the concepts disclosed herein.

Attention is directed to which provides a schematic illustration of the various elements of a system that provides for the automation of a pet door . Components of the system include use of a unique pet tag which in an embodiment may be a radio frequency identification tag. In an embodiment such radio frequency identification RFID tag may be an active RFID tag which provides reporting capability not just response to interrogation capability as would be the case with a passive RFID tag. In any event the pet door defines a portal with clear space open portal dimensions as further noted by reference arrows seen in through which one or more animals may pass. In an embodiment as shown in the portal may be rectangular in shape.

As seen in in embodiment the door is provided with door motor for opening and closing the door . Door may be placed in an open position and remain open or may temporarily open and then close after a delay based on either timing or input from sensors or both. The door may remain closed based on timing or input from sensors or both. Returning to in an embodiment at least one sensor S is provided at or near door . In an embodiment a plurality of sensors S are provided. For example in door shown in two ultrasonic egress sensors are provided which sensors are designated as Sensor Number 5 in . uses a 2 designation to indicate that two sensors are provided. Also provided in door in is a passive infrared egress sensor which sensor is designated as Sensor Number 4 in .

As seen in an embodiment at least one sensor S is provided at or near door . In an embodiment a plurality of sensors S are provided. For example in door shown in two ultrasonic ingress sensors are provided which sensors are designated as Sensor Number 3 in . uses a 2 designation to indicate that two sensors are provided. Also provided in door in is a passive infrared ingress sensor which sensor is designated as Sensor Number 2 in . Further a plurality of door position sensors are provided these door position sensors provide information to the system engine as to the actual position of door or in other embodiments the actual position of some other field limiting element such as a screen or gate .

Attention is directed to where a schematic illustration of an embodiment for an automated pet door system is provided showing the various elements of a system engine and some inputs and outputs to the system engine . In an embodiment the system engine may include a clock for establishing time of data acquisition from one or more sensors S in a sensor S package S. An input output interface server receives input from and provides output to one or more user interface devices or systems that may be utilized in a user interface package U. A sensor processor receives data from one or more sensors in a selected sensor package S. Data from sensor processor is directed to a decision engine which in an embodiment may evaluate data along a series of times T such as T 0 T 1 T 2 etc as further explained below in the discussion of logic shown in in order to provide a robust fault tolerant decision engine . In an embodiment the decision engine may check a user programmable tag schedule data to investigate then current settings with regard to a unique pet tag as well as to check other settings in a settings database some of which settings may be user programmable and some of which settings may be factory preset with or without user override capability as may be selected in various embodiments. In an embodiment sensor inputs from sensor package Smay be provided by sensor processor to a log engine and selected inputs may be logged in a record log .

As also shown in near door radio signal strength sensors may be provided to receive radio communications from pet tag . Also door position sensors may provide data on the position of door Besides the motor and other physical aspects of the door such sensors and logic based components are important components of system .

Based on logic in the decision engine which logic may be user programmable in various embodiments the decision engine in the system engine determines whether or not to move the pet door to an open position O or to keep the pet door in a closed position C. Thus based on a combination of tag schedule data the data in settings database and input from the sensor package S the automated pet door is controlled.

Turning now to a schematic illustration for an embodiment for robust sensor processor logic is provided. Data from the sensor package Sis provided from at least one and in many embodiments from a plurality of sensors S. Such data is evaluated at a plurality of times T in a sequence of times from T 0 T 1 T 2 to T N where N is a selected number of sample times. Based on evaluation of inputs during a selected set of discrete times T inputs are graded by the sensor processor and the input is promoted see promote arrow or demoted see demote arrow based on the determination by the sensor processor as to validity of a particular input from the sensor package S. As an example the promotion or demotion of data for or against door opening is sent to the decision engine where if resulting from door open promotion received from the sensor processor the decision engine checks the data base to determine whether or not an animal is authorized at that time to enter or leave the structure thru portal . For example a passive infrared ingress sensor may provide a signal when sensing that an animal is near a door . Similarly a radio signal strength sensor RSSI may provide a MAX indication i.e. that of maximum signal strength of the signal from the pet tag and thus indicating that animal is near the sensor. Alternately the RSSI sensor may provide a reading which indicates decreasing signal strength over a series of times T which indicates that the animal is moving away from sensor and thus away from door . An ultrasound sensor may be provided which may include spacial data such as whether an animal is located to the left or to the right and if so how far from the ultrasound sensor and thus evaluate how far the animal is from the door . Similarly data from the ultrasound sensor at various times T may provide data with a negative change in distance or with a positive change in distance from ultrasound sensor and indicate that an animal is increasingly closer to or distant from pet door . In the event the sensor processor determines that a particular sensor S is inoperative or is not providing valid data then the failure may be logged and reported to the I O interface server for reporting to user via a device or system in the user interface package U.

As also depicted in a user interface package Umay include a variety of devices and or systems. For example a user may access the system engine via a web user interface . Or a user may utilize a mobile user interface such as a mobile phone or other hand held device such as an I Pad or other tablet computing device. In an embodiment the automated pet door system may be coupled with a home automation system. A home automation system may include TCP IP communications with the system engine . Or a home automation system may include serial input output to the system engine . And provisions may be included for alternate additional or auxiliary inputs and or .

In summary a system for controlling passage of selected animals through a portal is provided. The system includes providing an access structure such as a pet door that defines a portal through which one or more selected animals may pass. The access structure includes one or more field limiting elements such as a solid door that may be placed a in an open condition O wherein said selected animals can pass through the portal or b in a closed condition C wherein said selected animals cannot pass through the portal. To use the system an identification pet tag for a candidate animal is provided. The identification pet tag provides identity information for the candidate animal . A programmable settings database is provided which database includes operating envelope definitions E. The operating envelope definitions E include user programmable settings for selected animals . At least one sensor S and in an embodiment a plurality of sensors S in a series of sensors Sthrough S where N is a positive integer are provided in a sensor package S. Each of the selected sensors S provide an output signal at a sensor blink rate to produce from each sensor S time indexed output data. A system engine is provided. The system engine a acquires data from the identification pet tag b acquires the time indexed output data from selected sensors S and c compares the time indexed output data from the sensors S with said operating envelope definitions E and determines whether or not the time indexed output data from each of the S is 1 acceptable and thus is promoted to an action indicator state result that is promoted toward a decision to move or keep a door in a door open O position or 2 is unacceptable and is demoted to an inaction indicator state result that is demoted toward a door closed position result. The decisions are evaluate over a predetermined plurality of times to determine an aggregate measurement result of 1 identification tag data and 2 sensor S data as regards data i determined to provide action indicator state results e.g. valid data in the door open O direction and ii determined to provide inaction indicator state results e.g. invalid data or data indicating a door closed C direction . Based on the aggregate measurement result from the sensor processor the decision engine evaluates schedule data authorizations for a particular animal and other constraints to determine whether or not to classify a candidate animal as a selected animal for passage through the portal and instructs the one or more field limiting elements such as solid door to be placed in an open condition to allow passage of a selected animal therethrough.

In various embodiments the number of sensors S in a sensor package Smay include at least three sensors. In an embodiment at least one of the sensors in said plurality of sensors S is a passive infrared sensor such passive infrared sensor may be a passive infrared ingress sensor or a passive infrared egress sensor . Further in various embodiments identification tags may be provided as an active radio frequency identification tag. In various embodiments an active radio frequency signal strength sensor may be provided. In various embodiments one or more ultrasonic ingress sensors may be provided. In various embodiments one or more ultrasonic egress sensors may be provided. In various embodiments the ultrasonic sensors or may provide distance measurement sensing capability. In an embodiment at least one ultrasound sensor may be used as a boundary measurement sensor.

As illustrated in the system may include a sensor processor that evaluates data from sensors S for a predetermined plurality of times before the decision engine determines whether and or how to instruct the motor controller to direct the door motor in order to reposition or maintain the position of one or more field limiting elements such as solid door . As shown in the predetermined plurality of times sampled may be three times or more. More generally each order or instruction from the sensor processor is related to multiple data samples from sensors S from different time intervals. In various embodiments a number of sensor inputs are collected and evaluated at regular intervals. When the result of a first evaluation at time T 0 satisfies a predetermined set of criteria an estimation of when to issue a door open command is generated. If progressive conditions for opening the door are not met at subsequent sample times and evaluation intervals T 1 T 2 etc. the decision to open the door is delayed or cancelled . Conversely when progressive conditions are satisfied then the command to open the door is given. Such technique provides an Nth order approximation based on the number of sample times N since the sensors S provide data regarding the state of the system and describe such state over time. Since any description may not ever be completely accurate e.g. a sensor may be inoperative or providing inaccurate data the logic for sensor processor described herein provides an excellent numeric description which is at least a good approximation of the then current system state. Each new piece of data form sensors S adds to the order description accuracy making the approximation more accurate in terms of describing the state of system . Thus the technique described herein is a beneficial advance in the state of the art in devices for regulating passage of animals into and out of structures.

In various embodiments for system the identification tag may include individually separate and distinct identification data for each candidate animal . In various embodiments for the use of system each candidate animal may be assigned a separate and unique identification tag .

In various embodiments for system a user interface server may be provided. The I O interface server provides access the system engine from one or more devices or systems in a user interface package U so that the user may provide input of permissible settings to the tag schedule data or to the settings database to establish a then current operating envelope E set of data and instructions as regards a particular identification tag . In various embodiments separate operating envelops E E E etc. may be established for each one of a set of individual identification tags and so on as may be worn by different animals and respectively.

In various embodiments the just described permissible settings may include one or more of a entry lockout time schedule b exit lockout time schedule c time delay period required before opening of the field limiting element s such as door d an allowable time period for an opening of the field limiting element s such as door and e any time delay period required before closing of the field limiting element s such as door . In various embodiments the permissible settings may include one or more of a an identification tag lockout and or b an identification tag lock in. Thus a particular animal or a selected one in a plurality of animals as just noted above may be prevented from leaving a building structure or prevented from entering a building structure according to a schedule programmed into the system engine by a user. In various embodiments the user interface package Umay provide access to the system engine through an I O interface server for providing access to a user for input of direct commands. For example a lockout reset capability i.e. an override trigger mechanism may be provided to a user wherein a user may direct the system engine to reset and ignore a prior lockout override instruction. In such event the user may evaluate and select a further set of programmable override instructions. For example a user may be provided with a selectable set of programmable override instructions including a a force door open instruction and or b a force door closed instruction. Or in an embodiment the auxiliary inputs and may provide access for external customer supplied sensors. For example a rain sensor could trigger an action in the door to never let the door open for exit of animal when a rain sensor S provides a door close instruction. Similarly a simple maid wall switch could be provided which could be turned on when the maid arrives which may be programmed to not let an animal pet inside the structure when so instructed. Or in an embodiment a motion sensor or a camera sensor may provide data to the system engine .

In various embodiments the system engine may include computer memory sufficient to store at least one user accessible file. In an embodiment such computer memory may be located in the interface server . In an embodiment the interface server may be configured to receive permissible setting data from a user. In an embodiment the interface server may be configured to receive input from one or more of a an in home touch screen interface that may be provided by way of an auxiliary input or b a home automation computer or or c a mobile computing device .

In various embodiment system may be set up with a then current operating envelope E that includes definitions for one or more of a acceptable candidate animal locations b direction of movement of animal and c velocity of animal . In an embodiment a candidate animal may be prevented from passing through one or more field limiting elements such as door if any one of location of animal direction of movement of animal or velocity of animal falls outside of the then current operating envelope E for a particular animal .

In various embodiments a system may include sensors S that may provide a perimeter warning such as by way of radio signal strength measurement or ultrasound measurement infrared beam technique or other sensor device. In an embodiment when the sensor processor and or decision engine determines that data constitutes an irregular or alarm condition the field limiting elements such as door may be set to a closed and remain closed condition. In various embodiments sensors such as radio signal strength indication sensor may provide data sufficient for computation by the system engine of the location of a candidate animal having an identification tag . In an embodiment the system may include a plurality of sensors S with output data sufficient for computation by the system engine of the velocity and or the direction of movement of a candidate animal having an identification tag .

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for providing a system for providing automated pet doors and permissionable programmable instructions for such doors. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various elements and components described for use in assembly of the system and for practice of the methods s described herein may have been described as multiple discrete items in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding such aspects and details. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such items or sequence of operations are necessarily order dependent or that it is imperative to fully complete one step before starting another. For example the choice of how to configure a sensor or where to mount a sensor or how to define an operating envelope of acceptable traverse rates and or traverse paths for a candidate animal may be different as regards configuration and installation particulars amongst various animal types or geographic locations within the scope and coverage of the claims herein below. Further different users may want the ability to program widely different operating envelopes for their animals as compared to access schedules or event schedules that may be desired by other users. Further certain details of an embodiment illustrated may not need to be provided or performed in the precise or exact order of presentation herein. And in different embodiments one or more items may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other items may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase an embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

In view of the foregoing it will be appreciated that the invention overcomes the long standing need for a method and programmable system for setting permissions for passage of an animal through a portal. Further the number and types of sensors also provide input for determining whether or not a particular animal should be allowed access through a portal such as a pet door. And using unique identification tags the system easily and correctly authenticates a candidate animal before selecting such animal for passage through a portal such as a pet door. Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

