---

title: Emergency monitoring of tagged objects
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for remote monitoring of tagged physical objects in an emergency. A user may set up a series of beacons at a facility of the user, such as an office or hospital. The beacons may connect to tag devices as the devices enter a coverage area for the wireless beacons or upon request by a service provider server in an emergency situation. The beacons communicate distance information regarding the tag devices and associated physical objects to a service provider server. The service provider server may determine the location of a physical object and provides the location to the user or to emergency personnel. In an emergency, the service provider server may provide a notification to a specific subset of users, in which the notification includes the location of a physical object of interest to the subset of users because of the emergency condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536407&OS=09536407&RS=09536407
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09536407
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
The present application generally relates to remote location and monitoring of physical objects and more specifically to providing beacons throughout a location that may connect to one or more tag devices associated with various objects in order to locate and monitor those objects.

In an emergency situation finding and monitoring certain physical objects becomes increasingly important. For example in an earthquake people may be injured increasing the need to find a first aid kit or other piece of emergency equipment. However the very conditions brought on by the emergency e.g. dust debris smoke etc. can make finding such objects more difficult. The ability of quickly locating such emergency equipment for use by those present in the emergency whether by emergency responders bystanders or victims of the emergency may be a matter of life and death.

Additionally situations may arise in which certain key items such as a computer containing highly sensitive information or a prototype device under development in a costly research and development program should be monitored in the event of an emergency. For example if a fire breaks out in part of a building there may be time to ensure that irreplaceable items are safely removed from the building.

However many surveillance and tracking systems can cost tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of dollars to deploy and maintain on a large scale. Accordingly current systems for locating and monitoring physical objects within a facility are not satisfactory in all respects.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by reference to the following detailed description. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures. However such repetition of reference numerals to identify similar elements is for ease of explanation and should not be construed as limiting the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may enable a user of an associated service to monitor a plurality of physical objects that are tagged with tag devices in the event of an emergency. The physical objects may be monitored to detect their presence within a facility or within a specific portion of the facility and or their location within the facility.

A user such as a business or corporation a security company a homeowner a caretaker or a guardian of another individual or individuals may set up one or more wireless beacons throughout a location in which various physical objects are present. These physical objects can be any item or collection of items that are considered important enough to a user to merit monitoring. For example such physical objects may include a safe a file cabinet a file folder a document a computer a smartphone a prototype a piece of equipment a person or an animal. Short range wireless beacons may be established throughout a facility such as an office building a factory a shopping center a stadium a hotel etc. The wireless beacons utilize short range wireless communications to detect a tag device or simply a tag on possessed by or attached to the physical object or to another physical object likely to be associated with the physical object to be monitored. The tag device may communicate with one or more wireless beacons.

One or more of these beacons may be set up at a location to communicate with various tag devices or tags to detect proximity to the beacon or beacons. In some embodiments in which a tag device is embedded or incorporated into a user device the beacons may communicate with the tag device to inform certain users of check in services through their user devices. In some embodiments the beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a server entity to complete transactions including check in services and to provide information that is pertinent to the location.

The beacons may employ one or more wireless communication modes including Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communications provided by BLE interfaces included in the beacons. The beacons emit a BLE signal receivable by the tag device or devices. The communications may include an identifier of the originating beacon an identifier for the tag device a service user and or a service provider identifier offering monitoring and or check in services through the wireless beacons. The tag device may be set up to passively monitor for BLE communications. When the tag device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both the tag device may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the tag device to communicate with the beacon or beacons or with a service provider s server through the beacons or through another communication channel. For example in the event of an emergency a beacon may request that tag devices within range of the beacon self identify to indicate their presence. The tag devices may respond with a communication that includes an identifier of the tag device.

The beacons may use a received signal strength indicator RSSI which is a measurement of the power in a received communication or signal from the tag device or devices. An individual beacon may use the RSSI to calculate the distance between the beacon and a responding tag device and this calculated distance may be used to represent the distance between the beacon and the physical object to be tracked or monitored i.e. the physical object to which the tag device is attached or in which the tag device is included. When multiple beacons are present within a facility and within a limited communication range of the beacon multiple distances may be obtained. When the locations or the relative locations of the beacons are known these multiple distances may be used to calculate a location of the tag device and thereby a location of the physical object to monitored. In many instances herein reference is made to identifying the location of the physical object or to monitoring the physical object. As indicated the location of the physical object is determined by the location of the tag device associated with the physical object. By monitoring a location of the tag device the physical object is effectively monitored.

The beacons may be connected to a networked device at the facility or in another location. For example a set of beacons may be positioned within and or around a factory and connected to a network device within the factory in an adjacent building or in another location. The beacons may include network functionality to communicate with other devices and or servers including a user device of the service user and a service provider server. By providing multiple distances between a set of beacons and a particular tag device to the service provider server the service provider server may calculate the location of the tag device.

In some embodiments a user may limit the range of the beacon to a distance within the facility and spread multiple wireless beacons throughout the location. Thus each wireless beacon may correspond to an area of the facility e.g. an office a conference room a wing a kitchen a storage room a restroom a lobby a stairway an entrance an exit etc. . Therefore when a connection is established between the tag device and one of the wireless beacons a location for the tag device and its associated physical object may be determined based on the connection and knowledge of where the particular wireless beacon forming the connection with the tag device is located within the facility. Using the wireless beacons and the tag device information may be determined by monitoring the device s presence and or movement throughout the location based on the connections the device makes with the wireless beacons.

The wireless beacons may also provide assistance in monitoring one or more tagged physical objects during and after an emergency. Examples of such an emergency may include an earthquake a fire an intentional or accidental explosion a terrorist attack a structural failure etc. In certain circumstances a service provider server may receive a notification of such an emergency and provide instructions to the beacons to enable them to monitor the locations and or movements of tagged physical objects. The wireless beacons may also be connected to smoke alarms fire sprinklers intercoms automated locks etc. which may provide information indicating an emergency condition and thereby prompting the wireless beacons to monitor the locations and movements of the physical objects.

When an emergency or a warning of an impending emergency is received the beacons may communicate with the tag devices to determine their respective locations. By comparing the locations of the tagged physical objects with either previously acquired locations or subsequently acquired locations the service provider server may determine whether or not a particular physical object is present and whether or not the particular physical object has moved or whether or not the particular physical object is moving. The service provider server may communicate with one or more user devices to provide one or more users with information regarding the locations of the tagged physical objects. In some embodiments the service provider server may provide different information to different users according to their needs for specific information. For example a service user located at a corporate headquarters may be provided with information describing locations of the tagged physical objects when an emergency occurs at one of the corporation s offices. As another example a service user that is present in the facility may be provided with information describing some of the tagged physical objects like a particular computer known to contain highly sensitive information or a fire escape or first aid kit. As long as the computer the fire escape and the first aid kit are tagged with a tag device each of these physical objects may be located within the facility and their respective locations may be provided to service users.

System includes a user device associated with a user a first tag device A a second tag device B a first beacon A a second beacon B and a service provider server in communication over a network . The user may be a person such as a service provider an office manager a facilities manager a supervisor an employee a caretaker a student a resident at a home etc. and may utilize the user device to connect to one or both of the beacons A and B referred to collectively as beacons and to the service provider server .

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with beacons and or service provider server . For example the user device may be implemented as a smartphone laptop computer a tablet computing device a wearable computer such as a wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources or eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data.

As illustrated the user device includes a communication module a check in application a database and a monitoring application and may include other applications . In the illustrated embodiment the communication module provides more than one mode of communication. For example when the user device is within range of the beacons the communication module may transmit wireless communications to either or both of the beacons using a first mode of communication such as Bluetooth Low Energy BLE . For example the communication module of user device or one of the tag devices A and B may alternatively communicate with beacons using another mode e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth radio infrared LTE Direct or other connection . The communication module may also enable communication between the network using a second mode of communication such as a Wi Fi or cellular connection or a wired connection.

Check in application may be used by user of user device to establish a connection with the beacons including a check in using service provider server or another device server. Check in application may correspond to a specific application utilized by user device in connection with the service provider server to complete a check in for a location corresponding to the locations of the beacons . The check in with service provider server may correspond to a process to log in to a user account of user with service provider server . In other embodiments the check in may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or user device . The check in may be completed over network with service provider server . In such embodiments check in application may correspond more generally to a browser application configured to communicate with service provider server .

The user device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application other applications and or a monitoring application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Identifiers stored in the database may be used by an emergency location service provider such as service provider server to associate user device with a particular account maintained by the provider. Database may include user device tokens and or encryption keys including an encryption key of the beacons and or service provider server . Database may include identifying information for tokens enabling check in application to identify the beacons and or service provider server when receiving a corresponding check in token.

Database may further include information corresponding to user including vital statistics messages or other information which may be transmitted to service provider server . Information from database may be utilized by service provider server in conditions emergencies and or situations that may arrive at a location that includes the beacons . Information received from service provider server may also be stored to database including messages from other users alerts regarding tagged physical objects location statistic information regarding the tagged physical objects and or other users and or information for the location corresponding to the beacons e.g. a map floor plan layout etc. of the facility containing the beacons .

The monitoring application may be executed to provide an interface whereby user may monitor the location present and or movement of tagged physical objects and or other users. Thus monitoring application may receive information from service provider server about tagged physical objects e.g. computers containing sensitive information fire extinguishers safes first aid kits etc. currently at a location with the facility including the beacons . For example user may utilize monitoring application to view a building an area and or room that the tagged physical object is located in by virtue of the connection between a tag device associated with the physical object and wireless beacons in the area. In an emergency situation the user may be informed of the location of such tagged physical objects and may be alerted of the movement of any tagged physical objects. Service provider server may also track the locations and movements of tagged physical objects in an emergency and update user of the movement throughout the facility using monitoring application .

In some embodiments as part of the process of receiving check in information from the check in application of the user device the beacons A and B may each determine a distance to the user device and provide data representing that physical distance to the service provider server . The additional information may be routed to user device and or another user device of another user e.g. the emergency personnel etc. and may be overlaid on a map or representation of the facility along with the locations of one or more tagged physical objects thereby enabling the user to user the user device to locate the tagged physical objects using the monitoring application . In other embodiments the determination of a distance between each of the beacons and the user device may not be part of a check in process. In those other embodiments the determination of distances may be performed without any affirmative action on the part of the user .

Two tag devices A and B are also depicted in the system of . Many more tag devices may be included in other embodiments. The tag devices A and B collectively referred to as tag devices may be simpler and smaller devices than the user device and may include fewer components and provide fewer features. As such the tag devices may be more cheaply deployed to facilitate the locating and monitoring of many different physical objects that may be of importance during an emergency situation. Tag devices may be attached fixedly or releasably to a physical object or included within the physical object. The tag devices may each include one or more microprocessors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable media to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. As shown the tag devices further include a communication module and a check in client .

As illustrated herein the tag devices like the user device are in communication with the beacons through a wireless communication channel. In some embodiments this wireless communication channel is a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE channel. In such embodiments the communication module may be a BLE interface device. Because implementations of Bluetooth Low Energy may consume very little power the tag devices may utilize a battery as a power source. Thus the communication modules of the tag devices may provide for communication according to the BLE specification or according to another specification in other embodiments. The tag devices may also be configured to communicate wireless according to other modes in some embodiments so that other wireless communication channels may be implemented by the communication module .

The tag devices may enable the service provider server to monitor the locations and or movements of physical objects tagged with the tag devices . In an emergency situation the importance of locating specific physical objects including people may increase significantly. For example while some employees may not be concerned with the location of a fire extinguisher on a day to day basis in the event of a fire the importance of locating the fire extinguisher becomes immediately apparent. Additionally the conditions of an emergency or brought on by the emergency may increase the difficulty of finding specific physical objects. By attaching the tag devices to specific physical objects those objects may be found despite the increased difficulty such as decreased visibility due to dust smoke or a power outage. For example if an earthquake or tornado moves items within a building or fully or partially collapses or destroys the building the tag devices may provide information to find the physical objects after the emergency has passed. In an ongoing emergency during a flood for example the tag devices may be used to locate physical objects to better secure them or take them to a safer location.

The tag devices may correspond to a small processing device and or tag that may be included in or attached to nearly any physical object. Such tagged objects may include a safe a file cabinet a file folder a painting a work of sculpture a fire extinguisher a first aid kit a defibrillator or other piece of emergency equipment. In an emergency situation a user may want to locate certain physical objects due to their inherent value or due to valuable contents. In some embodiments one of the tag devices may be attached to a watch wallet necklace clothing item admission bracelet or other wearable piece and configured to establish a communication with beacons in order to monitor a movement or a presence location of a person having the item thereon. For example during an emergency a hospital may use the tag devices to ensure that all of the patients are evacuated from a particular building or portion of a building. In other words the hospital personnel may use the tag devices to determine whether any patients are still in the building or portion thereof.

Although one user device is shown in a plurality of user devices may function similarly and the service provider server may provide location presence and or movement information regarding the tag devices to multiple users such as emergency personnel and a facilities manager.

The check in client may be used by the tag devices to establish a connection with one or more of the beacons and thereby perform a check in using service provider server or another device server. The check in with service provider server may enable the logging in and the cataloging of the physical objects tagged with one of the tag devices . The check in may be completed over network with service provider server . The check in client may facilitate automatic responses to requests from the beacons . For example when an emergency occurs the beacons may request a response for any tag devices within range. The check in client may automatically respond with a message or signal including information such as a tag device identifier. The check in client may be configured in some embodiments to broadcast a message or signal periodically to the beacons to indicate the presence of the tag device. This message or signal may be used by the beacons to obtain distance information to send to the service provider server .

Through the communications modules the check in clients may receive short range wireless communications from beacons at a location and transmit information to beacons including check in information for a check in process with service provider server . The beacons may use a received signal strength indicator RSSI from a signal transmitted by the communication modules of the tag devices . In some embodiments another mode of distance estimation based on the signals from the tag devices may be implemented by the beacons . The calculated distance may be used to represent the distance between a particular beacon and the physical object to be tracked or monitored. As is discussed in further detail elsewhere in this disclosure this information may then be communicated by the beacons to the service provider server which to determine a location of each of the tag devices relative to the beacons based on the signals received by the beacons . For example to triangulate the position of the tag device A and thereby the location of the objected tagged therewith within a facility the beacons may provide the service provider server with distances from each of the beacons to the tag device A. Similarly the beacons may use a received signal strength indicator RSSI from a signal transmitted by the communication module of the user device to estimate a location of the user device relative to the beacons . The beacons may use a check in facilitator which is configured to exchange information with the check in client and to relay check in information to the service provider server over the network .

In the case of the user device the distances between the beacons and the user device may be used to represent the location of the user . The check in application may transmit information to beacons when user is within range of the beacons enabling service provider server to triangulate the position of user within the facility when the service provider server is provided with distances from each of the beacons to the user device .

As illustrated the tag devices also include the check in client . In some embodiments the check in client of the tag devices may provide fewer features than the check in application of the user device . The check in client of the tag devices may be provided on the tag devices as an embedded application or as a hardware module configured to interact with the beacons to facilitate the exchange of signals by which a distance of a tag device may be determined. The tag devices which may not include integrated input mechanisms are able to communicate with the beacons without affirmative user input. Locations of the tag devices may be calculated or estimated based on the distance between the specific tag device and the beacons . When a physical object has been associated with the tag device A the service provider server may provide the location of the tag device A to the user as the location of the physical object tagged with the tag device A after checking in the tag device A or otherwise updating its location information.

Beacons may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by check in client or check in application provided by either one of the tag devices or the user device as detailed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 292 374 entitled Remote Monitoring of Users at a Home Location filed May 30 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Once a connection is established with beacons the tag devices may be checked in with the service provider server which may add the identifier of the tag devices into a database of checked in devices. When the service provider server has a database of tag devices associated with specific physical objects the service provider server may provide a listing of the corresponding physical objects to the user . In some embodiments the service provider server provides an abbreviated listing of physical objects to the user based on the credentials and or an access level of the user . The listing of physical objects may include only physical objects determined to be relevant or useful to the user because of the specific emergency condition.

In some embodiments the check in application of the user device may also receive information from beacons such as emergency information emergency personnel instructions communications or messages from another user maps of a location etc. In other embodiments user device may be a small device attached to a wearable item of a person animal and check in application may only provide an identifier check in information and or location information to beacons .

As described herein the beacons each include a communication module that is configured to communicate with the tag devices in a first mode of communication and with the service provider server in another mode of communication. The beacons may include a check in facilitator and may further include other applications a database and other features such as a primary power supply and a secondary or backup power supply. The check in facilitator may receive check in information from the check in clients on the tag devices and in some embodiments from the check in application of the user device . The check in facilitator may communicate check in information through the network to the service provider server . In order to maintain the ability to locate and track the tag devices in an emergency the beacons may be able to switch to the secondary power supply without lapse in service. For example the beacons may be connected to a building power supply such as an outlet and also include an internal battery that may provide power in the event that the building s power supply goes down to continue service during the emergency. Because the tag devices and the user device may also include internal batteries the beacons may continue to communicate with the tag devices and or the user device in such an emergency.

Service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide check in and monitoring services on behalf of a user. In this regard service provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or beacons to receive check in or location information and monitor movement and other information for a person animal at a location. In one example service provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. In other embodiments service provider server may be maintained by or include other service providers. The service provider server may be located within the facility in which physical objects are located in some embodiments. In other embodiments the service provider server may be located remotely from the facility. This may be advantageous in the event that an emergency at a given location may disable an on site service provider server .

Service provider server of includes a location monitoring application a notification application other applications a database and a communication module . Location monitoring application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments service provider server may include additional or different software.

Location monitoring application may process and or complete a check in between enabled devices and beacons e.g. between user device or the tags and beacons . Thus location monitoring application may correspond to the server side application of service provider server configured to receive check in information and complete a check in request. The check in request may include login information for a user account in database and thus complete the check in by verifying the account information.

A check in process as described herein with respect to the tag devices may be different than a check in process of a user device . For example as part of checking in the user device the check in information may include an identifier or other account information for a user payment account set up with service provider server . To check in the tag devices the location monitoring application may receive other information identifying the physical object associated with the tag device e.g. a safe a file cabinet a computer a piece of equipment a first aid kit a fire extinguisher a fire escape a water shutoff an electrical shutoff a gas shutoff the user or another person . As previously discussed other information may be provided to service provider server including a notification that the tag device or user device is within range to be detected by beacons . This information may be provided without performing a check in process.

Once the information is received from beacons indicating a position or area within a location where an entity having an attached device is located location monitoring application may determine additional data based on the location information. For example movement of one or both of the tag devices A and B may be tracked through a location by monitoring which wireless beacons e.g. beacons that the device has and or is connected to and or by the distances to those beacons of the beacons with which it can connect. A pattern of movement may therefore be deduced by the location monitoring application .

The service provider server may further include a notification application that can communicate with the location monitoring application . The notification application may receive notifications and also send notifications. For example the notification application may receive data including a notification from an emergency notification service indicating that an emergency is occurring or may soon occur at a specific facility. The notification application may then direct or request that the location monitoring application determine the location of tagged physical objects and or user devices within or near the facility. The location monitoring application may then request or direct that the beacons within the facility update their check in information or other information from which presence and or distance may be obtained. This may be done by requesting that tag devices and the user device send or resend a communication. If the beacons include a storage device having pre emergency information stored therein the beacons may provide this information to the location monitoring application at the request of the notification service . In other embodiments the notification service may provide notification information to the location monitoring application which may then issue requests for new information and or requests for previously obtained saved information.

The service provider server may be in communication with various sources that may provide notice or advances information regarding an emergency situation. For example the notification application may be in communication through the network with an emergency notification service such as a weather service a tsunami warning system an earthquake warning system etc. In some embodiments the notification application may determine an emergency is occurring based on a device attached to beacons such as a smoke alarm or fire sprinkler. In other embodiments the emergency notification service may be provided by the smoke alarm burglar alarm fire sprinkler or another alarm configured to communicate with the beacons in order to communicate with the service provider server . In other embodiments these and other warning devices may be configured to communicate with the service provider server without employing the beacons as intermediaries. Additionally in some embodiments the beacons may be programmed to respond automatically upon receipt of warning information from a warning system or device by sending the saved information to the service provider server and by requesting new information from the tag devices and or user devices and providing this to the service provider server as well. In such embodiments a notification application may be operating on the beacons .

In other embodiments notification application may also be alerted to the emergency by another entity such as emergency personnel or a facilities manager. When the service provider server receives an emergency notification at the notification application the location monitoring application may request information from beacons of all devices e.g. tag devices and the user device in communication with the beacons within the facility being monitored so that the party or parties receiving the location information may be able to locate the physical objects or people corresponding to those devices.

In some embodiments the request by the location monitoring application may be a request for updated information. In such embodiments the database may include previously obtained presence and or location information from tagged physical objects or user devices. The location monitoring application may combine the updated information with the previously obtained information to identify movement of tag devices and user devices and thereby movement of tagged physical objects and users. Additionally when a notification of an emergency condition occurs the location monitoring application may begin to periodically request receive and process location presence information from the beacons . Each time new information is received the location monitoring application may process the data to determine the location of objects within the facility whether those objects are moving and a direction of their movement when the objects are moving. Thus emergency personnel security personnel facilities managers or those with special responsibilities may quickly locate those objects.

For example in the event of an earthquake some employees in an office may be injured. Other employees or emergency personnel may need to locate a first aid kit in order to help those injured employees. By using a user device like the user device an employee or other responder may receive information from the location monitoring application to locate the first aid kit as long as it is tagged with a tag device like the tag device A. The responder may move the first aid kit to a first location to help with an injured person. Another employee or another responder may also need the first aid kit. Because the first aid kit is tagged with the tag device A the other employee or responder may receive information indicating that the first aid kit is now in the first location.

In various embodiments service provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to service provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally service provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or other users may establish one or more user accounts with service provider server . User accounts in database may include user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. The accounts may be linked to through their respective user and or device identifier. The database may also include listings of tagged physical objects their tag identifiers and object identifiers or descriptions. The database may also include layout information of a facility. For example the database may include a floor plan of a facility and include the locations of the beacons within that floor plan. In some embodiments the locations of the beacons may be obtained by having the beacons communicate with each other a signal strength indicator from those communications may then be used to calculate distances between the beacons . As described in connection with the tag devices and the user device these distances may then be used by the location monitoring application to determine the locations of the beacons . In some embodiments a location of one of the beacons may be entered manually onto a floor plan. For example one of the beacons may be placed in a corner or in another area that is readily distinguishable on a floor plan of the facility. In another embodiment an external reference such as a GPS device may be provided as part of the system to properly geo reference the beacons to the location of the GPS device. The GPS device or another system may provide a location fixation signal that may be used to register the location of at least one of the beacons within a large frame of reference such as a campus or neighborhood.

In some emergency situations the locations of one or more of the beacons which are described as fixed devices herein may change. For example in a partial building collapse one or more of the beacons may be fixed to a surface such as a ceiling in the collapsed portion of the facility. Because of the collapse the position of one or more of the beacons may change. After receiving the emergency notification the location monitoring application may request an update of the locations of the beacons . By comparing this with previously obtained location information or with subsequently obtained location information movement of the beacons may be detected. In some embodiments the movement of one or more of the beacons may be provided to emergency responders or others as an indication of damage to the building. After any change in the locations of the beacons has been accounted for the distances to the tag devices may be determined. In this way the modeling of the locations of tag devices and the user device may be adjusted to compensate for the new arrangement of beacons . By compensating for the new arrangement of beacons accurate location information of tagged physical objects may be provided despite significant structural damage to the facility.

In various embodiments service provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate user device and or beacons over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices. Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

Referring now to shown therein is a layout of a facility. As illustrated the layout is the layout of an office building. In other embodiments the layout may be the layout of a hospital a stadium a college campus or business campus a zoo a museum the house etc. The layout may be included in the database as a computer file such as an architectural computer aided drafting design CAD file. The layout may be associated with other databases in the database such as a database containing the locations of one or more beacons one or more tag devices and one or more user devices like the user device . The location monitoring application may be configured to co register information from one database with another database or file within the database . For example the layout includes exemplary registered information depicting the location of beacons tag devices and tagged physical objects within the layout .

As shown in the layout includes wall sections like the exemplary wall section . The various wall sections in the layout combine to provide representations of rooms such as the rooms A B and C collectively rooms . As illustrated the rooms may be or include offices laboratories storage rooms etc. The wall sections of the layout further described hallways such as the hallway and open areas such as the open area . The layout further includes a stairway A leading up to another floor in the office and a stairway B leading down to another floor in the office. Several windows are also included in the layout .

As discussed the location monitoring application may use co registered data to locate various beacons within the layout . As shown in the layout indicates the locations of beacons A B C D and E. The positioning and configuration of the beacons may be selected at installation to provide sufficient coverage to locate responsive devices throughout the floor of the building. Additionally the location of the beacon A corresponds to a corner of the building. As such during a setup phase of the location monitoring application a user may be able to easily select the placement position of the beacon A. Because the beacons may be configured to communicate with each other to determine the relative distances the positioning of the other beacons and the layout may be automatically performed after the user enters the position of the beacon A.

In some embodiments a beacon may be provided in each room and or area. The range of the beacon may be limited to the room or area in which the beacon is provided. In such embodiments the location of a tagged physical object may be understood as the presence or absence of the tagged physical object within a room.

As described herein the beacons may be used to obtain positioning information for tag devices and user devices present in the building corresponding to the layout . As illustrated in several tag devices are shown attached to physical objects including movable objects and features of the layout that are not intended to move. For example the tag device A is attached to the stairway B. In an emergency situation where vision is obscured or in which a user is not familiar with the layout of the building the location of the stairway to which the tag device A is attached may be provided to a user such as the user using a user device such as the user device .

Several other tag devices are included in the layout . These tag devices including tag device B tag device C and tag device D are shown as attached to physical objects B C and D respectively. As described herein the physical objects to which a tag device may be attached include a safe a file cabinet a computer a data storage device a first aid kit a defibrillator a letter a food and water supply or any other physical object that may be of importance for security purposes or safety purposes in the event of an emergency. Additionally one or more of the physical objects B C and or D may be a person such as an employee a patient in a hospital etc. One or more of the tag devices B C and D may be a tag device as integrated into a user device such as a phone.

For example the physical object D may be a first aid kit. The location of the first aid kit may be determined by determining the location of the tag device D. The location of the tag device D may be determined by obtaining information describing the distance between the tag device D and one or more of the beacons . For example after notification of an emergency is received by the notification application the location monitoring application may request that the beacons obtain information indicative of the location of tagged physical objects within the layout . Assuming that the beacons A B and D are within range of the tag device D each of the beacons A B and D may determine a distance to the tag device D. These distances may be provided to the location monitoring application which in turn triangulates or otherwise obtains the location of the tag device D. The location of the tag device D may be stored in the database . A physical object identifier may be obtained by one or more of the beacons A B and or D and provided to the location monitoring application . In some embodiments prior to deployment of the tag device D the user of the service provider server may enter a physical object identifier associated with the tag device D. In this way the first aid kit represented by the physical object D may be associated with the tag device D.

The various aspects of the layout are not necessarily drawn to scale. Accordingly the relationships between physical sizes of features such as a room a hallway a stairway a beacon a tag device etc. should not be understood as limited to the illustrated embodiment.

When a user connects to the service provider server the service provider server may determine a level of access to which the user may be permitted. For example a different level of access may be provided to a facilities manager than to an employee. The facilities manager may be allowed to see the locations of the beacons to enable the facilities manager to determine whether the coverage provided by the beacons is adequate and or has changed over time or changed as a consequence of an emergency. As another example an emergency responder may not be permitted to see the locations of sensitive commercial property but may see representations of people and or emergency equipment. In some embodiments of the user interface the layout window may highlight or otherwise visually flag any beacons that have moved. In this way the facilities manager may be able to assess the extent of damage resulting from an emergency. An employee that is using the user interface may be presented with the layout in the layout window that does not depict the beacons . This may provide a simpler depiction in the layout window to enable an employee to more readily locate a tagged object such as a first aid kit.

As illustrated in the layout window includes representations of the tagged physical objects A B C and D. In some embodiments the layout window may include representations of both the tag devices and the tagged physical objects as shown in the layout of . In some embodiments of the layout window a representative icon may be presented to convey the location of the tagged physical object. For example a first aid kit may be represented in the layout with a stylized first aid kit icon. In some embodiments by selecting a tagged object icon the user may obtain additional information about the tagged object. Such additional information may include a description of the tagged physical object a tag device identifier a status of the tagged object e.g. whether the tagged object has been moved since the start of the emergency and other information.

In some embodiments of the user interface a filter window may be provided to enable a user to filter between types of items for display in the layout window . For example a user may wish to more clearly see items that may be used to address needs that arise due to the emergency. For example the user may wish to find a first aid kit a defibrillator a stretcher etc. without displaying other items such as a laptop or data storage device that contain sensitive information. Accordingly the user may select the emergency items button from a range of options provided in the filter window . In response the layout window may be populated with only these emergency items. As another example the user may be a data security officer who has been charged with ensuring the safety of company data. The data security officer may want to see tagged physical objects that are tagged due to the sensitivity of information they contain or embody. Accordingly the data security officer may select the security items button from the filter window . Another person may be tasked with ensuring that all of the employees that work on the floor of the building depicted in the layout window are safely evacuated in the event of an emergency. This person may select to see people that are present in the building by selecting the people button . Other filters may be provided in the filter window such as a moved items filter that causes only the items that have moved since the emergency or since another specified time to be displayed in layout window . The filters may be applied exclusively or inclusively. For example in some embodiments only one of the options presented by the filter window may be selected at a given time. In other embodiments multiple options may be selected in the filter window and the tagged physical objects corresponding to the selected options may be displayed in the layout window . By selecting one or more options within the filter window one or more of the tagged physical objects A D may no longer be displayed in the layout window . The available filter options in the filter window may depend on the level of access granted to the user.

In some embodiments the filter window may not be present. For example in some embodiments the service provider server may be configured to determine which physical objects are likely to be of interest or relevant to a particular user given the particular emergency condition. For example the service provider server may determine that a particular user is in a facility in a location in which a fire has occurred or is occurring. The service provider server may send a notification to that particular user that includes the location of a tagged fire extinguisher. In some embodiments user defined settings may be used by the service provider server to determine what physical objects are relevant or of interest to a particular user given a particular emergency condition. In some embodiments a user may be provided with the filter window in a user interface and also receive customized notifications.

Some embodiments of the user interface may include an anticipated items list . The anticipated items list may be pre populated by the service provider server depending on the emergency indicated by the notification application and by an identity of the user. For example in the depicted embodiment the anticipated items list includes buttons corresponding to an emergency exit a first aid kit and a fire extinguisher. A user of the user interface may simply select one of these buttons and the corresponding item may be highlighted in the layout window . The corresponding item may be one of tagged physical objects A D.

The user interface may further include an information status window . The information status window may provide a time date stamp to assess information displayed in the layout window . The information status window may include the time at which notification of the emergency was received by the notification application . The information status window may also include an indication as to when the information displayed in the layout window was last updated. The information status window may also include a current time. This information may be useful in assessing how current the information in the layout window is. As illustrated about five minutes have passed since the last update to the information displayed in the layout window . Depending on the emergency and the information being requested the information may or may not be current enough for a particular user. The information status window may include a data refresh button . By selecting the data refresh button the user may issue a command to the location monitoring application to request updated information from the beacons . This data may be collected and processed by the service provider server and the processed information may be communicated to the user through the user interface A.

The user interface B further includes a watch items list which may be presented when security personnel log into the service provider server to access data displayed in the user interface B. The watch items list may include specific items of high priority that may be tracked or monitored during an emergency. For example the watch items list as depicted in includes a button corresponding to the CEO s laptop and a button corresponding to a prototype. By selecting one of the listed items in the watch items list the layout window may be altered to further distinguish the selected item or items. For example if the prototype is the contact physical object D selection of the prototype button from the watch items list may alter the depiction in the layout window of the tagged physical object D. In some embodiments the alteration of the depiction in the layout window may be the removal of the representations of the other tagged physical objects A B and C. In this way the security personnel may have an easier time monitoring the prototype e.g. the tagged physical object D. When an item in the watch items list fails to communicate with any of the beacons within the facility an alert or notification may be provided to the security personnel through the user interface B. If the item fails to communicate with any of the beacons within the facility after having previously communicated with only some of the beacons and after having been observed as moving the service provider server and the location monitoring application operating thereon may infer that the item has been removed from the facility. A time in which the item was last observed by location monitoring application as being within the facility may be recorded and stored in the database .

Referring now to shown therein is a user interface C which shares many features in common with the user interface is A and B as described herein. The people filter is applied. The user interface C further includes a people list . The people list may include a list of people that are or are expected to be in possession of a tagged physical object such as a user device or a personal monitoring tag device. For example employees may be checked in to the service provider server upon entering their work location. When an emergency occurs a list of the people whose tags are within communication range of the beacons within the facility may be compiled. In some embodiments the people list may display a list of people who are still in the facility. For example the people list indicates that one person John Donut is still in the facility approximately 10 minutes after the time of the emergency. This information the identity of John Donut and his location within the building may be provided to responders to search for John Donut. As another example John Donut may be a patient in the hospital. Upon admission the hospital may provide patients with a tag device such as a hospital admissions bracelet to facilitate monitoring and care of the patient. In an emergency situation in which in which a hospital building wing or floor is to be evacuated the tag devices provided to patients on admission may be used with the service provider server to ensure that all patients have been evacuated by indicating which patients have not been evacuated.

As indicated by the user interfaces A B and C different features and different information may be provided to a user of the service provider server according to the specific user s role and or requests and instructions provided through the user interface. These user interfaces may enable the monitoring of tagged physical objects in an emergency situation. In some embodiments one of the user interfaces A B or C may be accessed by a user of the service provider server through a user device upon receipt of a customized notification from the service provider server . The notification may be customized for the user based on an identity of the user the location of the user device predefined settings of the user and or the emergency condition.

Embodiments of the method may be performed by the service provider server as described herein. In some embodiments the method may be stored as a set of instructions or executable code on a non tangible computer readable medium. When the instructions are executed by one or more processors the enumerated operations may be performed. Aspects of the method may be performed by the service provider server of .

Embodiments of the method may begin at step in which an emergency condition is determined. The emergency condition may be determined based on a notification of an emergency condition that is received from an emergency notification service. The notification may be received by the notification application operating on the service provider server . The notification application may receive information describing the emergency condition from a plurality of beacons operating in an area from an alarm system comprising smoke alarms earthquake alarms tsunami alarms and or burglar alarms etc. A time at which the notification of the emergency condition is received may be recorded in a database .

At step and in response to determining the emergency condition at least one beacon is directed to initiate communication with a tag device associated with a physical object. In some embodiments more than one beacon is directed to initiate communication with the tag device. The physical object may be a file cabinet a computer a safe a first aid kit a defibrillator an emergency exit a smart phone a prototype an employee a patient or any other physical object that may be decidedly monitored and or located during an emergency. The direction to initiate communication with the tag device may be a direction to initiate a new communication to request updated information from the tag device. This updated information may include an identifier of the tag device and or an identifier of the physical object with which the tag devices associated. The updated information may include new information or may include the same information previously sent. The tag device and the wireless beacon or beacons may connect using one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication and Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication. Thus the tag device may comprise one of a BLE communication module and or and LTE Direct communication module etc. The beacon or beacons may be range limited such that a plurality of fixed beacons may be used to monitor a desired area such as a building or floor of the building.

At step a location of the physical object is determined based at least on a distance between the tag device associated with the physical object and the at least one beacon or more than one beacon. The location of the physical object may be determined by determining the position of the tag device. This may be done by triangulating or otherwise calculating a position of the tag device from a plurality of distances between the tag device and two or more of the fixed beacons. This calculation may be performed by the location monitoring application operating on the service provider server .

At step data comprising the determined location is transmitted to a user device. The user device may be a laptop computer a desktop computer a smart phone a wearable computer etc. that may receive information from service provider server over a network and render that information into a user interface like the user interfaces A B and C. For example the data comprising the determined location may be provided to a monitoring application being executed on a user device of the user of .

In some embodiments of the method the data may comprise a notification that when accessed by the user causes the determined location of the physical object to be displayed in a user interface like one of the user interfaces A B or C of or C. . Some embodiments may include operations of determining a subset of the system users based on the emergency condition transmitting a notification to each of the subset of the system users. The notification comprises the location of one or more physical objects that are likely to be of interest to each of the subset of the system users due to the emergency condition. For example the notification may include the location of a fire extinguisher when a fire occurs. In another embodiments the location of defibrillator may be provided to a user of the service provider system based on the emergency and information of the user e.g. an indication that the user has been trained in use of the defibrillator. In general a user may be provided with data the locate one or more physical objects based on the location of the user the specific emergency condition known user skills certifications or training and or pre defined settings entered by the user. In this way the locations of the most relevant physical objects to the user in the particular emergency conditions may be provided and accessed. Similarly information that is unwanted or not useful to the user may not be communicate to the user during the emergency. This may be helpful in communicating the information that the user can beneficially act upon without overwhelming the user with unnecessary information in a stressful and or dangerous circumstance.

Embodiments of the method may further include providing a facility layout to the user device and overlaying an indicator of the physical object or the associated tag device onto the facility layout by registering the determined location to the facility layout. The method may include accessing a pre notification location of the physical object. The pre notification location may be stored in a database after being calculated by location monitoring application from information previously stored in the database . The service provider server may compare the pre notification location of the physical object with the determined location of the physical object and when a location change greater than a threshold is found by the comparison the server may transmit an alert to the user device. The threshold may have different values in different embodiments. For example the threshold may be 6 inches in some embodiments and 10 feet in other embodiments. The beacons within the facility may be configured such that each beacon covers a defined area such as a room. In such embodiments the threshold may be a location change in which the tag device leaves its original room.

In some embodiments of the method after an interval or period of time has passed a current distance may be gauged between the physical object and the fixed beacons to determine a current location of the physical object. The service provider server may compare the current location of the physical object with the determined location of the physical object and when a location change greater than a threshold is found by the comparison an alert or notification may be transmitted to a user device. After an interval of time a communication request may be initiated for the fixed beacons to communicate with the tag device. In the event that no response is received from the tag device by at least one of the fixed beacons an alert may be transmitted to the user device. No response may be received in the event that the tag device has been moved beyond the limited range of the fixed beacons and the event of the tag device has been destroyed or in another event.

In some situations a part of the building to which one of the beacons is a fixed may collapse in an earthquake. In some embodiments of the method the beacons may be configured to determine their relative locations based on the signal strength of signals exchanged between the beacons at the direction of the service provider server . When notification of an emergency is received the service provider server may direct the beacons to exchange signals in order to determine the relative locations of the beacons. The service provider server may access a set of previously determined relative locations of some or all of the beacons and compare the most current relative locations with the previously determined relative locations to determine a change in the relative location of any beacon has moved. When a beacon of the set of beacons has moved the service provider server may compensate for the change in the location of that beacon. In this manner errors in determining the location of the tag device due to the movement of one or more beacons may be avoided.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio visual input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio Visual I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . For example the system memory component static storage component and or disk drive may including instructions that when executed by the processor s cause the processor s to perform operations as described above in connection with the method of .

In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Embodiments of the computer system further include at least one power supply. As depicted in the computer system includes a first power supply that supplies receives power into the computer system . The computer system further includes a second power supply such as a battery. The battery may be a replaceable battery or a hardwired battery. The second power supply and be charged from the first power supply such that in the event of a disruption to the power supply the second power supply A provide power to keep the computer system operational. As described herein tag devices such as the tag devices and other tag devices described herein may have a battery based power supply. The beacons described herein may include the battery based power supply and in some embodiments further include an additional power line based power supply.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

