---

title: Surface plasma wave coupled detectors
abstract: The present disclosure relates to an electromagnetic energy detector. The detector can include a substrate having a first refractive index; a metal layer; an absorber layer having a second refractive index and disposed between the substrate and the metal layer; a coupling structure to convert incident radiation to a surface plasma wave; additional conducting layers to provide for electrical contact to the electromagnetic energy detector, each conducting layer characterized by a conductivity and a refractive index; and a surface plasma wave (“SPW”) mode-confining layer having a third refractive index that is higher than the second refractive index disposed between the substrate and the metal layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09466739&OS=09466739&RS=09466739
owner: STC.UNM
number: 09466739
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 787 570 titled Optimization of Surface Plasma Wave Coupled Detectors filed on Mar. 15 2013 and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 502 987 titled Plasmonic Detectors filed on Apr. 19 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 61 279 435 filed on Oct. 21 2009 and 61 339 185 filed on Mar. 1 2010 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. FA9550 12 1 0049 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure generally relates to plasmonic detectors. In particular this disclosure relates to plasmonic structures and their use in resonantly enhancing the performance of infrared detectors.

There is increasing interest in using surface plasma waves or other bound local modes to both increase the interaction of incident radiation with detectors and also to provide spectral selectivity. Ongoing work covers both the infrared and the visible spectral regions.

In the visible there is a need for spectral angular resolution compatible with inexpensive silicon fabrication. While color cameras are ubiquitous the spectral resolution is provided typically by absorbing dyes which are increasingly difficult to fabricate with sufficient absorbance as the pixel size decreases and provide only limited spectral selectivity.

In the infrared detector signal to noise is an important driver. Detectors cooled to cryogenic temperatures provide the highest sensitivity but require extensive and expensive infrastructure limiting their applicability. Uncooled detectors typically based on thermal heating of an isolated structure by infrared radiation have limitations associated with high noise levels and limited response speed.

Surface plasma wave SPW and other guided mode interactions provide a method to address some of these issues. There are two related classes of SPWs. For a planar interface between a metal and a dielectric such as a semiconductor material there is a mode bound to the interface e.g. a slow wave that is propagating along the interface and evanescent exponentially decreasing in amplitude into both the metal and the dielectric . This wave is well defined for Re Re where is the permittivity of the metal with a negative real part and is the dielectric permittivity. For isolated metal structures there are localized SPW resonances that concentrate the fields this localized resonance is involved in the well known surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS effect.

Much of the analysis of SPW modes at a planar metal dielectric interface has considered only a simple two component structure with a top metal most often the metal layer incorporates a 1D or 2D grating structure to provide the necessary coupling to the slow SPW and a semi infinite dielectric layer e.g. to allow for momentum conservation . However a realistic detector structure has multiple dielectric layers with varying permittivities. These layers could include contact layers with p and n type doping absorber layers e.g. quantum dots or strained layer superlattices in the infrared and electrical isolation layers often of much lower permittivity than the semiconductor . These layers can have a profound effect on the coupling to and even to the existence of the SPW and need to be considered in a full device analysis and design. Additionally this simple two material model typically does not allow for separate indentification of the useful absorption in the absorber layer and of the parasitic absorption in the metal layer and are hence not sufficient for detailed designs.

S. C. Lee S. Krishna and S. R. J. Brueck Light direction dependent plasmonic enhancement in quantum dot infrared photodetectors Applied Physics Letters 97 02112 2010 .

S. C. Lee Y. D. Sharma S. Krishna and S. R. J. Brueck Leaky mode effects in plasmonic coupled quantum dot infrared photodetectors Applied Physics Letters 100 011110 2012 .

S. C. Lee S. Krishna and S. R. J. Brueck Quantum dot infrared photodetector enhanced by surface plasma wave excitation Optical Society of America Optics Express Vol. 17 No. Dec. 7 2009.

S. J. Lee Z. Ku A. Barve J. Montoya W. Y. Jang S. R. J. Brueck M. Sundaram A. Reisinger S. Krishna and S. K. Noh A monolithically integrated plasmonic infrared quantum dot camera Nature Communications DOI 10.1038 ncomms1283.

Z. Ku W. Y. Jang J. Zhou J. O. Kim A. V. Barve S. Silva S. Krishna S. R. J. Brueck R. Nelson A. Urbas S. Kang and S. J. Lee Analysis of subwavelength metal hole array structure for the enhancement of black illuminated quantum dot infrared photodetectors Optical Society of America Optics Express Vol. 21 No. 4 Feb. 25 2013.

J. Chen G. A. Smolyakov S. R. J. Brueck and K. J. Malloy Surface plasmon modes of finite planar metal insulator metal plasmonic waveguides Optical Society of America Optics Express Vol. 16 No. 19 Sep. 15 2008.

In accordance with implementations consistent with the present teachings an electromagnetic energy detector is disclosed. The detector can comprise a substrate having a first refractive index a metal layer an absorber layer having a second refractive index and disposed between the substrate and the metal layer a coupling structure to convert incident radiation to a surface plasma wave additional conducting layers to provide for electrical contact to the electromagnetic energy detector each conducting layer characterized by a conductivity and a refractive index a surface plasma wave SPW mode confining layer having a third refractive index that is higher than the second refractive index disposed between the substrate and the metal layer.

In implementations the SPW mode confining layer can be disposed between the substrate and the absorber layer. Alternatively the SPW mode confining layer can be disposed between the absorber layer and the metal layer.

In implementations the detector can comprise a top contact layer comprising a dielectric layer having a fourth refractive index that is lower than the second refractive index and disposed between the substrate and the metal layer.

In implementations the detector can comprise a top contact layer comprising a dielectric layer having a fourth refractive index that is higher than the second refractive index and disposed between the substrate and the metal layer.

In implementations the detector can comprise a bottom contact layer comprising a dielectric layer having a fifth refractive index that is lower than the second refractive index and the fourth refractive index and disposed between the substrate and the metal layer.

In implementations the detector can comprise a bottom contact layer comprising a dielectric layer having a fifth refractive index that is higher than the second refractive index and the fourth refractive index and disposed between the substrate and the metal layer.

In implementations the absorber layer can comprise a strained layer superlattice SLS . In implementations the SLS can comprise InAs GaSb having a thickness 0.09 m.

In implementations the absorber layer can comprise a plurality of quantum dots designed for absorption at the detector operating wavelength.

In implementations the coupling structure can comprise a semiconductor layer with post structures etched or deposited therein and the metal layer comprises a continuous metal layer.

In implementations the coupling structure can be patterned and the metal layer can comprise a corrugated metal layer.

In implementations consistent with the present teachings a method of forming an electromagnetic energy detector is disclosed. The method can comprise forming a metal layer on a substrate the substrate having a first refractive index forming an absorber layer having a second refractive index between the substrate and the metal layer forming a coupling structure in the vicinity of the metal layer to couple incident radiation into surface plasma waves confined to and propagating along the metal dielectric interface and forming a surface plasma wave SPW mode confining layer having a third refractive index that is higher than the second refractive index between the substrate and the metal layer.

In implementations the SPW mode confining layer can be formed between the substrate and the absorber layer.

In implementations the SPW mode confining layer can be formed between the absorber layer and the metal layer.

In implementations the coupling structure is formed within the evanescent length of the decay in the dielectric layer of the metal layer to couple incident radiation into surface plasma waves confined to and propagating along the metal dielectric interface.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the application as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate embodiments of the application and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the application.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific exemplary embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

As illustrated in the layered detector structure comprises a substrate composed of e.g. GaSb 14.45 3.801 GaAs and other bulk III V materials HgCdTe an absorber layer e.g. a strained layer superlattice SLS absorber layer composed of materials including but are not limited to a lower permittivity InAs GaSb SLS absorber layer 12.25 InAs 

The structure of can be illustrative of some of the issues encountered with theses type of devices. Often the materials of the absorber layer the cladding layer and the metal layer have a different index of refraction than the materials of the substrate . If there is layer within the structure composed of a material having a lower index of refraction than the substrate material then the structure can exhibit leaky mode behavior which can result in a decrease of the coupling of light into the substrate and thus a decrease in sensitivity of a detector comprising the structure . shows a plot of the calculated modal behavior real and imaginary parts as a function of the thickness of the absorber layer for a very simple structure with only a metal film Au for the metal layer a SLS absorber layer of variable thickness and a GaSb substrate e.g. no cladding layer . The calculation is for a wavelength of 4 m in the mid wave infrared. A conventional transfer matrix analysis was used for this calculation as is known in the art.

As shown in the loss Im modal index without any SLS thickness is the background loss associated with the metal optical properties. This is equivalent to the loss shown for a 1 nm thick SLS layer on the left hand side of . The excess loss as the SLS thickness is increased is the useful absorption that leads to electrical response of the detector. At an SLS thickness of several tenths of a m this loss plummets. This is the onset of the leaky mode regime as the real part of the modal index passes through the substrate index. Around this point the mode extends deep into the substrate and there is very little of the mode intensity at the absorber and therefore a dramatic reduction in the useful absorption. This is the onset of the leaky mode regime.

This issue can be resolved by adding the cladding layer composed of a material having an index of refraction that is at least as high as that of the material of the substrate . The addition of the higher index of refraction cladding layer does come with a necessary compromise. If the cladding layer is too thin the modes of incident radiation are not effectively bound to the vicinity of the absorber layer . If the cladding layer is too thick the absorber layer becomes too distant from the strong fields of the incident radiation and results in a decrease in the absorption. These effects are illustrated in which shows the modal indices top real part bottom imaginary part with the thickness of a high index Ge layer n 4.0 as a parameter.

The results demonstrate that the SPW or other bound mode is bound to the surface of the absorber layer which allows an increase in thickness of the absorber layer or other layers underneath the cladding layer . The curve for t 0 was also shown in and is repeated here. As the thickness of the cladding layer composed in this example of Ge is increased the mode becomes increasingly bound to the surface of the absorber layer and the leaky mode regime is avoided. For t 0.05 m there is still a significant dip in the absorption that recovers as the thickness of the SLS is increased. This dip is still barely apparent for t 0.1 m and is entirely eliminated for t 0.2 m.

For still thicker Ge cladding layer the absorber layer is moved further into the sample and the absorption decreases as a result of the evanescent decay of the mode into the sample. This is shown in which shows the imaginary part for thicker Ge layers of 0.2 and 0.5 m.

The above discussed considerations can combined all of this into a figure of merit for the detector. For a conventional double pass geometry illuminate through the substrate and reflection from a metal film on top of the epitaxy the figure of merit is 

Three points are specifically callout out arrows on . For a traditional double pass geometry the highest FOM of 0.36 is found at a SLS thickness of 3 to 4 m. For thinner layers there is insufficient absorption and for thicker layers the noise increases without additional absorption. In contrast the optimal FOM for the SPW detectors is at an SLS thickness of 0.09 m this does depend on the pixel width 25 m for this calculation . The peak FOM is about 1.5 an improvement of 420 . At the same SLS thickness the double pass detector shows a FOM of only 0.03 a factor of 50 lower than the SPW case. This figure is at the design wavelength of the detector which was taken as 4 m for the calculation . The design wavelength can be shifted by changing the pitch of the coupling structure.

As noted above a periodic variation is needed to provide for coupling from free space radiation to the surface plasma wave. In some implementations the metal layer e.g. metal film can be modified to include a metal photonic crystal MPC which is a metal film perforated with an array of holes as shown in . The MPC can be substituted in place of metal layer or formed on top of metal layer . Additionally or alternatively the MPC can be formed at the bottom of the structure and adjacent to the substrate . The MPC can enhance the coupling of the incident radiation to the structure allowing the absorber layer to receive a larger portion of the incident radiation. Additionally or alternatively the structure can be modified by coupling the bottom surface of the substrate with a corrugated metal surface CMS which is an array of posts etched into the semiconductor covered with a continuous Au film as shown in . The CMS design completely decouples the optical properties from any materials such as In solder bumps that are added on top of the Au film for integration with a read out integrated circuit ROIC . This makes the design fully compatible with existing industry manufacturing practices. The performance of the detector can be optimized for different applications e.g. broad band vs. narrow band coupling wavelength and coupling strength by changing the properties of the coupling structure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as is apparent. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent from the described descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

Other embodiments of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. In particular it should be appreciated that the processes defined herein are merely exemplary and that the steps of the processes need not necessarily be performed in the order presented. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

