---

title: Systems, methods, circuits and associated software for augmenting contact details stored on a communication device with data relating to the contact contained on social networking sites
abstract: Disclosed are methods, circuits, systems and applications for providing messaging services which may provide for download, synchronization, voicemail-message to text-message translation, direct access and handling of selected voicemail messages through a user's user interface. Further disclosed are systems, methods, circuits and associated software for retrieving data associated with contacts stored on a communication device from social networking sites and integrating the retrieved data into the operation of the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565551&OS=09565551&RS=09565551
owner: MOBILE SYNERGY SOLUTIONS, LLC
number: 09565551
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140724
---
U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 897 468 filed by the inventors of the present invention titled Systems Methods Circuits and Associated Software for Augmenting Contact Details Stored on a Communication Device with Data Relating to the Contact Contained on Social Networking Sites filed on May 20 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 777 528 filed by the inventors of the present invention titled Method Circuit System and Application for Providing Messaging Services filed on May 11 2010 and further claims priority from 

The present invention relates generally to the field of communication. More specifically the present invention relates to systems methods circuits and associated software for augmenting contact details stored on a communication device with data relating to the contact contained on social networking sites.

In modern times cellular phones serve their users for far more than just conversation. Therefore modern cellular networks offer their users various value added services such as web browsing messaging etc. In today s cellular networks many of the value added services are implemented on the network servers or by a third party connected to the network via a distributed data network such as the internet. For this reason a phone user can only access these services via an intermediate media service such as web browsing dialing or IVR Interactive Voice Response . This makes these services difficult and cumbersome to access and often entails an added charge for the intermediate media service. This fact often times may prevent or limit the activation and usage of these services.

Accordingly there is a need in the field of communication for cellular value added services which services design minimizes or negates the need of an intermediate media user access.

A social networking site focuses on building online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Most social network services are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail instant messaging and blog like services. Social networking has encouraged new ways to communicate and share information. Social networking websites are being used regularly by millions of people.

In general social networking services allow users to create a profile for themselves and can be broken down into two broad categories internal social networking ISN and external social networking ESN sites such as MySpace Facebook Twitter and Bebo. Both types can increase the feeling of community among people. An ISN is a closed private community that consists of a group of people within a company association society education provider and organization or even an invite only group created by a user in an ESN. An ESN is open public and available to all web users to communicate and are designed to attract advertisers. ESN s can be smaller specialized communities i.e. linked by a single common interest e.g. TheSocialGolfer ACountryLife.Com Great Cooks Community or they can be large generic social networking sites e.g. MySpace Facebook etc. .

However whether specialized or generic there is commonality across the general approach of social networking sites. Users can upload a picture of themselves create their profile add a textual and or graphical description of what they have in mind right now post videos and more. Users can often be friends with other users. In most social networking services both users must confirm that they are friends before they are linked and able to share information with each other. For example if Alice lists Bob as a friend then Bob would have to approve Alice s friend request before they are listed as friends. Some social networking sites have a favorites feature that does not need approval from the other user. Social networks usually have privacy controls that allow the user to choose who can view their profile or contact them etc.

Several social networks in Asian markets such as India China Japan and Korea have reached not only a high usage but also a high level of profitability. Services such as QQ China Mixi Japan Cyworld Korea or the mobile focused service Mobile Game Town by the company DeNA in Japan which has over 10 million users are all profitable setting them apart from their western counterparts.

Some social networks have additional features such as the ability to create groups that share common interests or affiliations upload or stream live videos and hold discussions in forums. Geosocial networking co opts internet mapping services to organize user participation around geographic features and their attributes.

Lately mobile social networking has become popular. In most mobile communities mobile phone users can now create their own profiles make friends participate in chat rooms create chat rooms hold private conversations share photos and videos and share blogs by using their mobile phone. Mobile phone users are basically open to every option that someone sitting on the computer has. Some companies provide wireless services which allow their customers to build their own mobile community and brand it but one of the most popular wireless services for social networking in North America is Facebook Mobile. Other companies provide new innovative features which extend the social networking experience into the real world.

Mobile social networking is currently accomplished using a web browser or via stand alone applications for mobile devices. Both options operate independently of the other communication functions of the mobile device. Therefore although these applications may allow a user to perform virtually any action on the social networks that could be performed on a home computer they do not take advantage of the data contained on these sites in order to improve the other communication functions performed by the mobile device. Moreover each application is site specific communicating with only one social networking site. There is still a need for improved mobile social networking.

The present invention is a method circuit system and application for providing messaging services. According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM Visual Voice Mail system may include server side component s network side components and client side software application component s installed on a Remote Device Remote Device mobile communication computing device such as a cell phone feature phone Java phone smart phone pocket PC etc. .

According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM client application that may be a component in the client side software application may be provided. The VVM client application may be adapted for installation or embedment on a Remote Device. The VVM client application may include a communication module adapted to communicate with the VVM server side components over a data link such as but not limited to a data service e.g. UMTS provided by a cellular operator or a Wi Fi service. The VVM server side components may either be integral with a voicemail server and or may interface with a voicemail server operated by a third party such as a cellular operator.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may communicate with more than one VVM server side component which VVM server side components may be integral and or may interface with more than one voicemail server possibly of different types. For example the VVM client application may communicate with a VVM server side component integral with and or interfacing with a wireless mailbox and a VVM server side component integral with and or interfacing with a wireline mailbox at the same time. Accordingly the VVM client application may support more than one voicemail protocol.

The VVM server side component s may be adapted to monitor a functionally associated voicemail server i.e. voicemail server with which it is integral or interfacing for voicemail activities related to one or more voicemail accounts. Such activities may include but are not limited to addition modification or removal of voicemail entries. Exemplary voicemail entries may include but are not limited to one or more of the following 1 a Voicemail message a message deposited into the account by a third party or by the account s owner 2 a Greeting Outgoing Message OGM a recording which is played as a welcome message for a party that has called the user and has been directed to voicemail 3 Other entries that may include voicemail account related data e.g. an entry confirming whether a certain voice message has already been transferred copied to and stored on a user s remote device . A voicemail message may include one or more of the following media types 1 Audio 2 Video 3 Fax 4 Text transcription of the audio 5 General text attached to the voicemail message 6 images 7 Metadata relating to the entry 8 email and or 9 any other media type known today or to be devised in the future.

According to some embodiments of the present invention upon detecting a voicemail activity or change in a voicemail server account being monitored for instance when 1 a new voicemail message s has arrived in a given user s voicemail account 2 a new greeting was recorded 3 a voicemail entry was deleted 4 a voicemail entry was updated due to server or user activities 5 a voicemail s account parameters were updated e.g. the password was changed the VVM server side component s may send a status changed trigger signal to the given user s VVM client application. The trigger signal may for example be in the form of a coded short message service sms message sent to the user s remote device. The coded signal may contain information regarding the change made in the voicemail server account and or information required to access the account. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be adapted to configure the remote device to suppress or otherwise avoid issuing notifications of said received coded sms messages intended for the VVM client application. Such SMS notifications may be distinguished from other sms messages according to content application port or any other appropriate method.

According to some embodiments of the present invention one or more of the VVM server side component s may automatically encode e.g. using AMR MP3 ACC 3GPP Jpeg GIF AVI or any other media type and or convert a copy of voicemail entries stored on the voicemail server into an encapsulated data structure suitable for transmission over a data link. Associated with each voicemail entry copy may be one or more parameters metadata associated with the voicemail entry from which the copy was made. Such exemplary parameters may include 1 date and time of voicemail entry 2 length of voicemail entry content 3 message origination details e.g. phone number of phone from which message was recorded 4 listened not yet listened indicator 5 is deleted indicator and or 6 any other relevant data all of which may be stored along with or as metadata within or otherwise associated with an entry copy file.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be adapted to initiate a synchronization process between the VVM client application storage and the VVM server side component s storage. The VVM client application may initiate a synchronization 1 Immediately and automatically upon receipt of a status changed signal e.g. a coded sms message a data message or any other signaling mechanism from the VVM server side component s 2 whenever the network is unavailable to the remote device e.g. out of range upon return of availability 3 when manually triggered to do so by a user 4 periodically and or 5 after a status changed signal has been received and 2 3 or 4 have occurred.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the synchronization process may include 1 a transfer of one or more voicemail entry copies and their accompanying parameters from the VVM server side component s to the VVM client application and or vice versa 2 an update of one or more of a voicemail s accompanying parameters in the VVM server side component s storage and or the VVM client application storage 3 a permanent or temporary deletion of one or more voicemail entries including its accompanying parameters from the VVM server side component s storage or VVM client application storage 4 a forwarding of one or more voicemail entries to another voicemail account and or 5 a deposit of a one or more new voicemail entries in the user s own voicemail account or another voicemail account belonging to a different user.

The synchronization mechanism may be optimized for speed cost or any other parameter that may be useful for this process or required to deliver better service.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the synchronization process may be automatically triggered from time to time at the discretion of the VVM client application in response to local storage changes or time based for example local entry deletion local entry being listened to etc.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may store the retrieved message copies locally on the remote device s non volatile memory which memory may either be integral with the communication device or part of a mass storage device connected to or otherwise associated with the remote device. According to further embodiments of the present invention after storage of a message copy on the remote device s local memory the VVM client application may signal a receipt confirmation to the VVM server side components and the VVM server side components may erase their message copies along with associated parameters. Alternatively according to further embodiments of the present invention in response to a receipt confirmation message signal from the VVM client application the VVM server side components may mark the message copies as having been transferred rather than erasing them.

According to further embodiments of the present invention one or more of the VVM server side components may include or be functionally associated with a speech recognition module including speech recognition algorithms adapted to convert an audio portion of a stored voice message into a text string. Once created the text string may be associated with the voice message from which it was derived for example as an accompanying file. According to some embodiments of the present invention at least a portion of the text string may be stored as metadata associated with a copy of voice message from which the text string was derived. The text string may be stored e.g. in the voicemail message as one of the accompanying parameters and may be transferred along with or instead of the message copy. A user of the VVM client application may select through an interface menu a preference as to whether to receive only voice message copies only text string copies or a combination of the two.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be adapted to present a listing of locally stored voice messages along with related parameters and or metadata as a list of items e.g. on a scroll down menu . The VVM client application may also present the available voice messages in the phone inbox that is traditionally used to list SMS and MMS messages in a separate listing or both. The VVM client application may also associate the phone s media player or a special media player or any other media player to the message. The VVM client application may also access the user s contacts and indicate the name of any contact whose phone number corresponds with the phone number from which a message has originated.

The VVM client application may provide a user with options including 1 play view stored message 2 read associated metadata and or 3 delete any or all of the locally stored messages data. When a user selects a locally stored message copy the application may use a decoder corresponding to the encoder used by the VVM server side component s to create the copy to convert the stored message copy into 1 an audible signal which it may then play to the user through a transducer e.g. speaker on the remote device 2 a video or image signal which it may then display to the user on the remote device and or 3 any other media type suitable for presenting the stored message copy to the user on the remote device. When a user deletes a locally stored message the VVM client application may send a signal back to the VVM server side component s either separately or as part of a synchronization process indicating which message was deleted and the VVM server side component s may delete the corresponding message from the voicemail server and the corresponding message metadata copy if the message copy was not previously deleted. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be further adapted to allow a user to access and utilize metadata associated with a voice message for other applications such as to copy the details of the origination of a voice message to his her local contacts. The VVM client application may also be adapted to allow a user to create edit delete forward an outgoing message.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include a VVM server side component interface module adapted to interface with VVM server side components over a data link. The interface module may use interface parameters stored on a configuration file in order to determine a protocol for establishing and maintaining communication with VVM server side components. Since different voicemail servers provide different APIs using different protocols for interfacing with their voicemail systems different protocols may be required when communicating with different voicemail systems and or their respective server side components. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may also support various types of server components.

The configuration data associated with a VVM client application on a given remote device may be remotely swapped or edited using a configuration sms. A cellular operator providing voicemail server functionality in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may send a customized configuration sms to the remote device which customized configuration sms may provide the VVM client application with configuration data corresponding to the operator s voicemail server protocols.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM client application user interface may include part or all of the following exemplary functionalities 

According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM network support may include part or all of the following exemplary characteristics capabilities variants 

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

It should be understood that the accompanying drawings are presented solely to elucidate the following detailed description are therefore exemplary in nature and do not include all the possible permutations of the present invention.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device including mobile phone or any mobile device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer or phone or any other computing device. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and capable of being coupled to a computer system bus.

The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the inventions as described herein.

Terms in this application relating to distributed data networking such as send or receive may be interpreted in reference to Internet protocol suite which is a set of communications protocols that implement the protocol stack on which the Internet and most commercial networks run. It has also been referred to as the TCP IP protocol suite which is named after two of the most important protocols in it the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP which were also the first two networking protocols defined. Today s IP networking represents a synthesis of two developments that began in the 1970s namely LANs Local Area Networks and the Internet both of which have revolutionized computing.

The Internet Protocol suite like many protocol suites can be viewed as a set of layers. Each layer solves a set of problems involving the transmission of data and provides a well defined service to the upper layer protocols based on using services from some lower layers. Upper layers are logically closer to the user and deal with more abstract data relying on lower layer protocols to translate data into forms that can eventually be physically transmitted. The TCP IP reference model consists of four layers.

The IP suite uses encapsulation to provide abstraction of protocols and services. Generally a protocol at a higher level uses a protocol at a lower level to help accomplish its aims. The Internet protocol stack has never been altered by the IETF from the four layers defined in RFC 1122. The IETF makes no effort to follow the seven layer OSI model and does not refer to it in standards track protocol specifications and other architectural documents.

It should be understood that any topology technology and or standard for computer networking e.g. mesh networks infiniband connections RDMA etc. known today or to be devised in the future may be applicable to the present invention.

The present invention includes methods circuits systems and applications for providing messaging services. According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM Visual Voice Mail system may include server side component s network side components and client side software application component s installed on a Remote Device Remote Device mobile communication computing device such as a cell phone feature phone Java phone smart phone pocket PC etc. .

The present invention also includes systems methods circuits and associated software for augmenting contact details stored on a communication device such as a mobile phone with data relating to the contact contained on social networking sites hereby SNS . According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided a synchronization engine hereby SE which SE may be adapted to reside on the operating memory of a communication device such as a cellular phone. The SE may be adapted to collect data from SNS s via social network adapters and to display and or store the collected data on the communication device and may be further adapted to integrate the collected data into the operation of the communication device which may include integrated usage of the information with any of the device s embedded functionalities.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a SE may be installed on or be otherwise functionally associated with a communication device. Upon initial instancement the SE may be adapted to prompt the user to input the SNS s of which he is a member and his her credentials username password etc. for access to each of the SNS s inputted. According to further embodiments of the present invention the SE may be adapted to detect independently what SNS s a user is a member of. The SE may then access the user s profiles on the inputted SNS s using the credentials provided by the user. Subsequently the SE may compare the contacts stored on the communication device to the user s contacts friends on the SNS s to search for individual profiles on the SNS s that are associated with contacts stored on the communication device. The SE may be adapted to recognize corresponding profiles even in cases that the name is not spelled exactly the same or is otherwise slightly different from the details stored on the communication device regarding the specific contact. This may be performed using special heuristics that can perform a few types of comparisons and correlations that cover those cases where the contact name is not identical in the phone contact and in the SNS s. This algorithm may search for permutations on a specific name and or may compare additional information in suspected cases for example it may compare the associated e mail or residential address as well as additional parameters. Once the SE has correlated a contact with a specific profile on a SNS it may store a pointer link to that profile for future updates of data relating to the contact from the SNS. According to yet further embodiments of the present invention once the correlation between one or more contacts stored on the communication device and one or more profiles stored on one or more SNS s is established the SE may be further adapted to allow a user to perform actions relating to the correlated contacts on one or more SNS s via the communication device and or to use the contact list stored on the communication device while performing actions on a SNS.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the SE may be further adapted to collect data relating to the corresponding contacts such as the contact s homepage URL birthday spouse company title phone e mail and more from those contact s profiles on the SNS s and according to further embodiments of the present invention may store the collected data on the communication device s database and or on an exterior database possibly associated with the provider of the SE the provider of the communication device and or the provider of the communication service.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the SE may be further adapted to update augment the data associated with a specific contact on one or more SNS s based on data relating to that contact stored on the communication device and or based on user request.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the SE may communicate with the SNS s via SNS adapters which SNS adapters may communicate with SNS s via application programming interfaces hereby API provided by the SNS s. The SNS adapters may be adapted to translate communications from the SE into protocols used by the API s and vice versa. Each SNS adapter may be adapted to communicate with one or more SNS s and may be further adapted to optimize communications according to specific parameters such as band width consumption. The SE may be adapted to aggregate and synchronize the data relating to each contact collected from different SNS s possibly through multiple SNS adapters.

According to further embodiments of the present invention there may be provided a presentation and operation module hereby P O module which P O module may be adapted to reside on the operating memory of a communication device or otherwise be functionally associated with a communication device. The P O module may be adapted to communicate with the processor controller of a communication device and to cause the processor controller to present to a user data collected from SNS s relating to a contact stored on the communication device s database. For example the P O module may display the contact s latest profile picture or tag line from a social networking website such as facebook when the contact details are displayed. The P O module may cause the processor controller to present to a user data collected from SNS s relating to a contact when the communication device is communicating with the contact when a user accesses the contact s information upon request and or at any other time the contact s details are presented to the user. The P O module may retrieve the data collected from SNS s relating to a contact directly from the communication device s database an external database in the event that the data is stored on an external database and or via the SE.

According to yet further embodiments of the present invention the SE may be adapted to collect data relating to a contact from SNS s periodically substantially continuously when triggered by the user and or upon the occurrence of an event involving the specific contact such as if the specific contact calls the communication device. The SE may be adapted to recognize and collect only data that has been updated since the previous data collection performed by the SE. According to further embodiments of the present invention the SE may collect data associated with certain contacts more often than others based on predefined criteria such as the frequency of communication with the contact frequently used the last time the contact was used by the communication device recently used and or any other relevant distinction.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM client application that may be a component in the client side software application may be provided. The VVM client application may be adapted for installation or embedment on a Remote Device. The VVM client application may include a communication module adapted to communicate with the VVM server side components over a data link such as but not limited to a data service e.g. UMTS provided by a cellular operator or a Wi Fi service. The VVM server side components may either be integral with a voicemail server and or may interface with a voicemail server operated by a third party such as a cellular operator.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may communicate with more than one VVM server side component which VVM server side components may be integral and or may interface with more than one voicemail server possibly of different types. For example the VVM client application may communicate with a VVM server side component integral with and or interfacing with a wireless mailbox and a VVM server side component integral with and or interfacing with a wireline mailbox at the same time. For that the VVM client application may support more than one voicemail protocol.

The VVM server side components may be integral with a voicemail server Voicemail Server a server which provides voicemail services to users . Alternatively the VVM server side components may be adapted to interface with one or more voicemail servers used by or associated with cellular operators possibly via API s associated with the voicemail servers. For this purpose the VVM server side components may be adapted to work with different protocols associated with different voicemail servers and may be adapted to check which protocol is associated with a voicemail server and communicate with it accordingly.

The VVM server side component s may be adapted to monitor a functionally associated voicemail server i.e. voicemail server with which it is integral or interfacing for voicemail activities related to one or more voicemail accounts. Such activities may include but are not limited to addition modification or removal of voicemail entries. Exemplary voicemail entries may include but are not limited to one or more of the following 1 a Voicemail message a message deposited into the account by a third party or by the account s owner 2 a Greeting Outgoing Message OGM a recording which is played as a welcome message for a party that has called the user and has been directed to voicemail 3 Other entries that may include voicemail account related data e.g. an entry confirming whether a certain voice message has already been transferred copied to and stored on a user s remote device . A voicemail message may include one or more of the following media types 1 Audio 2 Video 3 Fax 4 Text transcription of the audio 5 General text attached to the voicemail message 6 images 7 Metadata relating to the entry 8 email and or 9 any other media type known today or to be devised in the future.

According to some embodiments of the present invention upon detecting a voicemail activity or change in a voicemail server account being monitored for instance when 1 a new voicemail message s has arrived in a given user s voicemail account 2 a new greeting was recorded 3 a voicemail entry was deleted 4 a voicemail entry was updated due to server or user activities 5 a voicemail s account parameters were updated e.g. the password was changed the VVM server side component s may send a status changed trigger signal to the given user s VVM client application. The trigger signal may for example be in the form of a coded short message service sms message sent to the user s remote device. The coded signal may contain information regarding the change made in the voicemail server account and or information required to access the account. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be adapted to configure the remote device to suppress or otherwise avoid issuing notifications of said received coded sms messages intended for the VVM client application.

According to some embodiments of the present invention one or more of the VVM server side component s may automatically encode e.g. using AMR MP3 ACC 3GPP Jpeg GIF AVI or any other media type and or convert a copy of voicemail entries stored on the voicemail server into an encapsulated data structure suitable for transmission over a data link. For example a VVM server side component may be adapted to encode audio messages as mp3 files. Associated with each voicemail entry copy may be one or more parameters metadata associated with the voicemail entry from which the copy was made. Such exemplary parameters may include 1 date and time of the voicemail entry 2 length of the voicemail entry content 3 message origination details e.g. phone number of phone from which message was recorded 4 a listened not yet listened indicator 5 is deleted indicator and or 6 any other relevant data all of which may be stored along with or as metadata within or otherwise associated with an entry copy file.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include a synchronization module adapted to initiate a synchronization process between the VVM client application storage and the VVM server side component s storage. The VVM client application may initiate a synchronization 1 Immediately and automatically upon receipt of a status changed signal e.g. a coded sms message a data message or any other signaling mechanism from the VVM server side component s 2 whenever the network is unavailable to the remote device e.g. out of range upon return of availability 3 when manually triggered to do so by a user 4 periodically 5 upon activation and or 6 after a status changed signal has been received and 2 3 or 4 have occurred.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the synchronization process may include 1 a transfer of one or more voicemail entry copies and their accompanying parameters from the VVM server side component s to the VVM client application and or vice versa 2 an update of one or more of a voicemail s accompanying parameters in the VVM server side component s storage and or the VVM client application storage 3 a permanent or temporary deletion of one or more voicemail entries including its accompanying parameters from the VVM server side component s storage or VVM client application storage 4 a forwarding of one or more voicemail entries to another voicemail account and or 5 a deposit of a one or more new voicemail entries in the user s own voicemail account or another voicemail account belonging to a different user. In other words a synchronization process may include 

According to further embodiments of the present invention the synchronization process may be automatically triggered from time to time at the discretion of the VVM client application in response to local storage changes or time based for example local entry deletion local entry being listened to etc. For example in circumstances that the storage associated with the VVM client application is full the VVM client application may initiate a synchronization process as soon as storage becomes available e.g. the user has deleted one or more stored messages . According to yet further embodiments of the present invention in certain cases where the voicemail server is unavailable the VVM client application may perform a synchronization with the voicemail server through a dial up connection with the TUI interface of the voicemail server. The dial up synchronization may be dependent on a user authorization or confirmation of the action.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include a voicemail storage module adapted to store the retrieved message copies locally on the remote device s non volatile memory which memory may either be integral with the communication device or part of a mass storage device connected to or otherwise associated with the remote device. According to further embodiments of the present invention after storage of a message copy on the remote device s local memory the VVM client application may signal a receipt confirmation to the VVM server side components and in response the VVM server side components may erase their message copies along with any associated data. The VVM server side component s may retain a portion of the data associated with deleted messages as a record. Alternatively according to further embodiments of the present invention in response to a receipt confirmation message signal from the VVM client application the VVM server side components may mark the message copies as having been transferred rather than erasing them.

According to further embodiments of the present invention one or more of the VVM server side components may include or be functionally associated with a speech recognition module including speech recognition algorithms adapted to convert an audio portion of a stored voice message into a text string. Once created the text string may be associated with the voice message from which it was derived for example as an accompanying file. According to some embodiments of the present invention at least a portion of the text string may be stored as metadata associated with a copy of the voice message from which the text string was derived. The text string may be stored e.g. in the voicemail message as one of the accompanying parameters and may be transferred along with or instead of the message copy. A user of the VVM client application may select through an interface menu a preference as to whether to receive only voice message copies only text string copies or a combination of the two. For example the speech recognition module may be adapted to convert the first sentence of each voicemail into a text string which text string may then be included within the metadata associated with the voicemail as an identifier or preview. In another example the speech recognition module may be adapted to identify certain key words or phrases e.g. names locations urgent etc. and convert them into a text string which text string may then be included within the metadata associated with the voicemail as an identifier or preview. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include or be functionally associated with a speech recognition module which may function as described above but from the client side. According to yet further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be adapted to interface via a communication module with a third party audio to text service provider Audio to text service provider a party that provides the services of conversion of audio media into text strings . The VVM client application may be adapted to send audio files associated with a voice message to said third party and to receive from said third party a text string derived by the third party from the audio files. The VVM client application may then store the received text string as metadata of the voice message. The VVM client application may be further adapted to update the voicemail server with the new metadata immediately and or during the following synchronization. Similarly the VVM client application may be adapted to communicate with any relevant third party service provider to perform any analysis or conversion of voicemails stored on the remote device.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include an interface module adapted to present a listing of locally stored voice messages along with related parameters and or metadata as a list of items e.g. on a scroll down menu or in any other appropriate form. The interface module may also present the available voice messages in the phone inbox that is traditionally used to list SMS and MMS messages. The VVM client application may also associate the phone s media player or a special media player or any other media player to the message.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may also access the list of contacts details stored on the remote device and correlate the origin of stored voice messages e.g. the phone number from which the message originated with matching contacts on the remote device. Accordingly details relating to contacts stored on the remote device may be associated with correlating voice messages as metadata and may be displayed to the user along with the other metadata associated with the stored voice messages.

The VVM client application may provide a user with options including 1 play view stored messages 2 read associated metadata and or 3 delete any or all of the locally stored messages data. When a user selects to playback a locally stored message copy a playback module contained in the application may use a decoder such as an audio video or image decoder corresponding to the encoder used by the VVM server side component s to create the copy to convert the stored message copy into 1 an audible signal which it may then play to the user through a transducer e.g. speaker on the remote device 2 a video or image signal which it may then display to the user on the remote device and or 3 any other media type suitable for presenting the stored message copy to the user on the remote device. When a user deletes a locally stored message the VVM client application may send a signal back to the VVM server side component s either separately or as part of a synchronization process indicating which message was deleted and the VVM server side component s may delete the corresponding message from the voicemail server and the corresponding message metadata copy if the message copy was not previously deleted. Again the VVM server side component s may retain a portion of the data associated with deleted messages as a record. When a message is independently erased deleted from the voicemail server for example due to the passage of time the VVM client application may or may not delete the corresponding message from the remote device s storage during the following synchronization. The decision whether to delete the corresponding message may be based on a specific user input i.e. the application may prompt the user to decide whether to delete the specific message or a general user preference setting within the VVM client application settings.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be further adapted to allow a user to access and utilize metadata associated with a voice message for other applications. For example a user may be able to 1 copy the details of the depositor sender of a voicemail into his local contacts 2 reply to the depositor sender of a voicemail via sms mms or direct call 3 forward the voice message via email etc.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be further adapted to communicate with additional service providers such as advertising servers social network servers text transcription servers or any other relevant service provider. The VVM client application may communicate with these service providers via API s provided by said service providers and may include or be adapted to retrieve the appropriate protocols for these communications. The VVM client application may be adapted to retrieve from these service providers data relating to voicemails stored on the remote device such as further contact details and to associate this data with the relevant voice message. For example the VVM client application may correlate data associated with a voice message such as the origin with data contained in a profile stored on a social network server and may be adapted to associate other data contained in the same profile such as a profile picture with the specific voice message. Similarly a contact name associated with a voicemail may be correlated with a facebook profile for example. In this fashion a user may be displayed a current profile picture from facebook of the depositor of a voicemail aside the listing of the stored voicemail.

For a detailed description of the interfacing between a communication application client application and social networking service providers please refer to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 255 113 filed by the inventors of the present invention Titled System Method Circuit and Associated Software for Augmenting Contact Details Stored on a Communication Device with Data Relating to the Contact Contained on Social Networking Sites . The 113 application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present description.

The VVM client application may also be adapted to provide for a user to create edit delete an outgoing message Outgoing message a message that is played to a third party caller who is directed to the user s voicemail prior to allowing him her to record a voicemail often referred to as the greeting . The VVM client application may be adapted to allow a user to edit and listen to the new outgoing message multiple times until the user is satisfied and indicates to the application that the outgoing message is ready or confirmed at which time the VVM client application may send the new outgoing message to the VVM server side component s immediately or during the next synchronization. The VVM client application may be further adapted to store multiple outgoing messages on the remote device which outgoing messages may be sent to the voicemail server upon request from the user. For example the user may store a temporary I am out of the country outgoing message on the remote device and instruct the VVM client application each time he she goes out of the country to send the stored I am out of the country outgoing message to the voicemail server.

The VVM client application may also include an option for a user to disable enable the application. For example when roaming or when interested in conserving battery power. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include an option to automatically disable itself when the remote device is roaming .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be preloaded ROM UDA or MMC on a remote device when a user acquires it. The VVM client application may be preloaded by the cellular network operator as an application or preloaded by the remote device manufacturer as part of the remote device delivered to the operator.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may be installed on an existing remote device Over The Air OTA i.e. via remote communication or by any other media such as via a usb cable. When being installed OTA the user may receive a link via SMS to download the VVM client application may be directed to install the application through the operator web WAP portal or by any other suitable means. The VVM client application may be pre programmed with instructions on how to install itself on a remote device including another or a previous version of a VVM client application.

The VVM client application can be preconfigured to work with a specific voicemail server before being installed on a remote device. Alternatively operational parameters related to a specific voicemail server such as server IP username or password may be acquired by the VVM client application from a VVM server side component or a third party. The identity of and parameters for communication with the VVM server side component or third party may be pre programmed into the VVM client application and or may be sent to the application by a server side component via SMS or any other management protocol. This may also be done via standard management mechanisms such as OMA DM server that may be operated by the cellular operator the VVM client application provider a device vendor or any other entity. The VVM client application may acquire said parameters 1 upon the first instancement of the application 2 periodically 3 when prompted by the user 4 when receiving a notification that a parameter has been updated and or 5 when the VVM application recognizes that a parameter update may be necessary for example as part of a troubleshooting process when a connection is unavailable .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may include a VVM server side component interface module adapted to interface with VVM server side components over a data link. The interface module may use interface parameters stored on a configuration file in order to determine a protocol for establishing and maintaining communication with VVM server side components. Since different voicemail servers provide different APIs using different protocols for interfacing with their voicemail systems different protocols may be required when communicating with different voicemail systems and or their respective VVM server side components. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM may also support various types of VVM server side components in parallel.

The configuration data associated with a VVM client application on a given remote device may be remotely swapped or edited using a configuration sms or any other management protocol. This may also be done via standard management mechanisms such as OMA DM server that may be operated by the cellular operator the VVM client application provider a device vendor or any other entity. A cellular operator providing voicemail server functionality in accordance with embodiments of the present invention or a VVM server side component associated with it may send a customized configuration sms to the remote device which customized configuration sms may provide the VVM client application with configuration data corresponding to the operator s voicemail server protocols. According to further embodiments of the present invention the VVM client application may initiate an update of the VVM client application version periodically and or upon receiving a notification from a server side component that an update is available.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM client application user interface may include part or all of the following exemplary functionalities 

According to some embodiments of the present invention a VVM network support may include part or all of the following exemplary characteristics capabilities variants 

The following are some illustrative examples of operations of a VVM system when integrated into specific cellular operating systems according to some specific embodiments of the present invention. These examples are presented to further elucidate certain aspects of the present invention and as such should not be considered to encompass the full scope of the present invention. The following examples may be best understood with reference to screenshots 1 15 in which screenshots 1 6 illustrate exemplary Symbian screen shots screenshots 7 9 illustrate exemplary Blackberry screen shots screenshots 10 11 illustrate exemplary Windows Mobile screen shots screenshots 12 13 illustrate exemplary Message Handling screen shots and screenshots 14 15 illustrate exemplary Greeting Provisioning screen shots.

When a new message is deposited in the user s voice mailbox a silent SMS SMS Zero notification alerts the VVM client application of a status change. The VVM client application may as a result retrieve the message from the server with no user interaction Synchronization . Once the message has been downloaded to the remote device the user may be notified by the visual voicemail client application that he she has a new voice message examples shown in screenshots 1 4 7 . Pressing the SHOW key bottom left may lead to an INBOX view examples shown in screenshots 2 5 8 10 of all new and previous messages. Each message may bare the following information an icon identifying message status new or listened CLI or name as retrieved from phone address book time of message leaving and message length. Selecting one of the messages may lead to a PLAY screen examples shown in screenshots 3 6 9 11 where message details may appear again. Pressing left or right key may move to next or previous messages respectively. Pressing SELECT key again may start the play of the message with the ability to move forward and backward using the left and right key respectively. The message may be played in the earphone mode and the user may press the right key to activate in speaker mode.

Once having selected a specific voice message within the INBOX pressing the OPTIONS key may lead the user to the MESSAGE HANDLING screen examples shown in screenshots 12 13 . Selecting ADD TO CONTACTS may allow the user to save the details of the message origination in his her local contacts. Selecting REPLY may allow a user to reply to the originator of a voicemail via sms or mms. Selecting FORWARD may allow a user to forward the voice message to another user via voicemail sms email etc. Selecting DELETE may delete the message from the local storage and the server storage. Selecting VVM SETTINGS may lead the user to a SETTINGS screen where he she may be able to modify the system settings.

Within the SETTINGS screen selecting OUT GOING MESSAGE or GREETING may lead the user to a GREETING screen examples shown in screenshots 14 15 . Within the GREETING screen the user may be able to listen record delete new greetings and select an active greeting to be used currently. Once the user has confirmed his current greeting choice the VVM client application may synchronize with the voicemail server and replace the old greeting with the new one so when a new caller is directed to the user s voicemail he she will be welcomed by the new message. Multiple greetings handling can also be provided in various situations requiring different notifications to be applied to the voicemail.

An additional option available in the setting menu is to disable enable the VVM client application. This option is for users who wish to disable the VVM system temporarily like in a roaming situation.

The present invention can be practiced by employing conventional tools methodology and components. Accordingly the details of any such tool component and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be recognized that the present invention may be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth.

It should also be understood by one of skill in the art that some of the functions described as being performed by a specific component of the system may be performed by a different component of the system in other embodiments of this invention.

In the description and claims of embodiments of the present invention each of the words comprise include and have and forms thereof are not necessarily limited to members in a list with which the words may be associated.

Only exemplary embodiments of the present invention and but a few examples of its versatility are shown and described in the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the present invention is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concept as expressed herein.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

