---

title: Electronic device and method for extracting encrypted message
abstract: A method of an electronic device is provided. The method includes generating a key code by receiving a selection on at least one area from among areas of an image displayed, decrypting an encrypted message included in the image by using the generated key code, and determining whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether a hash code for the decrypted message is identical to a hash code for inputted text information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602286&OS=09602286&RS=09602286
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09602286
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140430
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Aug. 22 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2013 0099894 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and method for extracting an encrypted message.

As functions of an electronic device evolve after important information is inserted into an image file in a way other people cannot notice a message inserted into the image file may be extracted if necessary. For example after inserting important information into an electronic file through watermark technique a user may extract the inserted information by using the electronic device.

However user friendly extraction methods have not been developed. For example in an electronic device according to the related art a set password needs to be entered or unique information of an electronic device is required in order to extract a message inserted into an image file.

Therefore a need exists for methods of extracting unique information stored in an image that ensure security e.g. important information stored in an image is not easily exposed and that are user friendly.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a device and method for providing a user friendly decoding way with improved security by confirming a message inserted into an image when a set area of an image is inputted according to a set order.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a device and method for improving security and user convenience by easily storing important information with a simple setting of a touch area and a touch order when predetermined information is stored in an image.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an operating method of an electronic device is provided. The operating method includes generating a key code by receiving a selection on at least one area from among areas of an image displayed decrypting an encrypted message included in the image by using the generated key code and determining whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether a hash code for the decrypted message is identical to a hash code for inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the method may further include receiving a selection on at least one area from among areas of the image generating a key code according to a coordinate of the selected area and a selected order and generating the encrypted message according to a set encryption algorithm by using the generated key code and the inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the method may further include generating a hash code for the inputted text information and inserting the encrypted message and the hash code for the inputted text information into the image through a watermark.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the generating of the key code by receiving the selection on the at least one area from among the areas of the image displayed may include receiving a selection on at least one area from among areas of the image and generating a key code according to a coordinate of the selected area and a selected order of the at least one area.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the decrypting of the encrypted message included in the image by using the generated key code may include decrypting the encrypted message according to a set decryption algorithm by using the generated key code and the decrypted message included in the image.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the method may further include generating a hash code for the decrypted message.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the determining of whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether the hash code for the decrypted message is identical to the hash code for the inputted text information may include determining that the hash code for the decrypted message is not identical to the hash code for the inputted text information and displaying a message that the encrypted message cannot be displayed.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the determining of whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether the hash code for the decrypted message is identical to the hash code for the inputted text information may include determining that the hash code for the decrypted message is not identical to the hash code for the inputted text information and outputting a message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted as voice.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the determining of whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether the hash code for the decrypted message is identical to the hash code for the inputted text information may include determining that the hash code for the decrypted message is identical to the hash code for the inputted text information and displaying the encrypted message.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the determining of whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether the hash code for the decrypted message is identical to the hash code for the inputted text information may include determining that the hash code for the decrypted message is identical to the hash code for the inputted text information and outputting the encrypted message as voice.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a processor configured to generate a key code by receiving a selection on at least one area from among areas of an image displayed to decrypt an encrypted message included in the image by using the generated key code and to determine whether to output the encrypted message by determining whether a hash code for the decrypted message is identical to a hash code for inputted text information and a memory configured to store data controlled by the processor.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the device may further include a display module configured to receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of the image wherein the processor is further configured to generate a key code according to a coordinate of the selected area and a selected order of the at least one area and to generate the encrypted message according to a set encryption algorithm by using the generated key code and the inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the processor may is further configured to generate a hash code for the inputted text information and to insert the encrypted message and the hash code for the inputted text information into the image through a watermark.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the device may further include a display module configured to receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of the image wherein the processor is further configured to generate a key code according to a coordinate of the selected area and a selected order of the at least one area.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the processor may be further configured to decrypt the encrypted message according to a set decryption algorithm by using the generated key code and the decrypted message included in the image.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the processor may generate a hash code for the decrypted message.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the device may further include a display module wherein the processor may be further configured to operatively control the display module to display a message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted if the processor determines that the hash code for the decrypted message is not identical to the hash code for the inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the device may further include a speaker wherein the processor may be further configured to operatively control the speaker to output a message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted as voice if the processor determines that the hash code for the decrypted message is not identical to the hash code for the inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the device may further include a display module wherein the processor may be further configured to operatively control the display module to display the encrypted message if the processor determines that the hash code for the decrypted message is not identical to the hash code for the inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the device may further include a speaker wherein processor may be further configured to operatively control the speaker to output the encrypted message as voice if the processor determines that the hash code for the decrypted message is not identical to the hash code for the inputted text information.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of encrypting data in an electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving data to be encrypted receiving at least one encryption input to an image being displayed by the electronic device generating an encryption key according to respective locations of the at least one encryption input in relation to the image encrypting the data using the encryption key and multiplexing the encrypted data with the image.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of decrypting data in an electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving at least one decryption input to an image being displayed by the electronic device generating a decryption key according to respective locations of the at least one decryption input in relation to the image decrypting encrypted data multiplexed with the image using the decryption key and determining whether to output the encrypted data based on the decrypted data.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a device having a communication function. For example the electronic device may be a combination including at least one of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch smart white appliance e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an artificial intelligence robot a TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system an oven a microwave a washing machine an air purifier and a digital photo frame various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT tomography and ultrasonograph a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or a Google TV an electronic dictionary a vehicle infotainment device electronic equipment for ship e.g. a navigation device for ship and a gyro compass avionics a security device an electronic garment an electronic key a camcorder a game console Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic album part of a furniture or building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device and a projector. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device is not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module and a communication module .

The bus may be a circuit connecting the above mentioned components to each other and delivering a communication e.g. a control message therebetween.

The processor receives a command from the above other components e.g. the memory the user input module the display module and the communication module through the bus interprets the received command and performs operations and data processing in response to the interpreted command.

The memory may store commands or data received from or generated by the processor or the above other components e.g. user input module the display module and the communication module . The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an application programming interface and an application . Each of the above mentioned programming modules may be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for performing operation or functions implemented by the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API and or the application . Additionally the kernel may provide an interface for accessing an individual component of the electronic device from the kernel the middleware the API or the application and controlling or managing such an individual component.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary role for exchanging data between the API or the application and the kernel through communication. Additionally in relation to job requests received from a plurality of applications the middleware may perform a load balancing on the job requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory to at least one application among the plurality of applications .

The API as an interface through which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware may include at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing character control and or the like.

The user input module may receive commands or data from a user and delivers the commands to the processor or the memory via the bus .

The communication module may connect a communication between another electronic device and the electronic device . The communication module may operatively connect a communication between the electronic device and an electronic device a server and or the like. The communication module may support a predetermined short range communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity WiFi BlueTooth BT Near Field Communication NFC and or the like or a predetermined network communication e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wire Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network or Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and or the like . The other electronic device and or electronic device may be identical to e.g. the same type or different from e.g. a different type the electronic device .

Referring to the hardware includes at least one processor a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator a motor and or the like.

The processor e.g. the processor may include at least one Application Processor AP and or at least one Communication Processor CP . As an example the processor may correspond to the processor illustrated in . Although the AP and the CP included in the processor are illustrated in the AP and or the CP may be included in different IC packages. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may be configured with a first processor and a second processor. The first processor may determine whether a state change occurs by using at least one equipped sensor. If the first processor determines that a state change occurs then the first processor may determine whether to transmit the state information to the second processor. Additionally the first processor may determine whether at least one change occurs among position changes altitude changes temperature changes pressure changes humidity changes illumination changes pressure changes and or the like which exceed a predetermined numerical value by using at least one sensor connected to the first processor. Additionally the first processor may detect that a state change switches from a state of more than a predetermined numerical value into a state of less than a predetermined numerical value by using at least one sensor connected to the first processor. Additionally the first processor may detect that a state change switches from a state of more than a predetermined numerical value into a state of less than a predetermined numerical value by using at least one sensor connected to the first processor and then may determine to transmit the state information to the second processor. Additionally the first processor may operate with a power of less than a predetermined value.

The second processor may determine whether to measure a changed position at each set period by using a provided positioning module according to whether the state information is received. Additionally if the state information is not received the second processor may not measure the position even when the next position measuring period at which a position measuring module starts to measure the position arrives. Additionally upon receiving the state information the second processor confirms the next position measuring period for starting to measure the position by using the position measuring module confirms that the next position measuring period for starting to measure the position by using the position measuring module arrives and measures a changed position at the next position measuring period by using the position measuring module. Moreover the second processor may read the state information from the first processor and may confirm the read state information when the next position measuring period arrives. Moreover the second processor may be in one of a wakeup state and a sleep state.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware and or software components connected to the AP by executing an operating system and or an application program and may perform various data processing and operations with multimedia data. As an example the AP may be implemented with System on Chip SoC . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The CP may manage a data link in a communication between an electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware and other electronic devices connected via a network and may convert a communication protocol. As an example the CP may be implemented with SoC. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the CP may perform at least part of a multimedia control function. The CP may perform a distinction and authentication of a terminal in a communication network. For example the CP may perform a distinction and authentication of a terminal in a communication network by using a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . Additionally the CP may provide services for example a voice call a video call a text message packet data and or the like to a user.

Additionally the CP may control data transmission of the communication module . As illustrated in components such as the CP the power management module or the memory are separated from the AP . However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented including some of the above mentioned components e.g. the CP .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP or the CP may load commands and or data which are received from a nonvolatile memory or at least one of other components connected thereto into a volatile memory and may process such commands and or data. Furthermore the AP or the CP may store data received from or generated by at least one of other components in a nonvolatile memory.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of an electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . As an example the memory may correspond to the memory illustrated in . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. Dynamic RAM DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and or the like and a non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory and or the like According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory may have a form of Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure Digital Mini SD extreme Digital xD or memory stick. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the memory may store information on a state switching into a state of less than a predetermined numerical value.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module and or an RF module . As an example the communication module may correspond to the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include a WiFi module BT module a GPS module or a NFC module. For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function by using a wireless frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card and or a modem for connecting the hardware to a network e.g. Internet LAN WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network POTS and or the like .

The RF module may be responsible for data transmission for example the transmission of an RF signal or a called electrical signal. Although not shown in the drawings the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like. The RF module may further include components for transmitting receiving electromagnetic waves on free space in a wireless communication for example conductors or conducting wires.

The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K a Ultra Violet UV sensor M and or the like. The sensor module measures physical quantities or detects an operating state of an electronic device thereby converting the measured or detected information into electrical signals. Additionally alternately the sensor module may include an E nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown or an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor therein.

The user input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key an ultrasonic input device and or the like. As an example the user input module may correspond to the user input module illustrated in . As an example the touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of a capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic method. Additionally the touch panel may further include a controller not shown . In the case of the capacitive method both direct touch and proximity recognition are possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. If the touch panel includes a tactile layer the touch panel may provide a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented through a method similar or identical to that of receiving a user touch input or an additional sheet for recognition. As an example a keypad or a touch key may be implemented as the key . The ultrasonic input device as a device confirming data by detecting sound waves through a microphone e.g. the mike in a terminal may provide wireless recognition through a pen generating ultrasonic signals. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the hardware may receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server connected to the hardware through the communication module .

The display module may include a panel and or a hologram . As an example the display module may correspond to the display module illustrated in . The panel may include a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED and or the like. As an example the panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be configured with one module. The hologram may show three dimensional images e.g. in the air by using the interference of light. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display module may further include a control circuit to control the panel and or the hologram .

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature sub . Additionally or alternately the interface may include a SD Multi Media Card MMC not shown an Infrared Data Association IrDA not shown and or the like.

The audio codec may convert voice into electrical signal and vice versa. The audio codec may convert voice information inputted through or outputted from a speaker a receiver an earphone or a mike .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the camera module as a device for capturing an image and video may include at least one image sensor e.g. a front lens or a rear lens an image Signal Processor SP not shown a flash LED not shown and or the like.

The power management module may manage the power of the hardware . Although not shown in the drawings the power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC a battery fuel gauge and or the like.

As an example PMIC may be built in an IC or SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be classified as a wired method and a wireless method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent overvoltage and or overcurrent flow from charger. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC component for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. As an example the wireless charging method may include or otherwise correspond to a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method an electromagnetic method and or the like. As an example the charger IC may include additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier circuit and or the like.

A battery gauge may measure the remaining amount of the battery or a voltage current or temperature thereof during charging. The battery may generate electricity and supplies power. For example the battery may be a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the hardware or part thereof e.g. the AP for example a booting state a message state a charging state and or the like. The motor may convert electrical signals into mechanical vibration. The MCU may control the sensor module .

Although not shown in the drawings the hardware may include a processing device e.g. a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing device for mobile TV support may process media data according to the standards such as Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and or the like.

The names of the above mentioned components in hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may vary according to types of an electronic device. Hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured including at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components. Additionally some of components in hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured as one entity so that functions of previous corresponding components are performed identically.

Referring to a programming module may include a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API and or an application .

The programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic device e.g. the memory of . At least part of the programming module may be configured with software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The programming module may include an Operating System OS controlling a resource relating to an electronic device e.g. the electronic device implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware or various applications e.g. the application running on the OS. For example the OS may include Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada and or the like.

The kernel e.g. the kernel may include a system resource manager and or a device driver . As an example although not illustrated in the system resource manager may include a process management unit a memory management unit a file system management unit and or the like. The system resource manager may perform control allocation and or recovery of a system resource. As an example although not illustrated in the device driver may include a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a sharing memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver an audio driver and or the like. Additionally according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the device driver may include an Inter Processing Communication IPC driver not shown .

The middleware may include a plurality of pre implemented modules for providing functions that the application commonly requires. Additionally the middleware may provide functions through the API to allow the application to efficiently use a limited system resource in an electronic device. For example as illustrated in the middleware e.g. the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager a security manager and or the like.

The runtime library may include a library module in which a compiler is used to add a new function through programming language while the application is executed. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the runtime library may perform functions relating to an input output memory management calculation operation and or the like.

The application manager may manage a life cycle of at least one application among the applications . The window manager may manage a GUI resource using a screen.

The multimedia manager may recognize a format necessary for playing various media files and may perform encoding or decoding on a media file by using codec appropriate for a corresponding format.

The resource manager may manage a resource such as source code memory or storage space of at least one application among the applications .

The power manager manages a battery or power in operation with Basic Input Output System BIOD and provides power information necessary for an operation.

The database manager may perform a management operation to generate search and or change a database used for at least one application among the applications .

The package manager may manage the installation and or update of an application distributed in a package file format.

The notification manager may display and or notify events such as arrival messages appointments proximity alerts and or the like in a manner that is not disruptive to a user.

The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to a user or a user interface relating thereto.

The security manager may provide a general security function necessary for system security or user authentication.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when an electronic device e.g. the electronic device has a call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device.

The middleware may generate and use a new middleware module through various function combinations of the above mentioned internal component modules. The middleware may provide modules specified according to types of OS so as to provide distinctive functions. Additionally the middleware may delete some of existing components and or add new components dynamically. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure some of the components listed may be omitted other components may be added and or components having different names and performing similar functions may be substituted.

The API e.g. the API may be provided as a set of API programming functions with a different configuration according OS. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in the case of Android or iOS for example one API set may be provided by each platform and in the case of Tizen for example more than two API sets may be provided.

The application e.g. the application for example may include a preloaded application or a third part application.

At least part of the programming module may be implemented using a command stored in a non transitory computer readable storage media. When the command is executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor may perform a function corresponding to the command. As an example the non transitory computer readable storage media may include the memory . As an example at least part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . As an example at least part of the programming module may include a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process to perform at least one function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure names of components of a programming module e.g. the programming module may vary according to types of OS. Additionally according to various embodiments of the present disclosure a programming module may be configured including at least one of the above mentioned components or additional other components.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a first processor a second processor a plurality of sensors and a position measuring module.

First the plurality of sensors may detect a state change of the electronic device. More specifically the plurality of sensors may detect a change in state of the electronic device. The plurality of sensors may include motion sensors such as an acceleration sensor a gyroscope sensor a magnetic sensor and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the plurality of sensors may be gesture sensors including a proximity sensor and an infrared ray sensor. Additionally the plurality of sensors may be light sensors including an ambient light sensor an ultra violet sensor and an illumination sensor.

Additionally or alternatively the plurality of sensors may be environment sensors including a temperature humidity sensor a volatile organic compounds sensor a carbon dioxide sensor and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the plurality of sensor may be atmospheric pressure sensors including a barometer an altimeter and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the plurality of sensors may be touch pressure sensors including a strain gauge sensor a pressure sensor a fingerprint sensor and or the like.

The first processor may determine whether a state change in an electronic device occurs by using the plurality of sensors connected to the first processor. More specifically the first processor determines whether at least one change exists among position changes altitude changes temperature changes pressure changes humidity changes illumination changes and pressure changes and or the like which exceed a predetermined numerical value by using the plurality of sensors connected to the first processor.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if a state change is determined to have occurred in the electronic device the first processor may determine whether to transmit state information to the second processor. More specifically even when a state change in the electronic device is determined to have occurred the first processor may determine whether to store the state information or whether to transmit the state information to the second processor.

For example when the first processor detects that a state change switches from a state of more than a predetermined numerical value into a state of less than a predetermined numerical value by using the plurality of sensors connected to the first processor the first processor may store state information on switching into a state of less than a numerical value set by the first processor. However when the first processor detects that a state change switches from a state of less than a predetermined numerical value into a state of more than a predetermined numerical value by using the plurality of sensors connected to the first processor the first processor may determine to transmit state information to the second processor.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a changed state of the electronic device switches into a state of less than a set numerical value because the first processor substantially determines that a position change does not exist measuring a position change of the electronic device by using the second processor is unnecessary. However when a changed state of the electronic device switches into a state of more than a set numerical value the first processor may determine to transmit state information to the second processor so as to allow the second processor to measure a changed position of the electronic device.

The second processor may determine whether to measure a changed position at each set period by using the position measuring module connected to the second processor on the basis of whether the state information is received from the first processor.

First if the state information is not received from the first processor the second processor may not measure a position even when the next position measuring period at which the position measuring module connected to the second processor starts to measure a position arrives. The reason is that when the state information is not received from the first processor because no position change of the electronic device exists while the second processor is in a sleep state consuming power of the electronic device by waking up the second processor in the sleep state is unnecessary. If the state information is not received from the first processor the second processor is not required to measure a position by using the position measuring module connected to the second processor when the second processor is in a wake up state e.g. it is unnecessary to waste power .

If the state information is received from the first processor the second processor may confirm the next position measuring period for starting to measure a position by using the position measuring module. Thereafter the second processor may measure a changed position by using the position measuring module at the next position measuring period.

Moreover the second processor may read the state information from the first processor and may confirm the read state information when the next position measuring period arrives. The reason is that an operation for reading updated state information from the first processor consumes less power than an operation for directly receiving state information from the first processor by the second processor when the next position measuring period arrives.

Additionally if the second processor determines to measure a changed position the second processor may measure the changed position by using the position measuring module at the next position measuring period among set periods.

The position measuring module may measure a position of the electronic device under control of the second processor. The position measuring module may use a measurement method of Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS including GPS Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS Beidou Galileo Quasi Zenith Satellite System QZSS and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the position measuring module may use a measurement method such as WIFI Positioning System WPS Cell Positioning Observed Time Difference Of Arrival OTDOA and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the position measuring module may use a measurement method of Fingerprinting Solution based on a Radio Map or an Access Point AP list and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the position measuring module may use a measurement method of a tagging based Proximity Solution using NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID Bluetooth Low Energy BLE and or the like.

As mentioned above if a set condition is satisfied after a state change of the electronic device is determined the first processor of the electronic device may measure a changed position of the electronic device. Therefore the current consumption of the electronic device may be reduced.

Referring to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may receive text information. More specifically the electronic device may receive text information to be inserted into an image e.g. important information to be inserted into an image . For example when a password that a user uses for a bank A is 1234 the electronic device may receive 12345 the password of the bank A.

Thereafter in order to insert the inputted text information into a displayed image the electronic device may receive at least one area from among areas of the displayed image. For example in order to encrypt the inputted text information the electronic device may receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of the displayed image.

For example as illustrated in an example in which the electronic device receives a touch input in the order of the right eye the nose and the left eye of a koala displayed on a touch screen is described.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the above example when receiving a selection on the right eye of the koala for the first selection time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the right eye is selected first. In the same manner when receiving a selection on the nose of the koala for the second selection time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the nose of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the nose is selected second. In the same manner when receiving a selection on the left eye of the koala for the third selection time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the left eye is selected third.

Thereafter the electronic device may generate a key code in a set format according to an area and order that the displayed image is selected. For example if a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala is 57 a set coordinate value corresponding to the nose of the koala is 69 a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala is 81 a set sequence value is 59 when a selection is made first a set sequence value is 38 when a selection is made second and a set sequence value is 50 when a selection is made third is described.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the above example if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate 57 and 59 e.g. key codes corresponding to the first input 69 and 38 e.g. key codes corresponding to the second input or 81 and 50 e.g. key codes corresponding to the third input . For example the electronic device may generate key codes 57 59 69 38 81 and 50 finally by combining the generated key codes.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by sequentially combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate key codes 57 69 81 59 38 and 50 finally.

Thereafter the electronic device may additionally perform an operation for adjusting a bit size to allow the generated key code to be appropriately used for an encryption algorithm. More specifically the electronic device may use the generated key code in the current state of the generated key code or may adjust a bit size and then use adjusted key code. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may use the generated key codes 57 59 69 38 81 and 50 in the current state of the key code or may generate a key code in a format such as 0X21F5 in which a bit size is adjusted to allow the generated key code to be appropriately used for an encryption algorithm.

Referring to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may generate an encrypted message from the inputted text information and generated key code by using a set encryption algorithm. More specifically the electronic device may generate an encrypted message from the inputted text information and generated key code by using a set encryption algorithm.

For example if the text information inputted from the electronic device is information A bank 1234 and a key code generated according to a coordinate and order of a selected area is 0X21F5 the electronic device may generate an encrypted message 0X441E2 according to a set encryption algorithm.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the scope of the encryption algorithm that the electronic device uses is not limited and a format of an encrypted message may vary according to a set encryption algorithm. For example although the electronic device generates an encrypted message according to a set encryption algorithm because text information to be encrypted regardless of a format of an encrypted message is an important issue the present disclosure is not limited thereto.

Thereafter the electronic device may simultaneously generate a hash code for inputted text information. For example when confirming that an encrypted message 0X441E2 is generated according to a set encryption algorithm the electronic device may simultaneously generate an arbitrary hash code 3AA2 for inputted text information.

Thereafter the electronic device may insert an encryption message and hash code generated according to a set encryption algorithm into a displayed image through watermark technique. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may convert the inputted text information A bank 1234 into an arbitrary encrypted message 0X441E2 and insert the encrypted message at the bottom of the displayed image.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure although the encrypted message 0X441E2 is visible for the convenience of understanding to indicate that an encrypted message is inserted as illustrated in because watermark technology is substantially used the encrypted message may be invisible.

Referring to the electronic device may display an image where an encrypted message is inserted on a touch screen thereof. More specifically the electronic device may display the image in which an encrypted message is inserted and which is stored in the electronic device or may receive an image in which an encrypted message is inserted from another electronic device and display the received image.

Thereafter the electronic device may receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of the displayed image. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may sequentially receive selections on the right ear of the koala the right eye of the koala and the left eye of the koala from among areas of a displayed koala area.

Thereafter the electronic device may generate a key code set according to the coordinates and selected order of at least one selected area from among areas of a displayed area. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above when receiving a selection on the right ear of the koala for the first time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the right ear of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the right ear is selected first. In the same manner when receiving a selection on the right eye of the koala for the second time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the right eye is selected second. In the same manner when receiving a selection on the left eye of the koala for the third time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the left eye is selected third.

Thereafter the electronic device may generate a key code in a set format according to an area and order that the displayed image is selected. For example the case that a set coordinate value corresponding to the right ear of the koala is 1 a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala is 2 a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala is 3 a set sequence value is 4 when a selection is made first a set sequence value is 5 when a selection is made second and a set sequence value is 6 when a selection is made third is exemplarily described.

In the above embodiment if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate 1 and 4 e.g. key codes corresponding to the first input 2 and 5 e.g. key codes corresponding to the second input or 3 and 6 e.g. key codes corresponding to the third input . For example the electronic device may generate key codes 1 4 2 5 3 and 6 finally by combining the generated key codes.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by sequentially combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate key codes 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 finally.

Thereafter the electronic device may additionally perform an operation for adjusting a bit size to allow the generated key code to be appropriately used for a decryption algorithm. More specifically the electronic device may use the generated key code in the current state of the key code or may adjust a bit size and then use adjusted key code.

Thereafter the electronic device may decrypt the inserted encrypted message and the generated key code according to a set decryption algorithm. More specifically the electronic device may receive an encrypted message inserted into an image and a selection on an area of a displayed image and then decrypt the encrypted message through a decryption algorithm set using a generated key code.

For example if an encrypted message inserted into a displayed image is a message 441E2 and a key code generated according to the coordinate and order of a selected area is 0X13A2 the electronic device may decrypt the encrypted message 441E2 as a message Df3qeqe according to a set decryption algorithm.

Thereafter the electronic device generates a hash code for the decrypted message and then determines whether the generated hash code is identical to a hash code for text information inserted into an image. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above the electronic device may generate a hash code for the decrypted message Df3qeqe and then may determine whether the generated hash code is identical to a hash code for an input text inserted together with the encrypted message.

If the hash code for text information is determined not to be identical to the hash code for the decrypted message the electronic device may display a message e.g. a notification that the encrypted message cannot be outputted or output the message e.g. the notification as voice. For example as illustrated in if the hash code for text information is determined not to be identical to the hash code for the decrypted message the electronic device may display an guide message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted on a touch screen of the electronic device or output the guide message as voice through a speaker.

Referring to the electronic device may receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of a displayed image. For example as illustrated in the electronic device may sequentially receive selections on the right eye of the koala the nose of the koala and the left eye of the koala from among areas of a displayed koala area.

Thereafter the electronic device may generate a key code set according to the coordinates and selected order of at least one selected area from among the areas of the displayed area. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when receiving a selection on the right eye of the koala for the first selection time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the right eye is selected first. In the same manner when receiving a selection on the nose of the koala for the second selection time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the nose of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the nose is selected second. In the same manner when receiving a selection on the left eye of the koala for the third selection time the electronic device reads a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala in an area of a touch screen and simultaneously reads a set sequence value representing that the left eye is selected third.

Thereafter the electronic device may generate a key code in a set format according to an area and order that the displayed image is selected. For example the case that a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala is 10 a set coordinate value corresponding to the nose of the koala is 20 a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala is 30 a set sequence value is 40 when a selection is made first a set sequence value is 50 when a selection is made second and a set sequence value is 60 when a selection is made third is exemplarily described.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate 10 and 40 e.g. key codes corresponding to the first input 20 and 50 e.g. key codes corresponding to the second input or 30 and 60 e.g. key codes corresponding to the third input . For example the electronic device may generate key codes 10 40 20 50 30 and 60 finally by combining the generated key codes.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by sequentially combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate key codes 10 20 30 40 50 and 60 finally.

Additionally the electronic device may perform an operation for adjusting a bit size to allow the generated key code to be appropriately used for a decryption algorithm. More specifically the electronic device may use the generated key code in the current state of the generated key code or may adjust a bit size and then use adjusted key code.

Thereafter the electronic device may decrypt the inserted encrypted message and the generated key code according to a set decryption algorithm. More specifically the electronic device may receive an encrypted message inserted into an image and a selection on an area of a displayed image and then decrypt the encrypted message through a decryption algorithm set using a generated key code.

For example if an encrypted message inserted into a displayed image is a message 441E2 and a key code generated according to the coordinate and order of a selected area is 0X21F5 the electronic device may decrypt the encrypted message 441E2 as a message 123456 according to a set decryption algorithm.

Thereafter the electronic device generates a hash code for the decrypted message and then determines whether the generated hash code is identical to a hash code for text information inserted into an image. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above the electronic device may generate a hash code for the decrypted message 123456 and then may determine whether the generated hash code is identical to a hash code for an input text inserted together with the encrypted message.

If the hash code for text information is determined not to be identical to the hash code for the decrypted message the electronic device may display a decrypted message or output the decrypted message as voice. For example as illustrated in if the hash code for text information is determined not to be identical to the hash code for the decrypted message the electronic device may display a notification message that the encrypted message is 123456 on a touch screen of the electronic device or output the notification message as voice through a speaker.

Referring to the electronic device may encrypt a text inputted by selecting at least one area from among areas of a displayed image or may decrypt an encrypted message. More specifically in order to decrypt an encrypted message after an arbitrary area is sequentially selected to encrypt an initially selected text the electronic device should receive an initially selected area sequentially in order for normal decryption.

Accordingly when a displayed image is selected for encryption and decryption the electronic device may display a selected area. For example if the right eye of the koala the nose of the koala and the left eye of the koala are sequentially selected from the image of the koala displayed on a touch screen of the electronic device the electronic device may display the selected areas.

For example as illustrated in if the right eye of the koala the nose of the koala and the left eye of the koala are sequentially selected from the image of the koala displayed on the touch screen of the electronic device the electronic device may display the selected areas of the koala according to a set size and shape. The reason for displaying the selected areas according to a set size and shape is that in order to decrypt an encrypted message after an arbitrary area is sequentially selected to encrypt an initially selected text the electronic device should receive an initially selected area sequentially in order for normal decryption. Accordingly because an area that a user selects from a displayed image is displayed according to a set size and shape the user may confirm a touch area by the naked area.

Referring to at operation the electronic device receives text information to be encrypted. For example if a user inserts a password 1234 for a bank A into a specific image the electronic device may receive text information 1234 .

Thereafter at operation the electronic device may receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of a displayed image. For example in order to encrypt the inputted text information the electronic device may receive a selection on at least one area from among areas of a displayed image.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device generates a key code according to the coordinate and order of the selected area. For example the case that a set coordinate value corresponding to the right ear of the koala is 1 a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala is 2 a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala is 3 a set sequence value is 4 when a selection is made first a set sequence value is 5 when a selection is made second and a set sequence value is 6 when a selection is made third is exemplarily described. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate 1 and 4 e.g. key codes corresponding to the first input 2 and 5 e.g. key codes corresponding to the second input or 3 and 6 e.g. key codes corresponding to the third input . For example the electronic device may generate key codes 1 4 2 5 3 and 6 finally by combining the generated key codes.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device generates an encrypted message according to a set encryption algorithm by using the generated key code and the inputted text information. The scope of the encryption algorithm that the electronic device uses is not limited and a format of an encrypted message may vary according to a set encryption algorithm. For example although the electronic device generates an encrypted message according to a set encryption algorithm because text information to be encrypted regardless of a format of an encrypted message is an important issue various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited thereto.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device inserts the encrypted message and a hash code for the inputted text information into an image through watermark. Accordingly even when the image displayed by the electronic device is open to a third party the third party may not recognize the encrypted message inserted through watermark technology.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device generates a key code by selecting at least one area from among the areas of the image. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the operation for generating a key code by the electronic device may be identical to operation .

Thereafter at operation the electronic device decrypts the encrypted message included in the image by using the generated key code. More specifically the electronic device may receive an encrypted message inserted into an image and a selection on an area of a displayed image and then decrypt the encrypted message through a decryption algorithm set using a generated key code.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device determines whether a hash code for the decrypted message is identical to a hash code for the inputted text information. More specifically the electronic device may insert a hash code for an inputted text and an encrypted message into an image during an encryption operation and then may determine whether the hash code for the inputted text is identical to a hash code for a decrypted message.

If the electronic device determines that the hash code for the inputted text is identical to the hash code for the decrypted message at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device provides a notification of the encrypted message. For example the electronic device may display the encrypted message. As another example the electronic device may output the encrypted message as voice e.g. through a speaker . As another example the electronic device may display the encrypted message and outputs the encrypted message as voice simultaneously. For example the electronic device may display a notification message that encrypted message is OOO on a touch screen of the electronic device and output the notification message as voice through a speaker.

In contrast if the electronic device determines that the hash code for the inputted text is not identical to the hash code for the decrypted message at operation then the electronic device may proceed to operation at which the electronic device may display a message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted. As another example the electronic device may output the message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted as voice e.g. through a speaker . As another example the electronic device may display a message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted and outputs the encrypted message as voice simultaneously. For example the electronic device may display a notification message that encrypted message cannot be outputted on a touch screen of the electronic device and outputs the notification message as voice through a speaker.

Referring to at operation the electronic device generates a key code by selecting at least one area from among areas of a displayed image. For example the case that a set coordinate value corresponding to the right ear of the koala is 10 a set coordinate value corresponding to the right eye of the koala is 20 a set coordinate value corresponding to the left eye of the koala is 30 a set sequence value is 40 when a selection is made first a set sequence value is 50 when a selection is made second and a set sequence value is 60 when a selection is made third is exemplarily described. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure using the example above if the electronic device is set to generate a key code by combining each of the coordinate values and the sequence orders the electronic device may generate 10 and 40 e.g. key codes corresponding to the first input 20 and 50 e.g. key codes corresponding to the second input or 30 and 60 e.g. key codes corresponding to the third input . For example the electronic device may generate key codes 10 40 20 50 30 and 60 finally by combining the generated key codes.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device decrypts the encrypted message included in the image by using the generated key code. More specifically the electronic device may receive an encrypted message inserted into an image and a selection on an area of a displayed image and then decrypt the encrypted message through a decryption algorithm set using a generated key code.

Thereafter at operation the electronic device determines whether a hash code for the decrypted message is identical to a hash code for the inputted text information so as to determine whether to output the encrypted message. Thereafter if the hash code for the decrypted message is determined to be identical to the hash code for the inputted text information the electronic device displays the encrypted message and outputs the encrypted message as voice simultaneously. However if the hash code for the decrypted message is determined not to be identical to the hash code for the inputted text information the electronic device displays a message that the encrypted message cannot be outputted and outputs the message as voice simultaneously.

It will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure according to the claims and description in the specification can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Any such software may be stored in a non transient computer readable storage medium. The non transient computer readable storage medium stores one or more programs software modules the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors in an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform a method of the present disclosure. Any such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a CD DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape or the like. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are various embodiments of machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs comprising instructions that when executed implement various embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly various embodiments provide a program comprising code for implementing apparatus or a method as claimed in any one of the claims of this specification and a machine readable storage storing such a program. Still further such programs may be conveyed electronically via any medium such as a communication signal carried over a wired or wireless connection and various embodiments suitably encompass the same.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

