---

title: Digital content curation and distribution system and method
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems and method for curating and distributing digital content; including: digital video, music, pictures, etc. For example, presented herein are systems and methods for providing a digital content program, including a plurality of continuously provided digital assets streamed over a digital content platform. Example embodiments include: (a) curating a plurality of assets; (b) selecting a subset of assets from the plurality of assets, based on similarity metrics between assets; and (c) ordering the subset of assets into a digital content program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524340&OS=09524340&RS=09524340
owner: IRIS.TV, INC.
number: 09524340
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140121
---
This application claims benefit as a Continuation of application Ser. No. 13 452 505 filed Apr. 20 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 635 220 which claims benefit of Provisional Application No. 61 478 354 filed Apr. 22 2011 the entire contents of the foregoing are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 120. The applicant hereby rescinds any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application s or the prosecution history thereof and advises the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application s .

The present invention is related to digital content distribution systems. is a high level diagram illustrating a typical digital content distribution system . In practice a content provider stores a plurality of digital content assets in an asset library . As used herein the term asset broadly includes any machine readable and or machine storable files containing digital content or a pointer placeholder unique reference locator URL or equivalent means for redirecting an end user to the digital content. Digital content may include any digital video music pictures or equivalents thereof. The end user employs an end user device to access the assets via a distribution platform such as a website mobile application TV widget or equivalents thereof. The end user may use a search index engine to query the asset library for an asset of interest. Search queries are typically conducted based on tags keywords and or associated metadata linked to individual assets. Recommendation engines are also known which may recommend assets to the end user based on the tags keywords and or associated metadata.

However content providers lack a mechanism for curating and programming their asset libraries in order to distribute content in meaningful and engaging ways.

Disclosed herein are systems and method for curating and distributing digital content including digital video music pictures etc. For example presented herein are systems and methods for providing a digital content program or playlist including a plurality of continuously provided digital assets streamed over a digital content platform. Example embodiments include a curating a plurality of assets b selecting a subset of assets from the plurality of assets based on similarity metrics between assets and c ordering the subset of assets into a digital content program.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for curating and distributing digital content such as digital video music pictures and equivalents thereof. For example presented herein are systems and methods for providing a digital content program or playlist including a plurality of continuously provided digital assets streamed over a digital content platform. Example embodiments include a curating a plurality of assets b selecting a subset of assets from the plurality of assets based on similarity metrics between assets and c ordering the subset of assets into a digital content program.

In one embodiment there is provided a system wherein assets are identified and collected by one or more content providers end users and or service providers. The identified and collected assets are then stored in a database where additional information is collected and attributed to each individual asset. For example such additional information may include asset data such as tags metadata end user behavior and considerations taxonomy descriptors keywords labels ratings production data production costs distribution restrictions rights promotional data distribution data monetization data syndication data closed captioning data aggregate user interactions age of the asset ratings by curators or third party sources asset viewing history asset viewer count asset flagging asset share history length context content within the asset and any combinations or equivalents thereof. Such asset data may be provided by 1 curation programs established by a service provider 2 importation from the asset provider and or 3 aggregate user behavior and or interaction with the asset. The database of assets may then be accessed by an end user via a programmable user interface. However prior to distribution to the end user the assets can be further curated to establish a presentation order. For example in one embodiment one or more assets can be processed through a similarity metrics engine wherein one or more assets are tested against each other to identify similarities between the assets. As such a sub group or subset of assets may be identified selected and or organized for distribution. Further multiple layers of curation and filtering may be applied to rank order re rank and or re order the assets prior to distribution.

System of however differs from system of in that a service provider which may be an independent system component or a system component within and or controlled by content provider performs the function of curating and organizing assets within asset library . The service provider ultimately prepares an asset program to be provided directly or indirectly to the distribution platform on the end user device . More specifically in one embodiment the service provider includes a programming engine that curates organizes scores ranks orders and or re orders assets into an asset program based on similarity metrics between assets and or end user behavior.

For example in one embodiment the service provider can curate the assets within asset library to create a directed weighted content graph based on a content taxonomy. The content graph is used to identify a hierarchy of similarities between assets. As such relationships between assets can be established which go beyond dependence on only tags keywords and or metadata. For example assets can be analyzed to identify asset data such as tags metadata end user behavior and considerations taxonomy descriptors keywords labels ratings aggregate user interactions age of the asset ratings by curators or third party sources asset viewing history asset viewer count asset flagging asset share history length context content within the asset and any combinations or equivalents thereof. Such asset data may be collected from sources such as 1 curation programs established by a service provider 2 importation from the asset provider and or 3 aggregate user behavior and or interaction with the asset.

The service provider may also have a direct or indirect link to the end user in order to obtain and or analyze the end user s behavioral information and or profile. For example the service provider may obtain end user behavior or intent information in the form of system data link access data share data search query end user ratings of one or more assets viewing history end user interaction with an initially viewed asset end user interaction e.g. likes dislikes saves volume played adding to playlist percentage of video watched sharing with friends additional requests for similar content etc. with one or more assets in the content graph and any combination or equivalents thereof.

Within database the assets are organized and categorized. For example one or more taxonomy structures may be applied to the assets. Further external data and or user behavior may be applied to and associated with each individual asset in the database . Within database tags labels keywords and or ratings may also be applied to each individual asset. Tags and keywords may be applied to aid in future search queries or classifications against database . Labels may be applied in a tiered structure to further organize the assets. For example a first tier label may be used to designate high level classification in subject matter and genre. A second tier label may be used to assign secondary and additional descriptive information to an asset. Ultimately within database the assets are organized and prepared for delivery to an end user via distribution module .

In the embodiment shown the assets may be further curated prior to presentation to an end user. For example the assets may be organized and ordered to meet an end user s entertainment needs. The organization and order of the asset distribution may be provided by processing the assets through one or more curation engines. For example in one embodiment assets are processed through a similarity metrics engine and or re ranking engine prior to distribution .

In similarity metrics engine various processing modules and functions may be applied to a group of assets. For example a group of assets may be ordered by inputs from a content graph a collaborative filtering module a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF module a trending analysis module and or any combination thereof. Each processing module or function may be applied to the group of assets to rank and or order the assets prior to distribution. For example content graph may assign a similarity metric based on the position of the asset on the one or more taxonomy structures applied to the asset s in database . In one embodiment content graph is a directed weighted graph wherein asset similarity is measured based on distance within the graph. In one embodiment assets can be selected for further analysis and or ordering based on the minimum graph distance between two or more assets. Collaborative filtering may assign a similarity metric based on input from one or more end users. TF IDF may assign a similarity metric based on the content context tags keywords or other factors associated with the asset s on the distribution platform. Trending analysis may assign a similarity metric based on user feedback user behavior or other metrics such as asset viewing history. As such similarity metrics engine is used to draw a group of content context relevant assets from database .

After the assets have been selected ranked and or ordered in similarity metrics engine the ranked and or ordered assets may be submitted to a re ranking engine . In one embodiment the re ranking engine may include inputs from human curation and or machine learned curation. The re ranking engine may also perform quality checks and re rank and or re order the assets depending at least in part on the quality of the asset. In one embodiment the re ranking engine modifies the subset of assets selected by similarity metric engine based on asset data user profile information and or additional constraints e.g. system data computational capabilities bit rate delivery etc. . In another embodiment the re ranking engine conducts a diversity test amongst the subset of selected assets. The diversity test or score may then be used to organize the subset of assets in a more user engaging manner. As such the asset program may factor in dissimilarity amongst otherwise similar assets.

In the embodiment shown assets from the original content pool are being processed through multiple filters to thereby deliver a program or playlist of the highest quality and most relevant assets to an end user via distribution module . The multiple filters include for example user and or service provider identification user behavior similarity metrics and or re ranking filters. Distribution module may include distribution channels e.g. a group specific channel creative programming channels asset libraries content sharing platform s and equivalents thereof.

In one embodiment distribution module receives input or feedback from an end user. The input feedback may be submitted to the curation and distribution system via user behavior input collaborative filtering and or trending analysis .

In one embodiment there is provided a method of providing a digital video content program including a plurality of continuously played video assets streamed over a digital content platform the method comprising a curating a plurality of video assets into a directed weighted content graph based on a content taxonomy b providing an application programming interface API configured to receive a programming request and an initially viewed video asset wherein the initially viewed video asset is amongst the plurality of video assets curated into the content graph a service provider computer system then c selecting a subset of video assets from the plurality of video assets based on a similarity measurement between the initially viewed video asset and one or more of the plurality of video assets wherein the subset of video assets include two or more video assets d ordering the subset of video assets into a digital video content program and e sending the digital video content program to an end user device via the API. The similarity measurement may include a calculation of minimum graph distance between the initially viewed video asset and one or more video assets in the content graph. The similarity measurement may include data obtained from the group consisting of a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF analysis a collaborative filtering analysis and a trending analysis. The API may be further configured to receive end user data. The end user data may be selected from the group consisting of a user search query a user rating of the initial asset system data viewing history user interaction with initial asset user interaction with one or more assets in the content graph and any combination thereof. The ordering step may be based in part on the end user data. The method may further comprise the service provider computer system f re ordering the digital video content program based on asset data user profile information and or additional constraints e.g. system data computational capabilities bit rate delivery etc. and g sending the re ordered digital video content program to the end user device via the API. The API may be further configured to receive aggregate user data for one or more assets in the content graph. The ordering step may be based in part on the aggregate user data. The method may further comprise the service provider computer system h calculating diversity between video assets in the subset of video assets and or g ordering or re ordering the digital video content program based on diversity between video assets.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of providing digital video content the method comprising a storing a content graph wherein a pool of video assets are cataloged within the content graph based on a content taxonomy b receiving a request for content from an end user device c obtaining end user behavioral information on a previously viewed video asset wherein the previously viewed video asset is amongst the cataloged video assets in the content graph d identifying and or selecting a subsequent video asset from the pool to be provided to the end user s device for viewing based in part on 1 the end user behavioral information and 2 a calculation of a graph distance on the content graph between the previously viewed video asset and one or more video assets in the pool and e delivering the subsequent video asset to the end user s device. The method may further comprise f obtaining end user system data. The identification of the subsequent video asset may be further based in part on a ranking of one or more video assets in the pool. The ranking may be based in part on factors selected from the group consisting of similarity metrics end user behavioral information collaborative filtering TF IDF and trending analysis. The ranking factors may be individually weighted. The identification of the subsequent video asset may be further based in part on a re ranking of a subset of the ranked video assets in the pool. The re ranking of the subset is based on weighted asset specific attributes of the subset of video assets. The re ranking of the subset may be based on diversity amongst assets in the subset.

In another embodiment there is provided a system for providing a digital video content program including a plurality of continuously played video assets streamed over a digital content platform comprising a means for receiving a programming request and an initially viewed video asset wherein the initially viewed video asset is amongst a plurality of video assets curated into a directed weighted content graph b means for calculating a similarity measurement between the initially viewed video asset and one or more of the plurality of video assets c means for selecting a subset of video assets from the plurality of video assets based on the similarity measurement wherein the subset of video assets include two or more video assets d means for ordering the subset of video assets into a digital video content program and e means for sending the digital video content program to an end user device. The system may further comprise f means for re ordering the digital video content program based on end user data g means for sending the re ordered digital video content program to the end user device h means for identifying diversity amongst video assets in the subset of video assets and or i means for ordering the subset of video assets based on diversity. The similarity measurement may include a calculation of minimum graph distance between the initially viewed video asset and one or more video assets in the content graph. The similarity measurement may include data obtained from the group consisting of a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF analysis a collaborative filtering analysis and a trending analysis. The subset of video assets may be ordered based on end user data and the end user data is selected from the group consisting of a user search query a user rating of the initial asset system data viewing history user interaction with initial asset user interaction with one or more assets in the content graph and any combination thereof. The subset of video assets may additionally be ordered based aggregate user data for one or more assets in the content graph.

In another embodiment there is provided systems and methods for providing digital content asset programs in the form of a dynamically created sequence of assets comprising a receiving a programming request with or without an initial asset wherein a first asset e.g. the initial asset is selected identified amongst a plurality of curated assets e.g. curated into a directed weighted content graph b calculating a similarity measurement between the first asset and one or more of the plurality of curated assets based on asset data e.g. asset data collected from the curation process asset creator and or aggregate user interaction with the asset c selecting a subset of assets from the plurality of curated assets based on the similarity measurement d ordering the subset of assets into an asset program or playlist and e sending the digital asset program to an end user device. The systems and methods may further comprise f re ordering the asset program before or after distribution based on asset data end user data and or computational capabilities and g sending the re ordered asset program to the end user device. The systems and methods may further comprise h identifying diversity amongst assets in the subset of assets and or i ordering the subset of assets based on diversity. The systems and methods may further comprise j obtaining end user interaction data after delivery of the asset program and k reiterating on or more of steps a j in real time to continuously and dynamically deliver asset programs or sequences of assets to the end user.

In one embodiment communication between the various parties and components of the present invention is accomplished over a network consisting of electronic devices connected either physically or wirelessly wherein digital information is transmitted from one device to another. Such devices e.g. end user devices and or servers may include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld device or PDA a cellular telephone a set top box an Internet appliance an Internet TV system a mobile device or tablet or systems equivalent thereto. Exemplary networks include a Local Area Network a Wide Area Network an organizational intranet the Internet or networks equivalent thereto. The functionality and system components of an exemplary computer and network are further explained in conjunction with below.

In one embodiment the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. For example is a schematic drawing of a computer system used to implement the methods presented above. Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a local or remote display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive flash memory device etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk flash memory device etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software instructions and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow computer software instructions and or data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows computer software instructions and or data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link a wireless communication link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer readable storage medium computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive removable storage units data transmitted via communications interface and or a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . These computer program products provide computer software instructions and or data to computer system . These computer program products also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from the computer program products software. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the presented methods. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where appropriate the processor associated components and equivalent systems and sub systems thus serve as means for performing selected operations and functions. Such means for performing selected operations and functions also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform said selected operations and functions.

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface hard drive communications interface or equivalents thereof. The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions and methods described herein.

In another embodiment the methods are implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions and methods described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s . In yet another embodiment the methods are implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Embodiments of the invention including any systems and methods described herein may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. and others. Further firmware software routines instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing firmware software routines instructions etc.

For example in one embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium for providing a digital video content program including a plurality of continuously played video assets streamed over a digital content platform comprising a directed weighted content graph having a plurality of video assets curated based on a content taxonomy and instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a receive a programming request and an initially viewed video asset wherein the initially viewed video asset is amongst the plurality of video assets curated into the content graph b calculate a similarity measurement between the initially viewed video asset and one or more of the plurality of video assets c select a subset of video assets from the plurality of video assets based on the similarity measurement wherein the subset of video assets include two or more video assets d order the subset of video assets into a digital video content program and e send the digital video content program to an end user device. The similarity measurement may include a calculation of minimum graph distance between the initially viewed video asset and one or more video assets in the content graph. The similarity measurement may include data obtained from the group consisting of a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF analysis a collaborative filtering analysis and a trending analysis. The subset of video assets may be ordered based on end user data. The end user data may be selected from the group consisting of a user search query a user rating of the initial asset system data viewing history user interaction with initial asset user interaction with one or more assets in the content graph and any combination thereof. The subset of video assets may alternatively be ordered based aggregate user data for one or more assets in the content graph. The computer readable storage medium may further comprise instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to f re order the digital video content program based on end user data and g send the re ordered digital video content program to the end user device.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application and to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention including equivalent structures components methods and means.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible. Further each system component and or method step presented should be considered a means for or step for performing the function described for said system component and or method step. As such any claim language directed to a means for or step for performing a recited function refers to the system component and or method step in the specification that performs the recited function as well as equivalents thereof.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

