---

title: Voltage level shifter circuit
abstract: Embodiments include apparatuses, methods, and systems for voltage level shifting a data signal between a low voltage domain and a high voltage domain. In embodiments, a voltage level shifter circuit may include adaptive keeper circuitry, enhanced interruptible supply circuitry, and/or capacitive boosting circuitry to reduce a minimum voltage of the low voltage domain that is supported by the voltage level shifter circuit. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09385722&OS=09385722&RS=09385722
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09385722
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141125
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number FA8650 13 3 7338 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the technical field of electronic circuits and more particularly to voltage level shifter circuits.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in the present disclosure and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

In integrated circuits different blocks of the circuit may operate at different supply voltages. Voltage level shifter circuits are used to convert digital input output I O signals between the blocks e.g. to convert the I O signals from a low supply voltage domain to a high supply voltage domain and vice versa .

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete actions or operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrases A and or B and A or B mean A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

As used herein the term circuitry may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable hardware components that provide the described functionality. As used herein computer implemented method may refer to any method executed by one or more processors a computer system having one or more processors a mobile device such as a smartphone which may include one or more processors a tablet a laptop computer a set top box a gaming console and so forth.

The description and figures may refer to transistors as MPx transistor to indicate that the transistor is a p type transistor or MNx transistor to indicate that the transistor is an n type transistor. The type of transistor is presented as an example and other embodiments may use other types of transistors to carry out similar functionality.

Various embodiments may include a voltage level shifter circuit to convert a data signal from a first voltage domain to a second voltage domain. The data signal may be a digital data signal that switches between a low voltage level to represent a first logic value e.g. logic 0 and a high voltage level to represent a second logic value e.g. logic 1 . In some embodiments the low voltage level may be a ground voltage and the high voltage level may be a positive voltage e.g. having a value based on a supply voltage used by the voltage domain . A voltage difference between the low voltage level and the high voltage level of the data signal may be greater for the second voltage domain than for the first voltage domain. Additionally the high supply voltage used by the second voltage domain VDD high VDDH may be greater than the low supply voltage used by the first voltage domain VDD low VDDL .

In various embodiments the voltage level shifter circuit described herein may include one or more components to reduce the minimum voltage Vmin of the low supply voltage VDDL at which the voltage level shifter circuit may operate e.g. across process voltage and temperature conditions . For example the voltage level shifter circuit may include adaptive keeper circuitry enhanced interruptible supply circuitry and or capacitive boosting circuitry to reduce the Vmin of the low supply voltage. The reduced Vmin may allow the circuit blocks operating in the first voltage domain to operate with a lower supply voltage thereby reducing power consumption.

In various embodiments the input data signal DIN may be received by the input terminal in the low voltage domain. The inverters may be coupled to a low voltage supply rail to receive a low supply voltage VDDL and the inverters may operate on the low supply voltage VDDL.

In various embodiments level shifter circuitry may include a data node Q that is driven to a current value of the input signal IN and a data bar node QB that is driven to the inverse of the current value of the input signal IN. The data bar node is coupled to the output terminal via an inverter to provide the output data signal DOUT. In other embodiments the output terminal may be coupled to the data node to receive the output data signal DOUT.

In various embodiments the level shifter circuitry may include a high supply voltage rail to receive a high supply voltage VDDH. Pull up transistors MP and MP may be coupled to the high supply voltage rail e.g. at their source terminals . An interruption transistor MP may be coupled between the pull up transistor MP and the data node . An interruption transistor MP may be coupled between the pull up transistor MP and the data bar node . A pull down transistor MN may be coupled between the data node and a ground voltage and a pull down transistor MN may be coupled between the data bar node and the ground voltage . The interruption transistor MP and the pull down transistor MN may receive the input signal IN at their respective gate terminals. The interruption transistor MP and the pull down transistor MN may receive the input bar signal INB at their respective gate terminals.

In various embodiments the adaptive keeper circuitry of circuit may include keeper transistors MN and MN and or firewall transistors MN and MN. In embodiments the drain terminal of the keeper transistor MN may be coupled to receive the input bar signal INB. The source terminal of the keeper transistor MN may be coupled to the data node and the gate terminal of the keeper transistor MN may be coupled to the data bar node . In embodiments the drain terminal of the keeper transistor MN may be coupled to receive the delayed input signal INd. The source terminal of the keeper transistor MN may be coupled to the data bar node and the gate terminal of the keeper transistor MN may be coupled to the data node .

Firewall transistor MN may be coupled between the keeper transistor MN and the ground voltage and firewall transistor MN may be coupled between the keeper transistor MN and the ground voltage . The gate terminals of the firewall transistors MN and MN may be coupled to one another at a firewall node . The firewall node may receive a firewall signal that has a value of logic low e.g. 0 Volts when the low voltage domain is active e.g. not power gated and may have a value of logic high when the low voltage domain is power gated e.g. powered off . When the low voltage domain is power gated the low supply voltage VDDL may be lowered and or shut off e.g. brought to 0 Volts . In various embodiments the firewall transistors MN and MN may be off e.g. not conducting when the firewall signal has a value of logic low.

In various embodiments when the input signal IN switches from a logic high level e.g. VDDL to a logic low level e.g. 0 Volts the pull down transistor MN may turn off and keeper transistor MN may turn on thereby charging the data node . At this point the data node may have a high resistance and the voltage at the gate terminal of the keeper transistor MN and the data bar node may have a value of VDDH. In various embodiments the high supply voltage VDDH may be greater than the sum of the low supply voltage VDDL and the threshold voltage VTHmn of the keeper transistor MN. Accordingly the data node may be charged to VDDL through the keeper transistor MN. Alternatively VDDH may be less than the sum of VDDL and VTHmn in which case the data node may be charged to a value of VDDH VTHmn.

Accordingly the gate to source voltage of the pull up transistor MP may be reduced thereby reducing the pull up strength of the pull up transistor MP e.g. the amount of current conducted by MP . Therefore the contention between the pull down transistor MN and the pull up transistor MP is mitigated at low VDDL allowing the pull down transistor MN to pull the data bar node to 0 Volts. When the transition of the data bar node from VDDH to 0 Volts is completed the keeper transistor MN may turn off and the data node may be charged to VDDH through the pull up transistor MP.

Similar contention reduction is provided by the keeper transistor MN when the input bar signal INB switches from logic high to logic low. The keeper transistor MN may assist the switching process by reducing contention between pull up transistor MP and pull down transistor MN similar to the contention reduction provided by keeper transistor MN for pull up transistor MP and pull down transistor MN. Since the drain terminal of the keeper transistor MN receives the delayed input signal INd the pull down transistor MN may turn off e.g. based on the input bar signal INB before the keeper transistor MN begins charging the data bar node .

In various embodiments an additional contention path may exist when the data bar node is pulled down and the pull up transistor MP turns on. While the keeper transistor MN provides VDDL to the data node the pull up transistor MP charges the data node to VDDH. This contention path ceases to exist when the data node completely toggles to 0 and the keeper transistor MN turns off. However this contention path may add delay to the circuit e.g. delay from the input data signal DIN to the output data signal DOUT .

Additionally a short circuit current may flow to the low voltage supply rail from the high voltage supply rail via the pull up transistor MP and the keeper transistor MN during the contention between the pull up transistor MP and the keeper transistor MN. However in some embodiments this short circuit current may be utilized by one or more devices e.g. logic devices operating in the low voltage domain. Accordingly the short circuit current may not be wasted.

In various embodiments the firewall transistors MN and MN and or the transistors of the inverter may be of relatively small size. The firewall transistors MN and MN may only be on when the low voltage domain is power gated and may not affect the delay of the circuit .

In various embodiments the level shifter circuitry of circuit may include enhanced interruptible supply circuitry that includes pull down transistors MN and MN. The source terminal of the pull down transistor MN may be coupled to an intermediate node N between the pull up transistor MP and the interruption transistor MP. The gate terminal of the pull down transistor MN may receive the input signal IN e.g. may be coupled to the gate terminal of the interruption transistor MP and or the gate terminal of the pull down transistor MN .

The source terminal of the pull down transistor MN may be coupled to an intermediate bar node NB between the pull up transistor MP and the interruption transistor MP. The gate terminal of the pull down transistor MN may receive the input bar signal INB e.g. may be coupled to the gate terminal of the interruption transistor MP and or the gate terminal of the pull down transistor MN . The drain terminals of the pull down transistors MN and MN may be coupled to a common ground voltage .

In various embodiments when the input signal IN makes a transition from 0 to VDDL the gate to source voltage of the interruption transistor MP reduces thereby reducing the strength of the pull up path provided by pull up transistor MP and interruption transistor MP. Accordingly the data node may be pulled down to 0 Volts through the pull down transistor MN. However as the value of VDDL is reduced the supply interruption provided by the interruption transistor MP is reduced and a contention path may exist between the pull up transistor MP and the pull down transistor MN.

In various embodiments the pull down transistor MN may provide additional supply interruption to further weaken the pull down path and allow a reduced value of VDDL to be used e.g. reduced Vmin . When the input signal IN makes a transition from 0 to VDDL a resistive path is formed between the pull down transistor MN and the pull up transistor MP. The resistive path reduces the voltage of the intermediate node N by an amount A e.g. from VDDH to VDDH . The reduction of the voltage of the intermediate node N may reduce the gate to source voltage of the interruption transistor MP thereby enhancing the supply interruption provided by the interruption transistor MP.

For example when VDDL is relatively low e.g. close to Vmin and the interruption transistor MP is in a sub threshold regime during a level transition even a small reduction in the voltage at the intermediate node N may significantly reduce the strength of the interruption transistor MP. In one non limiting example a of about 100 mV may provide about a 10 times reduction in pull up strength of the pull up path provided by the pull up transistor MP and the interruption transistor MP.

Similar supply interruption may be provided by the interruption transistor MP and pull down transistor MN to reduce the strength of the pull up path provided by the pull up transistor MP and the interruption transistor MP for the data bar node when the input bar signal INB transitions from 0 to VDDL.

Compared with circuit circuit may include additional interruption transistors MP and MP and additional pull down transistors MN and MN. Interruption transistor MP may be coupled between the pull up transistor MP and the interruption transistor MP e.g. a drain terminal of the interruption transistor MP may be coupled to the source terminal of the interruption transistor MP at a first intermediate node N and a source terminal of the interruption transistor MP may be coupled to a drain terminal of the pull up transistor MP at a second intermediate node N . The gate terminal of the pull down transistor MN and the gate terminal of the interruption transistor MP may receive the input signal IN. The source terminal of the pull down transistor MN may be coupled to the second intermediate node and the drain terminal of the pull down transistor MN may be coupled to the ground voltage .

The interruption transistor MP and pull down transistor MN may be coupled within circuit in a similar manner as shown in . For example the interruption transistor MP may be coupled between a first intermediate bar node NIB and a second intermediate bar node NB e.g. between the interruption transistor MP and the pull up transistor MP . The pull down transistor MN may be coupled between the second intermediate node and the ground voltage .

In various embodiments the interruption transistor MP and pull down transistor MN may provide further supply interruption to further weaken the pull down strength of the pull down path provided by pull up transistor MP and the interruption transistors MP and MP. Similarly the interruption transistor MP and pull down transistor MN may provide further supply interruption to further weaken the pull down strength of the pull down path provided by pull up transistor MP and interruption transistors MP and MP.

In various embodiments the input circuitry may include a plurality of inverters coupled in series with input terminal . The inverters may generate the input signal IN the input bar signal INB a delayed input signal IND and a delayed input bar signal INBD. In some embodiments the delayed input signal IND and the delayed input bar signal INBD may be delayed by a longer time period than the delayed input signal INd discussed above with respect to the circuit of .

In various embodiments the capacitive boosting circuitry of circuit may include p type transistors MPX MPX and n type transistor MNX coupled between an input node that receives the input signal IN and a boosted input node that receives a boosted input signal INX. The transistors MNX and MPX may receive the input signal at their drain terminals. Transistor MPX may be capacitively configured e.g. with its drain and source terminals coupled to one another along the conductive path between the input node and the boosted input node . Transistor MNX may receive the low supply voltage VDDL at its gate terminal and the gate terminals of transistors MPX and MPX may receive the delayed input signal IND.

In various embodiments the boosted input signal INX may be passed to the input of the level shifting circuitry e.g. to the interruption transistor MP and the pull down transistor MN . In various embodiments when the input signal IN has a value of VDDL the capacitive boosting circuitry may generate the boosted input signal INX with a higher voltage than VDDL.

When the input signal IN transitions from 0 to VDDL the delayed input signal IND has not yet transitioned and thus transistors MPX and MPX are on. The boosted input node may be charged to VDDL through transistor MPX as long as the delayed input signal IND remains at 0 Volts. Subsequently when the delayed input signal IND transitions from 0 to VDDL the rising voltage of the delayed input signal IND is passed to the boosted input node through the capacitively coupled transistor MPX thereby charging the boosted input signal INX to a voltage greater than VDDL.

In embodiments the transistor MNX may act as a diode e.g. when the input signal IN is VDDL . If the voltage of the boosted input signal INX drops below VDDL VTHmnx where VTHmnx is the threshold voltage of the transistor MNX transistor MNX may turn on to charge the boosted input node .

In various embodiments the higher voltage of the boosted input signal INX compared with the input signal IN may increase the pull down strength of the pull down transistor MN thereby reducing contention between the pull down transistor MN and the pull up transistor MP.

In various embodiments similar capacitive boosting may be provided by transistors MPX MPX and MNX when the input bar signal INB transitions from 0 to VDDL. The capacitively coupled transistor MPX may generate a boosted input bar signal INBX at boosted input node .

In some embodiments a voltage level shifter circuit may include any combination of adaptive keeper circuitry e.g. the adaptive keeper circuitry of circuit enhanced interruptible supply circuitry e.g. the enhanced interruptible supply circuitry of circuit or circuit and or capacitive boosting circuitry e.g. the capacitive boosting circuitry of circuit . The adaptive keeper circuitry enhanced interruptible supply circuitry and capacitive boosting circuitry may each provide a reduced minimum voltage Vmin e.g. the minimum voltage of the low supply voltage VDDL for the voltage level shifter circuit. However the adaptive keeper circuitry enhanced interruptible supply circuitry and capacitive boosting circuitry may each also contribute delay to the voltage level shifter circuit. Accordingly the combination and or configuration of the adaptive keeper circuitry enhanced interruptible supply circuitry and or capacitive boosting circuitry may be chosen based on the application.

For example illustrates a voltage level shifter circuit hereinafter circuit that includes adaptive keeper circuitry and enhanced interruptible supply circuitry in accordance with various embodiments. The adaptive keeper circuitry may include keeper transistors MN and MN and firewall transistors MN and MN similar to the adaptive keeper circuitry of circuit . The enhanced interruptible supply circuitry may include the pull down transistors MN and MN and the interruption transistors MP and MP similar to the enhanced interruptible supply circuitry of circuit .

In embodiments the circuit may further include input circuitry including a plurality of inverters . The input circuitry may receive the input data signal DIN from input terminal and may generate an input signal IN an input bar signal INB a first delayed input signal INd a first delayed input bar signal INBd a second delayed input signal IND and a second delayed input bar signal INBD. The second delayed input signal IND and second delayed input bar signal INBD may be delayed by a longer time period than the first delayed input signal INd and the first delayed input bar signal INBd respectively.

The first delayed input bar signal INBd may be passed to the drain terminal of the keeper transistor MN and the first delayed input signal INd may be passed to the drain terminal of the keeper transistor MN. The second delayed input signal IND may be passed to the gate terminals of the p type transistor MPX and the capacitively coupled transistor MPX. The second delayed input bar signal INBD may be passed to the gate terminals of the p type transistor MPX and the capacitively coupled transistor MPX. In some embodiments the input circuitry may include additional inverters coupled between inverter and inverter to provide a desired delay for the signals INd INBd IND and or INBD.

Additionally or alternatively the circuit may include enable transistors MPEN and MPEN to allow the capacitive boosting circuitry to be selectively enabled. A source terminal of enable transistor MPEN may be coupled to the boosted input node . A drain terminal of the enable transistor MPEN may be coupled to the inverter of input circuitry to receive the input signal IN. The gate terminal of the enable transistor MPEN may receive a second enable signal EN. A source terminal of enable transistor MPEN may be coupled to the boosted input bar node . A drain terminal of the enable transistor MPEN may be coupled to the inverter of input circuitry to receive the input bar signal INB. The gate terminal of the enable transistor MPEN may receive a second enable signal EN.

The second enable signal EN may turn off the enable transistors MPEN and MPEN to enable the capacitive boosting circuitry. The second enable signal EN may turn on the enable transistors MPEN and MPEN to disable the capacitive boosting circuitry. When the capacitive boosting circuitry is disabled the enable transistor MPEN may pass the input signal IN to the boosted input node and the enable transistor MPEN may pass the input bar signal INB to the boosted input bar node .

In various embodiments input circuitry of circuit may include a plurality of inverters coupled in series with the input terminal . In some embodiments the inverter of input circuitry may be a tri state inverter and may receive the second enable signal EN at a tri state input to selectively place the inverter in tri state mode when the capacitive boosting circuitry is disabled. When the inverter is in tri state mode the output of inverter may have a high impedance and may effectively shut off the outputs of inverters and . Accordingly the transistors MPX MPX MPX and MPX may be turned off.

In various embodiments the second stage may level shift the data signal Q and or data bar signal QB to generate an output data signal that is in the high voltage domain e.g. that fluctuates between 0 Volts and VDDH . The second stage may or may not include adaptive keeper circuitry enhanced interruptible supply circuitry and or capacitive boosting circuitry.

It will be apparent that embodiments of circuit may include any suitable number of diode connected transistors to generate the intermediate voltage VDDH. Additionally or alternatively the circuit may include more than two level shifter stages in some embodiments.

Depending on its applications computing device may include other components that may or may not be physically and electrically coupled to the PCB . These other components include but are not limited to memory controller volatile memory e.g. dynamic random access memory DRAM non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM flash memory storage device e.g. a hard disk drive HDD an I O controller a digital signal processor not shown a crypto processor not shown a graphics processor one or more antenna a display not shown a touch screen display a touch screen controller a battery an audio codec not shown a video codec not shown a global positioning system GPS device a compass an accelerometer not shown a gyroscope not shown a speaker a camera and a mass storage device such as hard disk drive a solid state drive compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD not shown and so forth. In various embodiments the processor may be integrated on the same die with other components to form a System on Chip SoC .

In some embodiments the one or more processor s flash memory and or storage device may include associated firmware not shown storing programming instructions configured to enable computing device in response to execution of the programming instructions by one or more processor s to practice all or selected aspects of the methods described herein. In various embodiments these aspects may additionally or alternatively be implemented using hardware separate from the one or more processor s flash memory or storage device .

In various embodiments one or more components of the computing device may include the circuit and or described herein. For example the circuit and or may be included in I O controller processor memory controller and or another component of computing device . In some embodiments the circuit and or may be included in the processor to allow circuitry that operates in a relatively low voltage domain to interface with circuitry that operates in a relatively high voltage domain. In embodiments the processor may include a plurality of circuits and or .

The communication chips may enable wired and or wireless communications for the transfer of data to and from the computing device . The term wireless and its derivatives may be used to describe circuits devices systems methods techniques communications channels etc. that may communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation through a non solid medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires although in some embodiments they might not. The communication chip may implement any of a number of wireless standards or protocols including but not limited to IEEE 702.20 Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A General Packet Radio Service GPRS Evolution Data Optimized Ev DO Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Evolved High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Bluetooth derivatives thereof as well as any other wireless protocols that are designated as 3G 4G 5G and beyond. The computing device may include a plurality of communication chips . For instance a first communication chip may be dedicated to shorter range wireless communications such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth and a second communication chip may be dedicated to longer range wireless communications such as GPS EDGE GPRS CDMA WiMAX LTE Ev DO and others.

In various implementations the computing device may be a laptop a netbook a notebook an ultrabook a smartphone a computing tablet a personal digital assistant PDA an ultra mobile PC a mobile phone a desktop computer a server a printer a scanner a monitor a set top box an entertainment control unit e.g. a gaming console or automotive entertainment unit a digital camera an appliance a portable music player or a digital video recorder. In further implementations the computing device may be any other electronic device that processes data.

Example 1 is a voltage level shifter circuit comprising an input node to receive an input signal in a first voltage domain a data node to hold a logic state of the input signal for generation of an output signal that corresponds to the input signal and is in a second voltage domain a data bar node to hold a logic state of an input bar signal that is the inverse of the input signal and a keeper transistor having a source terminal coupled to the data node a gate terminal coupled to the data bar node and a drain terminal to receive the input bar signal.

Example 2 is the circuit of Example 1 wherein the keeper transistor is a first keeper transistor and wherein the circuit further comprises a second keeper transistor having a source terminal coupled to the data bar node a gate terminal coupled to the data node and a drain terminal to receive a delayed version of the input signal.

Example 3 is the circuit of Example 2 further comprising a first firewall transistor coupled between the first keeper transistor and a ground terminal and a second firewall transistor coupled between the second keeper transistor and the ground terminal wherein a gate terminal of the second firewall transistor is coupled to a gate terminal of the first firewall transistor and wherein the gate terminals of the first and second firewall transistors are to receive a firewall signal to selectively drive the data node and the data bar node to 0 Volts when the first voltage domain is power gated.

Example 4 is the circuit of any one of Examples 1 to 3 further comprising a pull down transistor coupled between the data node and a ground terminal an interruption transistor coupled to the data node and a pull up transistor coupled between the interruption transistor and a supply rail the supply rail to receive a supply voltage.

Example 5 is the circuit of Example 4 wherein gate terminals of the interruption transistor and the pull down transistor are to receive the input signal and wherein a gate terminal of the pull up transistor is coupled to the data bar node.

Example 6 is the circuit of Example 5 wherein the pull down transistor is a first pull down transistor and wherein the circuit further comprises a second pull down transistor coupled between the ground terminal and an intermediate node that is between the pull up transistor and the interruption transistor wherein a gate terminal of the second pull down transistor is to receive the input signal.

Example 7 is the circuit of Example 6 wherein the interruption transistor is a first interruption transistor and wherein the circuit further comprises a second interruption transistor coupled between the first interruption transistor and the pull up transistor and a third pull down transistor coupled between the ground terminal and a second intermediate node that is between the pull up transistor and the second interruption transistor wherein a gate terminal of the third pull down transistor is to receive the input signal.

Example 8 is the circuit of Example 4 further comprising capacitive boosting circuitry coupled to the input node to pass a boosted input signal to the interruption transistor and the pull down transistor.

Example 9 is the circuit of Example 1 wherein the input node data node data bar node and keeper transistor are included in a first stage of the voltage level shifter circuit and wherein the voltage level shifter circuit further includes a second stage to receive the output signal of the first stage and generate an output signal of the second stage that is in a third voltage domain.

Example 10 is a voltage level shifter circuit comprising an input node to receive an input data signal associated with a first voltage domain a data node to hold a logic state of the input data signal for generation of an output signal that corresponds to the input signal and is in a second voltage domain that is higher than the first voltage domain a first pull down transistor coupled between the data node and a ground terminal a gate terminal of the pull down transistor to receive the input signal an interruption transistor coupled to the data node a gate terminal of the interruption transistor to receive the input signal a pull up transistor coupled between the interruption transistor and a supply rail the supply rail to receive a supply voltage associated with the second voltage domain and a second pull down transistor coupled between the ground terminal and an intermediate node that is between the pull up transistor and the interruption transistor wherein a gate terminal of the second pull down transistor is to receive the input signal.

Example 11 is the circuit of Example 10 wherein the interruption transistor is a first interruption transistor and wherein the circuit further comprises a second interruption transistor coupled between the first interruption transistor and the pull up transistor and a third pull down transistor coupled between the ground terminal and a second intermediate node that is between the pull up transistor and the second interruption transistor wherein a gate terminal of the third pull down transistor is to receive the input signal.

Example 12 is the circuit of Example 10 further comprising a data bar node to hold a logic state of an input bar signal that is the inverse of the input signal wherein a gate terminal of the pull up transistor is coupled to the data bar node.

Example 13 is the circuit of Example 12 further comprising a keeper transistor having a source terminal coupled to the data node a gate terminal coupled to the data bar node and a drain terminal to receive the input bar signal.

Example 14 is the circuit of Example 13 wherein the keeper transistor is a first keeper transistor and wherein the circuit further comprises a second keeper transistor having a source terminal coupled to the data bar node a gate terminal coupled to the data node and a drain terminal to receive a delayed version of the input signal.

Example 15 is the circuit of any one of Examples 10 to 14 further comprising capacitive boosting circuitry coupled to the input node to increase a voltage of the input data signal of at the data node above a supply voltage of the first voltage domain.

Example 16 is the circuit of Example 15 wherein the input node is a first input node and wherein the capacitive boosting circuitry includes a p type transistor coupled between a second input node and the first input node wherein the second input node is to receive the data signal in the first voltage domain and wherein a gate terminal of the first p type transistor to receive a delayed version of the data signal an n type transistor coupled between the first input node and the second input node a gate terminal of the n type transistor to receive a supply voltage associated with the first voltage domain and a capacitive coupled transistor coupled between the p type transistor and the first input node the capacitive coupled transistor to charge the first input node to generate a boosted data signal at the first input node.

Example 17 is the circuit of Example 11 further comprising an enable transistor coupled between the second pull down transistor and the ground terminal the gate terminal of the enable transistor to receive an enable signal to selectively enable an enhanced supply interruption mode of the circuit.

Example 18 is a system comprising a first input node to receive an input signal in a low voltage domain and capacitive boosting circuitry coupled between the first input node and a second input node the capacitive boosting circuitry comprising a p type transistor coupled between the first input node and the second input node a gate terminal of the first p type transistor to receive a delayed version of the input signal an n type transistor coupled between the first input node and the second input node a gate terminal of the n type transistor to receive a low supply voltage associated with the low voltage domain and a capacitive coupled transistor coupled between the p type transistor and the second input node the capacitive coupled transistor to charge the second input node to a voltage level greater than the low supply voltage to generate a boosted input signal. The system of Example 18 further comprises level shifting circuitry to receive the boosted input signal at the second input node and to generate an output signal that corresponds to the input signal and is in a high voltage domain having a higher voltage level than the low voltage domain.

Example 19 is the system of Example 18 wherein the p type transistor and the n type transistor are coupled in parallel with one another.

Example 20 is the system of Example 18 wherein a gate terminal of the capacitive coupled transistor is to receive the delayed version of the input signal.

Example 21 is the system of Example 18 wherein the level shifting circuitry includes an interruption transistor coupled to a data node that is to hold a logic state of the input signal wherein a gate terminal of the interruption transistor is coupled to the second input node a pull up transistor coupled between the interruption transistor and a supply rail the supply rail to receive a high supply voltage associated with the high voltage domain and a pull down transistor coupled between the ground terminal and an intermediate node that is between the pull up transistor and the interruption transistor wherein a gate terminal of the pull down transistor is coupled to the second input node.

Example 22 is the system of Example 21 wherein the level shifting circuitry further comprises a data node to hold a logic state of the input signal a data bar node to hold a logic state of an input bar signal that is the inverse of the input signal a keeper transistor having a source terminal coupled to the data node a gate terminal coupled to the data bar node and a drain terminal to receive the input bar signal.

Example 23 is the system of Example 18 further comprising an enable transistor coupled to the second input node the enable transistor to selectively pass the input signal to the second input node when the capacitive boosting circuitry is disabled.

Example 24 is the system of any one of Examples 18 to 23 further comprising a processor coupled to the level shifting circuitry the processor including a first circuit block to operate in the low voltage domain and a second circuit block to operate in the high voltage domain.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims.

Where the disclosure recites a or a first element or the equivalent thereof such disclosure includes one or more such elements neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements. Further ordinal indicators e.g. first second or third for identified elements are used to distinguish between the elements and do not indicate or imply a required or limited number of such elements nor do they indicate a particular position or order of such elements unless otherwise specifically stated.

