---

title: Evaluating device quality
abstract: Systems and methods for evaluating device quality are disclosed. Some implementations include receiving, operational parameters for a mobile device, where the operational parameters include data related to service disturbances in a plurality of areas of operational performance of the mobile device, computing, for each dimension of a plurality of dimensions, a curve indicative of a relationship between a device quality index (DQI) and operational parameters of the mobile device, where each dimension corresponds to a particular area of operational performance of the mobile device, identifying cliff points in each dimension of a multi-dimensional surface fitted to each computed curve, where each cliff point corresponds to a reduction in a user's quality of experience in a particular area of operational performance, and projecting the identified cliff points in each dimension of the multi-dimensional surface to determine a horizontal space in the multi-dimensional surface corresponding to a region of acceptable DQIs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219555&OS=09219555&RS=09219555
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09219555
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140408
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 248 191 entitled FORECASTING DEVICE RETURN RATE being filed concurrently herewith the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In recent years mobile device usage has significantly increased. Mobile devices such as smartphones are being designed and manufactured at a rapid rate to satisfy customer demand. Companies manufacturing mobile devices or wireless network providers marketing the mobile devices may use performance measurement to evaluate device quality. A key performance indicator KPI is a type of performance measurement. An organization may use KPIs to evaluate quality of a device. One approach to evaluate a device s quality is to manually test device KPIs using a quality testing tool. Then if certain tested KPIs pass respective acceptable KPI values the device is determined to have passed a quality test. Because each KPI may need to be separately evaluated such methods may not be efficient. More importantly such methods may not take into consideration all features indicative of a device s quality during a performance test. A combined impact from various device KPIs on device quality are also overlooked.

Thus the resulting performance test may not be comprehensive. Furthermore such methods are limited to evaluating device quality for mobile devices that have already been launched and are presently in use by customers.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The various implementations disclosed herein relate to evaluating device quality. The implementations provide a unified model and framework to evaluate device quality and can further provide a report describing the evaluated device quality. The report may include parameters considered in evaluating the device quality together with an indication of the device quality relative to pre determined or acceptable quality levels. For example the report may include an indication of whether the quality of the device is above par sub par or on par relative to pre determined or acceptable quality levels. The report may be displayed on a user interface of a computing device. The implementations can jointly incorporate independent device performance indicators in the unified model to comprehensively evaluate device performance. The implementations can be used to estimate device quality for both pre launch and post launch devices regardless of which original equipment manufacturer OEM manufactured the devices.

In some implementations one or more operational parameters for a mobile device are received at an analytics engine. The operational parameters can include data related to service disturbances in a plurality of areas of operational performance of the mobile device. The analytics engine can compute for each dimension of a plurality of dimensions a curve indicative of a relationship between a device quality index DQI of the mobile device for a particular dimension and operational parameters of the mobile device for the particular dimension. Each dimension of the plurality of dimensions can correspond to a particular area of operational performance of the mobile device.

The analytics engine then identifies cliff points in each dimension of a multi dimensional surface fitted to each computed curve. Each cliff point corresponds to a reduction in a user s quality of experience in a particular area of operational performance represented by a corresponding dimension. The reduction may be associated with the service disturbances. The analytics engine then projects the identified cliff points in each dimension of the multi dimensional surface to determine a horizontal space in the multi dimensional surface corresponding to a region of acceptable DQIs. The analytics engine may receive a DQI associated with the mobile device and determining whether the received DQI is within the region of the acceptable DQIs. When the received DQI is determined to be the region of the acceptable DQIs the analytics engine may determine that the mobile device is of acceptable quality. The analytics engine may generate based on the projection a device quality evaluation report for the plurality of areas of operational performance of the mobile device. In this way for example the disclosed implementations may evaluate device quality.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below.

The wireless mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard including the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a Long Term Evolution LTE standard or the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile stations can be capable of voice telephone communications through the network and communications that may be needed to evaluate device quality the exemplary devices and are capable of data communications through the particular type of network and the users thereof typically will have subscribed to data service through the network .

The network allows users of the mobile stations such as and and other mobile stations not shown to initiate and receive telephone calls to each other as well as through the public switched telephone network or PSTN and telephone stations connected to the PSTN. The network typically offers a variety of data services via the Internet such as downloads web browsing email etc. By way of example the drawing shows a laptop PC type user terminal as well as a server connected to the Internet and the data services for the mobile stations via the Internet may be with devices like those shown at and as well as with a variety of other types of devices or systems capable of data communications through various interconnected networks. The mobile stations and also can receive and execute applications written in various programming languages as discussed more later.

Mobile stations can take the form of portable handsets tablets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications including any application to assist in the device quality evaluation service can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile stations . For example a mobile station application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for mobile BREW based mobile station a Windows Mobile based mobile station Android I Phone Java Mobile or RIM based mobile station such as a BlackBerry or the like. Some of these types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as that serving mobile stations can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base stations BSs . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of the mobile stations when the mobile stations are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile stations that are served by the base station .

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the cloud at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile stations between the base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile stations communicate. The network can also include other elements that support functionality other than device to device media transfer services such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Specific elements of the network for carrying the voice and data traffic and for controlling various aspects of the calls or sessions through the network are omitted here form simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the mobile communications network and other networks e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the communications services and or application services provided through the network and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the network via one or more private IP type packet data networks sometimes referred to as an Intranet i.e. a private networks. Generally such systems are part of or connected for communication via the private network . A person skilled in the art however would recognize that systems outside of the private network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the network service provider as part of the overall network which communicate through the intranet type network include one or more analytics engine s and a related authentication server for the application service of server . In some implementations analytics engine may be an application server configured to execute any type of software application.

A mobile station communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server and or with analytics engine . If the mobile service carrier offers the device quality evaluation service the service may be hosted on a carrier operated analytics engine for communication via the networks and . Alternatively the device quality evaluation service may be provided by a separate entity alone or through agreements with the carrier in which case the service may be hosted on an application server such as server connected for communication via the networks and . Servers such as and may provide any of a variety of common application or service functions in support of or in addition to an application program running on the mobile station . However for purposes of further discussion we will focus on functions thereof in support of the device quality evaluation service. For a given service including the device quality evaluation service an application program within the mobile station may be considered as a client and the programming at or may be considered as the server application for the particular service. In some implementations the device quality evaluation service may operate entirely at server or .

To insure that the application service offered by analytics engine is available to only authorized devices users the provider of the application service also deploys an authentication server . The authentication server could be a separate physical server as shown or authentication server could be implemented as another program module running on the same hardware platform as the analytics engine . Essentially when the server application analytics engine in our example receives a service data request from a client application on a mobile station the server application provides appropriate information to the authentication server to allow the authentication application to authenticate the mobile station as outlined herein. Upon successful authentication the server informs the analytics engine which in turn provides access to the service via data communication through the various communication elements e.g. and of the network . A similar authentication function may be provided for the device quality evaluation service offered via the server either by the server if there is an appropriate arrangement between the carrier and the operator of server by a program on the server or via a separate authentication server not shown connected to the Internet .

In some implementations one or more operational parameters for mobile station are received at the analytics engine . The operational parameters can include data related to service disturbances in a plurality of areas of operational performance of the mobile station . The analytics engine can compute for each dimension of a plurality of dimensions a curve indicative of a non linear relationship between a DQI of the mobile station for a particular dimension and operational parameters of the mobile station for the particular dimension. Each dimension of the plurality of dimensions can correspond to a particular area of operational performance e.g. network performance browser performance signalling performance etc. of the mobile station . The analytics engine then identifies cliff points in each dimension of a multi dimensional surface fitted to each computed curve. Each cliff point corresponds to a reduction in a user s quality of experience in a particular area of operational performance represented by a corresponding dimension. The reduction may be associated with the service disturbances which can be represented by service quality indicators. The analytics engine then projects the identified cliff points in each dimension of the multi dimensional surface to determine a horizontal space in the multi dimensional surface corresponding to a region of acceptable DQIs. The analytics engine may receive a DQI associated with the mobile station and determining whether the received DQI is within the region of the acceptable DQIs. When the received DQI is determined to be the region of the acceptable DQIs the analytics engine may determine that the mobile station is of acceptable quality. When the received DQI is not determined to be the region of the acceptable DQIs the analytics engine may determine that the mobile station may not be of acceptable quality. In this way for example the disclosed implementations may evaluate device quality e.g. quality of mobile device . Exemplary computations by the analytics engine are discussed further and for example with reference to .

In some implementations the framework may be implemented by an organization such as a wireless network provider. In this example the wireless network provider may operate the framework to determine the quality of mobile devices that have been manufactured by certain manufacturers for customers of the wireless network provider. In other implementations the framework may be implemented by any other organization or company to evaluate quality of any device. In other words the framework is not limited to wireless network providers and mobile devices. Furthermore it is to be appreciated that one or more components illustrated in may be combined. Operations performed by one or more components may also be distributed across other components.

With reference to and in some implementations test plans may include but are not limited to data and associated guidelines on how to test the mobile station or any other device for quality. The test plans may include machine readable instructions as well as human readable instructions. For example the test plans may be read by a human tester or may be provided to a processor based computer to perform one or more tests on the mobile station . Such a test may be performed by a processor based computer to determine certain operational parameters and or key performance indicators of the mobile station . In some examples testing of the mobile station may be performed at OEM lab . The OEM lab may be a testing facility that is operated by a manufacturer of the mobile station . The OEM lab may be operated by one or more human testers and may include one or more testing stations and testing computers. The wireless network provider lab may be a testing facility similar to the OEM lab but may be operated by a wireless network provider that provides network services for the mobile station . OEM lab and wireless network provider lab may be electronically connected to network and or for communication with other components illustrated in . Simply stated the general purpose of the OEM lab and wireless network provider lab can be to perform one or more tests or measurements on the mobile station to determine operational parameters associated with the mobile station . It is to be appreciated that the implementations are not limited to a single mobile station but can operate to test and evaluate any number of mobile stations in sequence or in parallel.

In some implementations KPI logs may include but are not limited to data from field tester and OEM lab . KPI logs can include KPI data including but not limited to mean time between device failure mean time to device repair etc. and any other performance parameter. The field tester may test the mobile station in actual situations reflecting a real world use of the mobile station . KPI logs may also include data from wireless network provider lab . As discussed above data from OEM lab and the wireless network provider lab can include but are not limited to operational parameters e.g. network connectivity browser rendering quality signaling parameters etc. associated with the mobile station . In some implementations the data from the KPI logs and the supply chain logs can be retrieved or extracted by the ETL module . The ETL module may extract transform and load transformed data into data warehouse . Data transformations may include but are not limited to re formatting of the data into a common or open data format.

In some implementations ETL module may receive data as data files in a particular data format e.g. .drm file format . The ETL module may use a schema to extract data attributes from a .drm file then format the data transform the data and finally load or store the data to the data warehouse . The data warehouse may also include metadata associated with the data received from the ETL module . Metadata can specify properties of data. In this way the data warehouse may include but is not limited to transformed data field tester the OEM lab and the wireless network provider lab . The data from the data warehouse may be read by the analytics engine to evaluate quality of the mobile station using the exemplary methods discussed below. In some implementations data from the data warehouse may be provided by the data warehouse to the analytics engine . The metadata in the data warehouse can define data attributes as well as their relations. The metadata may include two types of metadata performance data attribute and a configuration data attribute. Performance data attributes may include but are not limited to device KPI name device KPI unit device KPI threshold max and limit value wireless network RF KPI name RF KPI unit RF KPI threshold max and limit value etc. Configuration data attributes may include but are not limited to device name OEM name device type hardware configuration parameters software parameters sales data returns data per cause code etc. Once data attributes are defined in a metadata file their relations can be defined. illustrates an exemplary interface to define the relations between data attributes in the metadata. The interface can be an easy to use web based interface. For example a user may use the project browser of the interface to select one or more performance data parameters e.g. KPIs and then use logical diagrams to configuration of mappings between both standard and proprietary data formats. Furthermore the interface can allow customizing conversion of data types. In addition a visualization of derived mappings between source and target formats can also be provided.

In some implementations the analytics engine includes one or more processors storage and memory to process one or more algorithms and statistical models to evaluate quality of the mobile station . The analytics engine may train and mine the data from ETL module . As an example a training set can be a set of data used to discover potentially predictive relationships. Training sets are used in artificial intelligence machine learning genetic programming intelligent systems and statistics. A training set can be implemented to build an analytical model while a test or validation set may be used to validate the analytical model that has been built. Data points in the training set may be excluded from the test validation set. Usually a dataset is divided into a training set and a validation set and or a test set in several iterations when creating an analytical model. In this way for example the analytics engine may determine models to evaluate device quality. The analytics engine can further provide a report describing the evaluated device quality. The report may include parameters considered in evaluating the device quality together with an indication of the device quality relative to pre determined or acceptable quality levels. For example the report may include an indication of whether the quality of the device is above par sub par or on par relative to pre determined or acceptable quality levels. The report may be displayed on a user interface of a computing device. The report may be used to modify aspects related to a supply chain or a manufacturing chain of the mobile station . For example when it is determined that the network performance of the mobile station is sub par then manufacturer of the mobile station may take actions needed to change certain network components of the mobile station during manufacturing or improve quality control for the network components. In another example when it is determined that the browser performance of the mobile station is sub par then the manufacturer may take actions needed to change the browser of the mobile station during software integration. Alternatively the manufacturer may take actions needed to improve browser testing during software integration.

In some implementations the device quality evaluation report may be automatically provided by the analytics engine to manufacturing and supply chain components to alter their processes and operations without human intervention. In this scenario the device quality evaluation report may include or may be replaced by instructions from the analytics engine to alter operation of the manufacturing and supply chain components. The analytics engine may continually monitor and adjust manufacturing and supply chain component operations based on evaluated device quality. For example a device that programs firmware for network components on the mobile station may be instructed by the analytics engine to update firmware settings to improve sub par network performance for the mobile station . Also for example a robotic arm integrating or soldering components on the mobile station may be instructed by the analytics engine to increase speed or rate of operation to meet a particular supply demand of the mobile station . In this way the analytics engine may increase efficiency of manufacturing and supply chain processes for the mobile station

In some implementations the device quality evaluation report may be automatically transmitted by the analytics engine to one or more computers operated at stores that sell market the mobile station to end users. In this scenario the device quality evaluation report may include human readable instructions to update software on particular devices alter certain hardware components prevent sale of certain devices identified by their model number s and any other instructions guidance related to devices sold by the stores. The device quality evaluation report may be used by store employees to anticipate issues that may be associated with a particular manufactured batch of the mobile station . The store employees may also use the reports to issue device recall requests to end users so that known issues with devices may be resolved before they are reported by the end users. In some implementations a new device quality evaluation report may be transmitted by the analytics engine to the one or more computers at pre determined intervals e.g. hourly daily weekly monthly etc. .

In some implementations open interfaces e.g. application programming interfaces APIs may be provided to vendors for reading writing data between the ETL module and the analytics engine and for visualizing analytics results between the analytics engine and GUI . In some implementations the wireless network provider may provide a third party vendor access to the analytics engine . In some implementations data may be processed incrementally by the analytics engine for instantaneous learning. Incremental learning is a machine learning paradigm where a learning process takes place whenever new example s emerge and adjusts what has been learned according to the new example s . Incremental learning differs from traditional machine learning in that incremental learning may not assume the availability of a sufficient training set before the learning process but the training examples appear over time. Based on this paradigm the algorithms utilized by the analytics engine may be automatically updated by re training the data processed by the analytics engine . In some implementations a dynamic sliding window method may be used to provide data from the ETL module to the analytics engine for algorithm training by the analytics engine . The dynamic sliding window may be used by the ETL module to incrementally provide for example operational parameters from the mobile station to the analytics engine . For example and with reference to the analytics engine may receive data incrementally from ETL module and data warehouse as well as data from an KPI tool or KPI logs . The analytics engine can incrementally auto learn and update algorithms and related formulae for mathematical models so that the models conform to latest data received from the ETL module .

One or more outputs of the analytics engine may be provided to the GUI for display. As an example the GUI may rendered on a mobile device display laptop display personal computer display etc. e.g. tablet computer smartphone etc. that may display data provided by the analytics engine . In some implementations the GUI can be used to visualize analytical results from analytics engine . As an example results from the analytics engine may be visualized as terms of charts animations tables and any other form of graphical rendering.

In some implementations GUI may display a data model algorithm s and inter component communications. The GUI may include a dashboard based to support multiple applications while providing a unified look and feel across all applications. The GUI may display reports in different formats e.g. .PDF .XLS etc. . The GUI may allow open APIs and objects for creation of custom report s by users. The GUI may keep the internal schema for the data warehouse hidden from users and provide GUI features that include but are not limited to icons grouping icon extensions and administration menu s . Overall the GUI can provide a consistent visual look and feel and user friendly navigation.

In some implementations the analytics engine can be implemented as a device analytics tool. Such a device analytics tool can be for example an extension of a Diagnostic Monitoring Tool to further evaluate device quality for any pre launched devices. Diagnostics can refer to a device s self diagnostic and reporting capability. Diagnostic or KPI tools can give a device tester or repair technician access to status of various device sub systems. Diagnostic tools can use a standardized digital communications port to provide real time data.

The analytics engine can be a tool to apply statistical modeling algorithms to study device quality evaluate device readiness and forecast device return rate etc. More statistical models can be embedded stored in the analytics engine based on business needs. The analytics engine can allow a device quality team to investigate device quality from several aspects including but not limited to device quality device readiness and device return rate. For example when evaluating device quality a cliff model can be developed by the analytics engine to comprehensively evaluate device quality in terms of a device quality index which reflects user s experience with device quality in high dimensional spaces. An exemplary device quality evaluation using a cliff model is discussed further below with respect to .

When evaluating device readiness a sigmoid model can be developed by the analytics engine to forecast the time to market for a given pre launched device. When evaluating device return rate a model such as a Local Weighted Scatter Plot Smoothing LOESS model can developed by the analytics engine to forecast potential device return rate for a given pre launched device. This model can also be leveraged by the analytics engine to forecast device return rate for a post launched device.

In some implementations the analytics engine supports the functionality of instantaneous data extraction from an KPI module e.g. KPI logs as well as instantaneous data transformation and loading. Instantaneous data processing in ETL module can refer to access to OBDM data library e.g. KPI logs for data extraction. Data obtained from the KPI logs may be a quasi instant step. The ETL module can detect new data that is uploaded to KPI logs . The ETL module can perform operations immediately once the new data file is detected in KPI logs . Appropriate outlier exclusion approaches may be implemented in the ETL module to exclude and convert outliers or data that may not conform to known formats in raw data files. In some implementations a wireless network provider may provide the outlier detection algorithms to a vendor that provides OBDM tools to collect data into KPI logs .

Supply chain database can store data related to device rate of return. In some implementations the wireless network provider can provide device returns data extracted from a logistics dashboard associated with the supply chain database in a .CSV file. Queries and scripts may be run by ETL module to extract raw data from the supply chain database and save the data as .CSV files. ETL module may accept and feed the data to the analytics engine for further processing.

In implementations market forecast data can provide the sales data per device per month. The market forecast data can be obtained from a pre existing database of forecasted sales data that may be generated by a marketing team. This dataset can be merged with the device returns data from the supply chain database . Granularity of load performance data can be seconds minutes or busy hour intervals that may indicate when a device supply chain is active in tasks related to device issue resolution. Returns data and sales data may have granularity of weeks or months.

In some implementations after data is processed by the ETL module but before it is passed to staging a step of outlier exclusion may be implemented by the ETL module . In some implementations an inter quartile range IQR algorithm may be implemented in the ETL module to exclude outliers. In descriptive statistics the interquartile range also called the midspread or middle fifty is a measure of statistical dispersion being equal to the difference between the upper and lower quartiles.

In some implementations the ETL module can define a unified target file. Each data attribute in metadata can be mapped by the ETL module to a given column in the target file. The target file is generated as the output file by the ETL module and then provided by the ETL module to the analytics engine for further data mining and data processing. This target file can be utilized by the analytics engine for statistical analysis e.g. statistical analysis of the mobile station . In some implementations the ETL module may need to split the target file into several files such as a performance file a configuration file etc. The target file may be split when the file size is larger than a specified threshold value. The performance file may include data related to performance of hardware e.g. memory components and software e.g. executing applications of the mobile station . The configuration file may include data associated with certain device settings e.g. user defined settings of the mobile station

As noted earlier device quality can be considered to be a comprehensive index to reflect a user s experience with device quality in terms of many dimensions. These dimensions can include different areas of device performance such as applications operating on the mobile station hardware performance software performance network performance signaling performance etc. of the mobile station

Device quality and key quality indicators KQI or analogous KPIs can present a relationship of exponential interdependency. By inserting measureable computable device KQI KPI values into an exponential formula derived by the analytics engine their impact on DQI can be assessed by the analytics engine . The sensitivity of the DQI can be more pronounced as the experienced quality increases. For example if DQI is very high a small service disturbance may significantly decrease the DQI. Also for example if DQI is already low a further service disturbance may not significantly decrease the DQI. As a result it may be determined that DQoE and KQI KPIs represent a relationship of exponential interdependency.

Furthermore it may be assumed that change of DQI to device key quality index DKQI or quality of service QoS may depend on the current level of DQoE e.g. alpha DQoE given a certain amount of change of the DKQI or QoS value or beta . Then based on example illustrations from it can be proved that DQI presents a negative exponential relationship to service quality disturbance. At an initial time service disturbance close to null point can be very small. For example jitter latency packet loss etc. can be imperceptible and invisible by device users. However once the disturbance traverses a particular threshold user experience can plunge sharply.

Referring to region illustrates a narrow variance band with stable and good device quality of experience relative to other quality of experience values or parameters These good quality of experience parameters may be specified as baseline or acceptable parameters by a manufacturer of the device. In region the device KPIs KQIs are very good in comparison to regions and . At point the DQoE starts to degrade. Region illustrates a wide variance band with good device quality of experience. In region the device KPIs KQIs are very good in comparison to the other regions and . At point the DQoE starts to degrade significantly. Accordingly region represents a region of poor DQoE. At point KPI value becomes unacceptable and DQoE degrades into an unacceptable region represented by region .

Referring to when DQoE is represented by a monotonic decrease function with an inflection point the 2order derivative of the KPI disturbance can be represented by zero. Generally the second derivative measures how the rate of change of a quantity is itself changing. The point at which the second derivative changes sign can be considered to be the inflection point. In calculus the first derivative can indicate whether a function is increasing or decreasing and by how much it is increasing or decreasing. The second derivative or the second order derivative of a function f is the derivative of the derivative of function f. Referring to when DQoE is represented by a non monotonic decrease with a stationary point the 1order derivative of the KPI disturbance can be represented by zero. Then if the 2order derivative of the KPI disturbance is less than zero then the stationary point represents a maximal extreme. However if the 2order derivative of the KPI disturbance is greater than zero then the stationary point represents a minimal extreme.

While the first derivative can tell us if the function is increasing or decreasing the second derivative tells us if the first derivative is increasing or decreasing. If the second derivative is positive then the first derivative is increasing so that the slope of the tangent line to the function is increasing. We see this phenomenon graphically as the curve of the graph being concave up that is shaped like a parabola open upward. Likewise if the second derivative is negative then the first derivative is decreasing so that the slope of the tangent line to the function is decreasing. Graphically we see this as the curve of the graph being concave down that is shaped like a parabola open downward.

Assume the change of DQoE to DKQI or QoS depends on the current level of DQoE alpha DQoE given a certain amount of change of the DKQI or QoS value beta .

Hence based on the exemplary relationships noted above in equations 1 through 3 DQI corresponding to DQoE presents a negative exponential relationship to service quality disturbance as illustrated in equation 4 . For example at the beginning of a service disturbance close to a null point a drop in DQI may be small or imperceptible. Particularly jitter latency packet loss etc. can imperceptible to device users. However once the service disturbance increases beyond a particular threshold user experience will likely plunge significantly. This relationship is captured by equation 4 .

In some implementations one or more operational parameters for mobile station are received at the analytics engine . The operational parameters can include data related to service disturbances in a plurality of areas of operational performance of the mobile station . The analytics engine can compute for each dimension of a plurality of dimensions a curve indicative of a relationship between a device quality index DQI of the mobile station for a particular dimension and operational parameters of the mobile station for the particular dimension. Each curve may be computed using exemplary equation 4 noted above. Each dimension of the plurality of dimensions can correspond to a particular area of operational performance of the mobile station . Overall the curves computed by the analytics engine represent an exponential multi dimensional surface. As discussed below in the multi dimensional surface the analytics engine can identify the cliff jumping spot in each dimension where users device quality experience may start to degrade.

The analytics engine then identifies cliff points in each dimension of a multi dimensional surface fitted to each computed curve. Each cliff point corresponds to a reduction in a user s quality of experience in a particular area of operational performance e.g. network performance browser performance signalling performance etc. represented by a corresponding dimension. The reduction may be associated with the service disturbances. Referring to these service disturbances can include but are not limited to application video disturbances web browsing disturbances network service quality disturbances transport disturbances and signaling disturbances. For example axis represents an application video disturbance. Cliff point is a DQI value at which the application video disturbance increases significantly. As a result the DQI drops significantly after cliff point resulting in a cliff like feature. Similar cliff points are observed for other areas of operational performance. For example cliff point is a DQI value at which the web browsing quality disturbance increases significantly. As a result the DQI drops significantly after cliff point resulting in a cliff like feature. The analytics engine then projects the identified cliff points in each dimension of the multi dimensional surface to determine a horizontal space in the multi dimensional surface corresponding to a region of acceptable DQIs. Thus the analytics engine expands a two dimensional relation to multi dimensional spaces. In this way the multi dimensional surface represents DQI as a comprehensive index to reflect users device quality experience in many dimensions.

In some implementations the analytics engine can cycle or traverse the horizontal space to be plotted by the projected points. Referring to this horizontal space can be considered to be a safety zone. As an example as long as the measured KPI values of the mobile station in each dimension stay in the scope of safety zone represented by the horizontal space we can conclude that the DQI of the mobile station is acceptable. Zone represents a set of measured values by a given test. The zone may be moveable. For example in another test the analytics engine may determine that the measured zone is moving towards signaling dimension. Such movement of the measured zone may indicate that the signaling attributes may be close to a quality threshold or a cliff jumping point beyond which the device quality of the mobile station may degrade. In some implementations this determination may be provided to the OEM of the mobile station for further analysis.

The analytics engine may receive a device quality index DQI associated with the mobile station and determine whether the received DQI is within the region of the acceptable DQIs. When the received DQI is determined to be the region of the acceptable DQIs the analytics engine may determine that the mobile station is of acceptable quality. When the received DQI is not determined to be the region of the acceptable DQIs the analytics engine may determine that the mobile station may not be of acceptable quality. In this way for example the disclosed implementations may evaluate device quality e.g. quality of mobile device and can further provide a report describing the evaluated device quality. The report may include parameters considered in evaluating the device quality together with an indication of the device quality relative to pre determined or acceptable quality levels. For example the report may include an indication of whether the quality of the device is above par sub par or on par relative to pre determined or acceptable quality levels. The report may be displayed on a user interface of a computing device. The report may be provided as a presentation spreadsheet text document or in any other format. The report may also include animations to illustrate progress of a particular device through a manufacturing cycle. The report may highlight certain performance parameters of the mobile station that may be greater or less than pre defined baseline parameters.

The disclosed implementations have several benefits. For example the analytics engine jointly incorporates all the independent device performance indicators in one single model to comprehensively evaluate device performance. The cliff model e.g. the cliff model of can be used by the analytics engine to quantitatively identify when and how the device quality of a given device e.g. the mobile station starts to degrade. The disclosed implementations determine a safety zone e.g. the zone in a device quality model. The safety zone represents an area where the quality of a given device e.g. the mobile station is acceptable. Cliff jumping spots computed by the analytics engine allow the analytics engine to identify where device quality starts to degrade. As a purely illustrative example cliff jumping spots may be determined by the analytics engine using 2partial differential equations. The analytics engine quantifies the relationship between device quality and device performance indicators. The analytics engine also addresses the joint relations among all device performance indicators and how the joint relation impacts device quality.

In this way the disclosed implementations bridge a technology gap by leveraging a comprehensive analytical methodology and system to evaluate device performance and quality. The algorithms processed by the analytics engine form a unique and novel model to evaluate device quality which can be expanded to other fields such as network quality service quality and any other quality testing domain. The analytics engine can compute generalized models which are universal to determine solutions for any quality evaluation related problem. Wireless network provide teams can leverage the analytics engine to estimate device quality and maturity for all the pre launched and post launched devices from all the OEMs. The disclosed implementations provide for a neutralized model that is OEM agnostic to identify device quality and performance and can be used to evaluate device quality for pre launched devices as well as post launch devices and further provide a report describing the evaluated device quality

The enhanced device quality evaluation service under consideration here may be used with touch screen type mobile stations as well as to non touch type mobile stations. Hence our simple example shows the mobile station MS as a non touch type mobile station and shows the mobile station MS as a touch screen type mobile station. Implementation of the on line device quality evaluation service may involve at least some execution of programming in the mobile stations as well as implementation of user input output functions and data communications through the network from the mobile stations.

Those skilled in the art presumably are familiar with the structure programming and operations of the various type of mobile stations. However for completeness it may be useful to consider the functional elements aspects of two exemplary mobile stations and at a high level.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary non touch type mobile station . Although the mobile station may be a smart phone or may be incorporated into another device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or the like for discussion purposes the illustration shows the mobile station is in the form of a handset. The handset embodiment of the mobile station functions as a normal digital wireless telephone station. For that function the station includes a microphone for audio signal input and a speaker for audio signal output. The microphone and speaker connect to voice coding and decoding circuitry vocoder . For a voice telephone call for example the vocoder provides two way conversion between analog audio signals representing speech or other audio and digital samples at a compressed bit rate compatible with the digital protocol of wireless telephone network communications or voice over packet Internet Protocol communications.

For digital wireless communications the handset also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . Today the handset would be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile station utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. The mobile station may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

The mobile station includes a display for displaying messages menus or the like call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers etc. including display of any information from the analytics engine . A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the graphical user interface GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones.

In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output including message input and message display functions the user interface elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections including any needed during operation of the analytics engine .

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the device quality evaluation procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as mobile directory number MDN and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The mobile station may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

As outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing parameters needed for device quality evaluation by the analytics engine .

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary touch screen type mobile station . Although possible configured somewhat differently at least logically a number of the elements of the exemplary touch screen type mobile station are similar to the elements of mobile station and are identified by like reference numbers in . For example the touch screen type mobile station includes a microphone speaker and vocoder for audio input and output functions much like in the earlier example. The mobile station also includes a at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications although the handset may include an additional digital or analog transceiver. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile station utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. As in the station the transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

As in the example of station a microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the device quality evaluation procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various program routines and mobile configuration settings. The mobile station may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Hence outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing parameters needed for device quality evaluation by the analytics engine .

In the example of the user interface elements included a display and a keypad. The mobile station may have a limited number of key but the user interface functions of the display and keypad are replaced by a touchscreen display arrangement. At a high level a touchscreen display is a device that displays information to a user and can detect occurrence and location of a touch on the area of the display. The touch may be an actual touch of the display device with a finger stylus or other object although at least some touchscreens can also sense when the object is in close proximity to the screen. Use of a touchscreen display as part of the user interface enables a user to interact directly with the information presented on the display.

Hence the exemplary mobile station includes a display which the microprocessor controls via a display driver to present visible outputs to the device user. The mobile station also includes a touch position sensor . The sensor is relatively transparent so that the user may view the information presented on the display . A sense circuit sensing signals from elements of the touch position sensor and detects occurrence and position of each touch of the screen formed by the display and sensor . The sense circuit provide touch position information to the microprocessor which can correlate that information to the information currently displayed via the display to determine the nature of user input via the screen.

The display and touch sensor and possibly one or more keys if included are the physical elements providing the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile station . The microphone and speaker may be used as additional user interface elements for audio input and output including with respect to some device quality evaluation related functions.

The structure and operation of the mobile stations and as outlined above were described to by way of example only.

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to device quality evaluation may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network operating as the analytics engine as shown in . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming so as to implement the device quality evaluation functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for device quality evaluation. The software code is executable by the general purpose computer that functions as the analytics engine and or that functions as a GUI rendering device. In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology for evaluating device quality in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs see . A mobile device type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith.

Hence aspects of the methods of evaluating device quality outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the wireless network provider into the computer platform that will be the analytics engine. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the analytics engine etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

